Welcome, everyone. Thank you for standing by. It is 10 a.m. on the West Coast, 11 a.m.
in Colorado, 1 p.m. on the East Coast, and we probably have people tuning in from around
the world waking up in the morning somewhere in Australia and South Africa. Today we're
going to be talking Duke Diamond. And let me unmute these guys. Go for it, Brian.
Yeah, what's up, guys? Excited to bring to you guys somebody that's near and dear to
a lot of our hearts here, especially everybody that's here in the studio, and that's Duke
Diamond. So we are behind the scenes. We are excited to put together a seed auction. So
we have a lot of variety of really kind of stuff that you would never have found in the
vault. I've definitely brought Sticky Lungs so that he can kind of talk in detail about
why these genetics are so unique. These are all the ones that I personally had that I've
put up. So all of this is going to Duke Diamond. The three of us are putting our name on that,
that we're going to be transparent and make sure that all of that money goes to him. And
we are proud to say that. So this is something that all of us has put together, and we're
excited to get things rolling.
All right. And who else is with us today? Driving somewhere near Ojai?
No, no. I'm all the way up in Washington. Come and live. High five.
Oh, shit. Damn.
He's a road warrior.
All right. Let me send the link to Brandon.
All right. Well, it says-
I feel like there's certain people that are real, recognized as real. And for most of us,
Duke Diamond is the epitome of that.
So do you guys want to maybe talk about Duke and Duke as a person, Duke as a breeder and-
Yeah, absolutely.
Why he stands out?
Yeah, take it away.
For me, I guess what stands out for me with Duke is that he just is a man of his word.
So if he says something, he can take it to the bank.
But he's a wealth of knowledge for the community.
Also, he's just very experienced in all the things, farming and fabrication and electrical,
and he's kind of a one-man band, doesn't really need anybody.
So it's kind of funny that all these people gravitate towards him, and he gives so much back
because he's so self-sufficient, but that's something we can all learn from him.
Let's talk more into when he goes into the work, when he's actually doing the work,
when he's bringing out these lines.
Yeah. He's got certain characteristics he's looking for with all his projects,
like most breeders. I've seen him scrap some stuff that took him a year to make
and just not mention it to anybody.
And I'm sure that was hard for him, considering the projects it was.
But only the best is what he's given everybody, it's only his best.
Kind of a perfectionist?
Yeah. He passed me a cut one time, a male, because I was begging him for a male.
And he said, well, this one might have these tendencies, it might do this,
that's why I'm not using it.
Otherwise, as they say these days, and I can't stand the phrase, checks all the boxes.
But yeah, I like a lot of his work. I'm more of a sativa guy myself,
so a lot of the stuff he did for the Brothers Groom, I thought was really interesting.
He did sativa leaning stuff, right?
Yeah.
And a lot of everything was like...
Yeah, we actually have some of the more rare indica stuff today that we have.
Yeah.
Shout out to NERD's genetics, Bobby.
Bobby.
Yeah. We really appreciate that for coming through and meeting up with me kind of last minute.
So we really appreciate that, sir.
Well, have a...
All those genetics here today as well.
So some of these are definitely from the vault.
I mean, there's nothing really, especially this pack right here.
So...
Handwritten.
Yeah.
Handwritten projects that were done between Duke when he was a partner with Brothers Groom.
So a lot of the fun little...
I haven't even gotten a look at them all.
I think there's an Apollo 11.
P75.
P75 cross. I like the Princess 75. I think...
Yeah, I talked to a lot about that.
You know what I was thinking about when you were talking is
I have this little thing that Duke told me a long time ago, and it's the six Ps.
Did he ever talk to you about the six Ps?
Prepping? Preparation?
Proper planning prevents piss poor performance.
And that's a really big deal in my house.
We kind of live by that rule.
I'm not great at planning.
I'm a lot very much at like, well, what's next? What's next?
But he really helped me a lot with that.
And I think that what I always appreciate about the genetics when you're talking about
perfectionism, right?
That he would just put a lot of work into everything that he was doing
for every project that he's been a part of.
A big thing that I appreciate about his genetics is
something that I do a lot with consulting for extraction
is worst case scenario runs, right?
Worst case scenarios.
Let's expose this to PM and see what it does.
I have a really close connection with this Rosetta Stone
that he would give me cuts of that when they were reading together.
And nothing, it could be surrounded by PM.
Didn't get it.
Didn't get it.
He would expose, I think, the genetics to certain elements that would
that would make a worst case scenario run.
Here's something I gave only water.
I had things from him, Andrew, who's going to call in Ravonna Farms,
that were like, this, you can't, we used his genetics and the dominion genetics in
a cultivation project that I was on in Northern California.
And there were certain things that you couldn't feed them
the same things that you fed everything else.
It just wanted water.
Did you have anything like that where it was like, nope, we don't want food.
We just want water.
We're cool.
I would always call it the poor man's weed with him because it was like, here, beat this up,
expose it to whatever you want.
And he would take those genetics and put those to the market because he's like, who's your
main audience, your basement bro hero, right?
Who has those problems?
Your basement bro hero.
Oh, I got PM here.
Like I'm from Ohio.
Originally, there's a lot of humidity.
Like you're going to get funky stuff going on or you're going to get, you know, out here,
you get the PM.
So it was exposed to all these different kinds of things.
This one has a certain type of terpene profile that it's not exactly attracting
mites or gnats in your garden.
And some was like, this is way too loud.
I'm going to have all the gnats, right?
So I appreciate the genetics and the due diligence of what.
Yeah.
If you guys are familiar, I mean, it kind of comes out of his way to let you know on
the back end, Hey, you know, this, you know, this sometimes on a, on a 10 scale, one to
10, you know, it's a six as far as mold.
And he's just letting you know those things.
So there's certain genetics that you're going to kind of grow and already have an eye for.
And I, that's the kind of stuff that I feel like a lot of us appreciate.
And that's definitely, you know, when Sticky Lungs and I would talk about Duke's work and
that kind of stuff.
I feel like that's what really always made him stand out is the guy, the guy's work is
legendary.
And the fact that there's not real hype to it.
He just lets us, I mean, you guys can see his packs.
It's not colored.
It's just black and white, but he's giving you the information that you literally want.
And that's the kind of stuff that I feel like is starting to get lost in some of the game.
It's not actually, you know, putting your name on something, but it's not really even
represented.
Well, I think we lost your audio.
Or, uh, Layton, can you hear them?
No, I can't.
I lost him.
This is just on.
All right.
So there you go.
Now you're back.
Yeah.
Sorry about that.
Yeah.
No, no, you got, you guys are back.
So just quickly, just quickly for people in the chat who don't know who Duke Diamond is,
he's a, uh, he's a breeder, uh, a really good person.
And he's currently in prison.
So the, when people are like, who's Duke Diamond and what's the fundraiser for?
That's the.
I want to, I want to clear that up, though.
He's not in prison.
He's in jail.
He's in county jail, which sometimes is worse.
It is worse.
Yeah.
And someone asked in what, in what state?
He's in Missouri.
Missouri.
Yeah.
Um, and so that's why, you know, a guy that would, you know, definitely helped all three
of us, the guy that would give his shirt off his back for a lot of us in the industry,
uh, you know, kind of like, um, went away and there's not at first, I don't feel like
there were a lot of people that really knew that myself included.
Um, so that is why we've kind of gotten together because he is such a humble dude.
Um, that I wanted to make sure that I, uh, went out of my way and, you know, got his
approval to even do this so that he knows that this is all done in love and there's
nothing other than that.
Um, that's why we were saying, we want to make sure that everybody knows that, um, all
of this, all of the proceeds, all of that is going straight to Duke and Duke's family.
So, um, we appreciate everything that, uh, we're going to raise today.
Uh, Leighton, have you ever worked with any of Duke's gear?
Am I back?
Yeah.
I know.
Yeah, you're back.
Unfortunately.
No, I have not, unfortunately, but I've heard wonderful things about the way he really,
uh, he's infectious, you know, he's looking for stuff that's, that, uh, works easy in
different people's different areas.
So, uh, it's just, I'm, I'm looking forward to hear more about him.
So I'm dying for the box stores.
Right.
Yeah.
I feel like Jane, you can probably start off with some backstory.
Sure.
First, uh, you know, you were there, uh, working with both of them, uh, kind of how things
started off.
Yeah.
Just in the garden, I would come, uh, friends, uh, friends with Rick and then, uh, met Duke,
um, through, yeah, just, uh, all a group of, of breeders, uh, ended up kind of as a hash
maker to be surrounded by genetics.
People's really fun.
Right.
Um, so surrounded by a lot of genetics people and, uh, just kind of would show up in the
garden and, uh, put in the work I was little.
So I had to go in and I was, I was in charge of staking in the middle of the garden, uh,
cause nobody could fit, fit in there.
Cause the plants were, um, really close together and we would make little jokes.
Like the more you stake, the more you make, and then like steak and steak, like the, the
meat and the, the, the steaks.
And I would learn a lot with, uh, Duke's not really somebody that isn't, he's maximum brevity.
Right.
Um, so I would just learn little things like the significance of staking, how to stake,
uh, the right ways to treat the plants, how to do brews, how to, you know, what kind of
sugars are good, you know, when to add molasses, um, little things that are just fundamentals
of what is feeding, what, when, where, um, and had, uh, the, the gifts that would, would
come from that garden of, oh, Hey, you want to try growing this at home?
You know, here's a cut of this, uh, here's something I'm working on.
Here's, you know, um, those little, little projects.
Never short of samples for his friends.
Yeah.
It's just so giving.
Samples, no.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Just so, uh, giving and just, oh, here's different ones.
And here, you know, this, this mom is this old, like, you know, granny and, and all of these
different, uh, plants and really kind of, for me, um, showed me a lot of significance of,
you know, when people say, oh, you, you can't have, uh, your, you can't have moms that are
this old.
And I would think that's, I don't know.
I feel like I saw a really healthy, um, plant in, in the garden that was like 30 years old
and fucking slaying still like every, every bit.
Um, and so that was a really big deal for me to just kind of.
From, from small to larger, right.
Be able to, um, look at the work over a couple of years of time, see different harvests and
then kind of dispel myths that I would hear in my head, right?
Like, okay, well, I know that that plant can be old.
Oh, I know that I don't have to replace the soil, um, every single time because,
every single time because he doesn't, he's just amending the soil.
So learning a lot about, um, no till without knowing it,
he's just teaching me shit like, oh, no buzzwords, just teaching you, just like,
here's why you do this.
Um, and, and I think that that's really, really important to have that, uh,
that, that understanding he, um, what I always felt like I was getting from that friendship
was that he helped me understand the why instead of you just do this just because like, that's
like the mark of a good teacher is I'm going to play off your learning style because I'm
super hands on.
You can't just, I can't, I can look at a diagram, but I need you to tell me what you're doing.
But I need to be like touching the pieces and parts to put, you know, like Ikea or something.
And in this way, um, I was really hands on learning about the plant and I, and I started
off, um, in extraction.
So in effect, this made me a better hash maker because I could understand the whole seed
through the process and then extraction.
But I started in extraction and so I was able to just work my way back to, um, having a
more rounded understanding that I just became like a really picky bitch with extractions
because I could see like, Oh, wait a minute to this person.
I started picking certain things up like, Oh, I can, this is neem oil.
Well, okay.
Here's when you would use neem oil.
It's not that there's anything wrong with it, but in, um,
we can talk about that on another day.
Yeah.
But like in a, in a hydrocarbon process, it will mess you up.
Right.
And you'll be like, well, it's organic and this and this, but understanding the why is
something that he really helped me a lot of.
And also just being around, Oh, I would never think to put those terpene profiles together
or, um, the certain types of things that he would, you know, I feel like an extraction,
you can look at something, well, all plants are the same if you're in the beginning of it.
Um, but being able to, uh, understand why to do a dab, do a dab, do a dab.
Oh, is it like a, like a wedding thing?
Right.
And you're like this, right?
Like kiss the bride or whatever.
But it's like, everybody does a dab right now.
Um, should we pull the audience?
Like do a lot of people know about Duke and his gear?
And I mean, I feel like they do, but
Well, we'll see.
I think most of them do.
I think some people are,
Oh, there's James Dean.
Are you going to call in James?
You want to call in?
He's gonna, he's gonna manage the chat.
Oh, cool.
All right.
That's somebody that's super down for Duke and, and the community in general.
Shout out James Bean.
Real seeds here now.
Good stuff.
So anyway, he helped me be a better hash maker by teaching me basics of cultivation
in a way that was, tricked me into learning.
Way to go.
Well, some of that, I know you brought,
You brought that?
What is it?
Sometimes.
Do you want to share a few stories, man?
Yeah.
And then I met Duke and, well, I didn't actually meet him until
2016, 2017.
But I knew him from the forums after Overgrow kind of expired.
Everybody jumped ship to different forums.
And Duke was at the forum that I frequented.
And just, you know, shot the breeze with him on the regular on there.
Then in 2006, I was supposed to meet up with him on the East coast at a festival.
That didn't happen.
So then in 2017, I saw he was working with the Brothers Grimm and I sent him a message
and he's like, man, it was actually my buddy sent him a message.
Said, do you remember Sticky Lungs?
He said, tell that hippie to get an Instagram, you know?
So I got an Instagram account.
And then we started hanging out in person after that, because he had known me for so
long, it was kind of like, I don't know, like we're old friends, you know?
Yeah.
Social media started bringing a lot of this.
Yeah.
I mean, we had known each other for a while, just never met in person.
So all the little tidbits he's dropped along the years have really helped me
mature as a grower.
And then I was farming in Georgia organically, moved out here to Colorado, met him.
And he tells me, why aren't you farming in your pots, you know?
So then that's when I went on to do living soil stuff.
But yeah, he's been very instrumental in my progression through cannabis.
And I'm sure he will be till the day, you know, we are very
candid about like, you know, a lot of that stuff, that's cranberry juice and shit back.
Oh, man, it's what is 21 fruit juice extract, whatever it is.
Yeah.
So that's something I feel like, was it like two years ago, we had him as our keynote speaker,
and Duke was up there with his time.
I think he gave us over an hour, kind of opening up the vault a little bit to his mind.
And the reason why he chooses to do certain things.
And I feel like at the end of the day, we all start to agree with that because
it's mother nature that's producing this kind of stuff.
And as long as we're managing that system and continuing to improve on that system,
that's in my opinion, why genetics matter so much, because then those,
that microbial world is going to be able to find that full cannabis expression through
these high end genetics.
And then that's where you might be able to make a name for yourself.
Or at least for me back in the day, I was just trying to grow better than my peers.
That was the best way to make money is to grow better weed than your friends.
So for a lot of you guys that are just starting to grow,
in my opinion, that's one of the easiest ways to get a leg up is to really start to understand
genetics.
And then if you're taking that to the next level and using the microbial world,
where the soil food web is your focus, that's already next level and you guys have just begun.
So, Blayton, you want to add to any of that, buddy?
Oh, yeah.
That's what it's all about is the, really providing the basics for this plant to express
itself.
So that was really good advice to the people listening is, you know, if you start with
really good stuff, good things are going to come.
Quality in equals quality out all the way here.
You hear that?
Yeah, that's, yeah, I'm watching that.
I'm watching that.
Am I allowed to chime in on one of these things?
Couch tourist?
How can you ask for money and not give a backstory?
Can I, like, am I allowed to just, sorry for, is it okay?
Yes.
Okay, cool.
I'm like, can I just, yeah, I'm like, can I just,
I don't really read those.
They're just so,
Oh, I'm reading them.
I think they're really fun.
Um, so, uh, you know, it's like one of those, if you know, you know,
it's fair to ask that.
Yeah, that, that is fair to ask.
So the, I'm not sure if you were on in the beginning, but Brian was the same that,
that Duke is down and, and we're raising funds for him with him and his partners of dominion
and seed seeds by auctioning some seeds to take care of him, his family, wife and children
while he is down.
And I know I'm going to do my dad soon.
Hang on.
And, um, and, uh, he, he is, has been just so influential in our lives.
And actually something that I posted on my Instagram was, uh, he helped me out in a time
where I really needed it.
Uh, and obviously certain information, when you have an ongoing case, I would recommend
that we just keep things really positive.
Um, and so for me, I would say that he helped me in a time that I really needed it.
Uh, he helped me when I was going through divorce, um, with two small children and,
uh, made sure that I had a nice Christmas for my children.
And if you help a mama with that friends forever, um, besides teaching me things that a have
literally helped me do a better job at my job.
Um, but it showed me, uh, you know, I, I moved out here from Ohio, um, six years ago and
went through a divorce right away and, uh, became just again, uh, uh, meshed in, in extraction,
working my way backwards, uh, surrounded by genetic strengths.
And he was there just in a time where he helped me take care of my kids for Christmas.
And I feel like that was a time that, uh, nobody else was coming to save me.
Right.
And that was my first Christmas as a, as like a single mom to, uh, moving with, with my
husband at the time and married nearly 13 years.
And I was really alone, uh, with, with my kids, um, and being able to, uh, take care
of them.
I kind of had to put some of my eggs in one basket and was working on a project and, uh,
took a wing and a prayer to Emerald cup.
And, uh, you know, you have these, um, you have these ideas and expectations about where
you think things are going to go and, uh, where they went and where they didn't go and
where they didn't go was a whole bunch of money in my bank account to take care of my,
my kids for Christmas.
And, uh, he just helped out in a way that, uh, made sure that I would take care of them.
And for that, I'm forever grateful.
And all of the other people that are participating, that are watching, that are calling, that
are doing all the things that they're doing all kind of have a story like that.
And for some people, that's not for everybody to know.
Um, but for me, I, I don't feel ashamed to say like, Hey, I, I needed help.
And, uh, I didn't ask for it, but he knew that I needed it.
And I think that that is like a Duke way of like the same thing that we're doing right
now.
He's not asking for this help.
Not at all.
Like we're, we are stubborn as fuck helping him, um, on our own, uh, because of situations
like that.
Like I didn't ask for help, but he knew I needed it.
So like, he's not asking for help, but we know this fam needs it.
So that's why.
Yeah.
So, um, I guess, do we want to kind of get into some of the, uh, start off with some
of this stuff?
Cause we actually have a lot of seeds.
I think maybe give kind of like a quick, like, here's some of the things we have, and then
we can pick.
So people kind of know what, what's possible.
And then we'll start with one and you can talk about that.
Yeah.
So, um, and that's why a sticky launch is in studio as well.
Cause, um, this guy should be like the sommelier of cannabis, especially of genetics.
So for a lot of you guys that don't know, sticky lungs, please go follow him, check
them out.
Uh, this guy is a low key OG, uh, somebody that I really, really respect.
Um, so we're gonna, I'm gonna let him talk about all of these really, uh, vault type
genetics.
Um, but we also have the pine bomb.
So that's the sensei Derby poison cross with the screaming Eagle.
Uh, we have the shine apple.
So that's the Virginia, Virginia beach, Afghani cross with the airborne G 13.
And that is, uh, the airborne 13 is crossed with hash plant and the Afghani.
Uh, then we have the burnout chem, which is that chem dog D cross with that dominion skunk.
Um, this was going, in my opinion, I thought it was going to be really sought after and
then COVID hit.
Uh, so these have actually just been chilling with me for months and months now.
So I'm happy to give all of this to Duke and I'm excited that we're able to all come together
as a community and put this together.
And then the last, uh, beginning style is the Delta blues, which is the G 13 hash plant,
uh, also crossed with the screaming Eagle.
Let's see what we got here.
Some fun stuff.
I started the fatty packs from nerd nerds genetics.
He donated some, uh, gorilla goo, gorilla, gorilla.
Yeah.
I can't say it real, but it's gorilla glue for GG for whatever you call it these days.
Tom sister skunk.
You guys remember the sister skunk?
It was a Kim sister was the mother.
And then I believe it was the, uh, skelly hash plant skunk.
That was the father to that.
So that's a 50 back at that we have coming up.
I would say that's probably in the like medium to rare section.
Oh yeah.
Cause the gorilla gorilla goo is a nerds cross crossed with all this.
So yeah, I would say that it's, um, yeah, there's 50 in there.
Right.
This is definitely from the vault.
So thank you Robbie for that one.
Shout out to nerd genetics.
Hey, thank you.
We've got some, uh, green Avenger here.
That was a, uh, I guess the tribute was so cool.
I believe for kind of like holding down the Apollo 13 thing with the vortex line.
Oh yeah.
So, uh, it doesn't say on here, but that's a vortex crosses in it.
Yeah.
I believe it was, um, I'm blanking right now, but it was a
green adventure is a Apollo 11 and vortex or no, no.
What are their team?
Something we'll look it up in a second, but that one definitely intrigues me.
I like the vortex.
Yeah.
The vortex used to pay the mortgage for sure.
It did.
Anybody that knew me in Oregon knew I liked the vortex.
It was the day in there for most of my crew smoking.
If you wanted everybody to leave your house.
So that's in the green Avenger.
Really?
So rare, rare packs that really haven't seen in a long time.
Yeah.
Okay.
Oh, there we go.
Look at that.
Look at our model.
Okay.
We've got some, uh, grim to cut.
It was a fatty Indica that I remember being described as it, like it held itself,
held its own weight very well.
So there's a, how many seeds of this in this pack?
Uh, there's seven in that one, seven in this pack.
Pretty rare.
The grim to cut.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
This was something that Duke did for the brothers Graham under that label.
You know, we all know he did a lot of good work for her.
So, so we've got some of that up here.
Yeah.
That's a good one.
See, we got the hash master, which was also one of the Indica offerings through the brothers
Graham.
I think there's like eight seeds in there that.
Yeah.
Like the rare Indica is like you said, because that wasn't their thing.
There was speed divots.
Yup.
The Munson, which we all know is the Northern lights, five times the dominion skunk.
I co-signed that one.
I liked that one a lot.
You like this one?
Absolutely.
Yeah.
The Munson.
Comes to me.
I worked for runs that.
Yeah.
There's a lot of, uh, can find some fun stuff.
I think in that one.
Yeah.
That's the P 75.
I don't know if you guys know what P 75 is.
It was a predecessor to Cinderella 99 and that's times the killer queen.
That's a good one.
I grew that in my backyard.
I know a lot of people who grew this.
This was a freebie to friends that he was giving out back in the day.
Yeah.
So if you had some of these, you're probably watching this show.
There's a star on it.
I don't know if they could see that.
There's 12 in that pack.
Original hand model.
Thanks.
Yeah, that's a good one.
There we go.
Uh, flip it.
No, no, no, no.
We're seeing the words backwards.
Oh, yeah.
Now you got it right.
You got it right.
Sorry.
You got it right.
Now it's backwards.
Now it's backwards.
There we go.
Now it's good.
The trick.
Well, as you guys can see, they're basically handwritten.
Yeah, that's almost everything's handwritten.
That's these are the Duke like gift packs, if you will.
If you, uh, if you ever met Duke at one of the shows or the expos and you got to talk to him,
you hit it off with him.
Maybe you had something in common.
He'd throw you a pack of seeds, you know, maybe that was how it went.
Maybe you came to him, you didn't know him and you
threw a little money at him because you're talking to him and then he comes back at you.
Maybe you were a veteran.
So it goes on and on.
But I got some of this, but actually this is Apollo 11.
Somebody's mentioning overgrown.
Sorry, I got some Apollo 11 times P 75 seeds here.
123456 packs of those Sativa lovers.
You're not going to want to sleep on this one.
This is what Duke called the space oddity when I was growing it.
There's some of this on my Instagram.
Those are super Sativas.
So this is sticky longs cosigns right here.
Yeah, I like that one.
It's going to be some, uh, you guys know how he runs.
Yeah, that was stellar.
Super stellar.
I like nothing impresses Mr. Mr. Sticky lungs.
So when something sticks out.
All right, then one of the last gift packs that would Duke signed is the, uh,
or not signed, but wrote the Dominion seed company times the swamp boys figure four.
Now I personally don't remember what this one is.
I know it was the triangle Kush mail that they were working with.
What is it?
The figure four.
Do you remember that?
Uh, there's 12 seeds in that one.
All right.
Yeah.
12 seeds in that pack.
So what was that, Peter?
Was that a question?
No, that was just James, uh, giving people some background.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Because to be honest, guys, there's some ridiculous stuff.
Some of the DMS that I get, like Duke didn't commit all of those things that you're talking
about.
Um, I assure you that he is coming out soon.
Um, so if that, if that did occur, then obviously that he wouldn't be getting out.
Right.
So a lot of that stuff is nonsense is noise.
Um, we don't even really want to address that.
And so I appreciate you James for taking the time to address probably some of the silly
stuff with Duke is coming home.
That's the whole reason why we're putting this together, uh, is because he's, uh, doing
some things behind the scenes.
And we want to make sure that when he comes out, that he's, uh, off and running with,
uh, you know, the things and the plans that he's been putting up with.
And I feel like the rest of us, we've all been kind of cooped up in this 2020.
So it's going to be exciting to see what a lot of us in the cannabis community are
going to do for 2021.
Yeah.
Okay.
So I was, I was waiting for us to hit, uh, 300 people and, uh, we just passed it.
So I think we can, uh, get started.
Yeah.
And just, just to give people, uh, kind of the background, this is going to be us only.
Correct.
So there's probably a lot of disappointment in the chat, but, uh, these guys want to keep
it simple and make sure, um, We don't want to cause a bunch of headaches for everybody
involved.
So unfortunately we're going to keep it like that.
Um, if this is successful in that kind of thing, then, you know, who knows?
But, uh, yeah, we want to just make this as smooth as possible.
Yeah.
Chris Guerrero hit me up.
Sorry.
This is, uh, Eddie, Eddie, this is an Eddie Lepp related.
But, uh, I I've wanted to do something.
I just need people who are local to him who can help.
Cause I don't want to be all alone trying to, from LA doing something.
Uh, so if Eddie's friends can step up and, you know, I'm happy to open the airwaves,
uh, and raise a lot of money.
I was thinking of bringing some artists in since he's big on art, uh, to auction off
art and, uh, prints and stuff like that.
Doesn't always have to just be seeds with breeders, but, uh, anyway, back to the.
Task at hand.
Okay.
So what's first, uh, we're going to start off with the shine apple, which is the Virginia
beach, Afghani cross with the airborne G 13.
Um, and that is the hash plant cross with the Afghani.
Have you grown that sticky?
Shine apple.
Yeah, I've seen it grown.
Um, it's kind of got that, like that accurate, almost lemony smell when it's wet.
And then when it dries, it kind of cures up to a sweeter.
No pineapple.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's it.
Tart apple type smell.
Tart green.
Yeah.
Like granny.
Yeah, exactly.
That's why I like, uh, his names aren't anything that it has to be technically like,
yeah.
Kind of describes what he was going for.
So what do we want to start this one?
Um, so Peter, you're more of a pro at this kind of stuff.
Yeah.
Uh, we just want to do what I want people to walk away feeling that they, you know,
did some good.
And we also want to make sure that, uh, you know, we're here raising money for Duke.
So if you guys can't, uh, purchase these today or anything like that, all we ask is if you
could potentially send $5, uh, something like that, something easy, just so that we can,
uh, begin to build a little bit of a nest egg for, uh, Mr. Duke Diamond.
All right.
Well, I was going to say start at 150, but we already have, oh, wow.
We already have a hundred and then we already have a 300.
300.
We're past the 150.
Wow.
Thank you.
That's awesome.
So people are, so, uh, Peter, do you want to be the auctioneer at that one?
Yeah.
Well, all you guys just keep talking, waxing poetic about it.
Lemonhead.
That's what I was going to say for me.
I had more that's the, I had a, mine was more pineappley and not appley.
Yeah.
It wasn't apple.
It wasn't mine was a little more.
It was, had that higher citrus nose to it and not from the airborne.
Yeah.
So that's good.
All right.
So we have boom, boom at 300 and boom, boom.
Uh, just making sure you're in the U S uh, that's the one caveat here.
Sour apple scent.
That's, uh, those were the females that I definitely had new grower.
So, uh, really quick, um, Peter, can we, is drew backstage with you?
Can we put him on?
Is that okay?
Cause we're going to lose signal with them soon.
Sure.
Is that right?
Andrew Ravonna farms.
Is he, it says that he's he's backstage.
So do you have access to put him on?
Uh, did you send him the link?
Yeah.
He said, it says, um, that's weird.
Cause I don't see, ask him to quit and, uh, jump or hit the link again.
Cause I don't see him.
Okay.
So as a boom, boom, you're in Maine.
Oh, cool.
Okay.
All right.
So, uh, oh, I was just in Maine.
Boom, boom.
We'll take care of shipping all that.
But, uh, boom, boom.
The easiest way, man, if you could just send me a DM or, uh,
One hour, we still got, Oh, I'm sorry.
Oh, boom, boom, boom.
Doesn't boom.
Got to win it.
How many are there?
Cannabis Maximus is at 15.
We have, uh, we have six packs of shine apple.
So we might be okay that everybody would, you know, we would pick those top six.
Is that how that works?
I'm not hip to that.
We could do that.
Um, I mean, usually it'd be like two packs and then, you know, if, if boom, boom did 300
cannabis, Maximus did three 15, we give it to both of them for sure.
Uh, why don't, why don't we hold, why don't we hold off?
Okay.
Four packs.
Do the two at 300.
I mean, unless someone else steps in, let's give it one more minute.
And then the top two.
We'll each walk away with a top two, top two.
So currently we have, we have boom, boom and cannabis Maximus fighting it out.
Ken cap, Ken cat.
We don't even have other bids.
We do.
We really appreciate this guys.
I feel like this is a community and a cause that I feel like people can get behind because
if you do, you know, if you don't know who Duke is, then I encourage you to watch a few
YouTube videos.
True.
Scallywag week, Scallywag.
Can you bump it up?
Ah, look at that.
We got three 25.
Okay.
So now we got three.
All right.
So we'll, as long as we're not going to get a lot of people, we're going to be fine.
As long as we're above 300, uh, Jonathan.
All right.
So now we got four.
Okay.
So 350.
So basically if, if, if the lowest bid is above 300, we'll give it to, so now we have
four people above 300.
If you can go 300 or greater, we'll make it five packs.
But if we drop everything down to 100, then we raise less money than if we did four at
300.
I'm not following.
Am I making sense?
No.
Okay.
Probably you, maybe everybody else.
I'm not, I just want to really quick though, go back.
I, um, see, and I'm watching this little feed and there's a few people talking about overgrow.
Yes.
That was a very big deal to Duke.
I remember that, uh, being on the old, uh, overgrowth threads and, uh, those were all
learned to grow the real actual mission of populating the earth with cannabis, um, and
all things.
Uh, so yes, yes.
Overgrow.
Um, and go, you guys for bringing that up.
All right.
So, uh, how do we do the, are you doing the gavel here, Peter?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm also answering questions in the chat.
Uh, so big money is at three 55.
So good God, I need someone to help me with.
So we got big money.
All right.
So how about 10 more seconds?
Yeah, we probably need a timer.
Yeah.
Well, we'll do the 10 seconds up.
Jonathan Wilhelm, three 65.
So I think we have five people who are going to pick packs to Scallywag.
Are you in the three hundreds?
We'll give Scallywag one second to.
Okay.
All right.
We'll call it there.
All right.
So we got, if someone, do you, do you guys have someone off camera who can write this
down?
Okay.
So we got Jonathan Wilhelm.
Uh, we got, and then I'll tell you guys in a second, uh, Jonathan Wilhelm, big money,
seven 10.
Uh, we got Franklin Rizzo.
We got at a three 25.
So also tell me what the lowest number is and everybody will get it for that.
Cannabis Maximus at three 15.
Uh, Scallywag, your a hundred dollars does not make it.
Almost.
Um, and sorry, did we already say boom, boom?
No, we hadn't, but.
All right.
Boom, boom at 300.
And they can send.
Okay.
So, so how many people is that?
Uh, we have five.
Okay.
So those five people, if you're all in the U S the lowest price was 300.
So everybody gets it for three.
And then if you guys, and I'll post this in the, um, chat too, but if you can, so you
got two options, Venmo and PayPal.
This is now that's not the, all right, there's the Venmo.
I'll also type this in.
Uh, but give me, there's only one of me.
Um, so I'll type in the Venmo Venmo.
And if you don't have Venmo, but you have PayPal, uh, that's the PayPal.
And let me type that in.
And we do money orders, right?
Somebody can send a money or what?
I'm a cashier.
If you're in Colorado, you could drop it off.
By the way, you guys must have a warm garage because you're all in t-shirts.
Yeah, it's, uh, we're feeling good.
We got heaters going.
Uh, this, this hopefully, uh, comes across as well thought out today because our goal
is really to help Duke.
And so we really appreciate you guys starting off with a bang.
Thank you so much.
Yes, Mr.
Lincoln.
I know we could do things differently, but we fly by the seat of our pants and pulled
this together last minute.
And we're not very prepared.
So anyway, we just raised five.
Yeah, we just raised 1500 bucks on the first go around, right?
Yes.
So thank you so much.
We really appreciate that guys.
There's one that's not okay.
King Fisher.
I'm not an expert auctioneer.
So this is the, it's the best I can do.
If you want to come on and.
Don't even listen to that.
Okay.
So, all right.
So all, and all you people, if you can, um, here, here's just an email address to get
in touch.
So we at least have some contact info.
Uh, or please, uh, DM, uh, myself, Jane or Stinky Lungs, um, make it easy for us guys.
And you know, if you're, if you're bidding, please pay up.
That's the only other thing with this.
Yeah.
I mean, okay.
So, so yeah, pay and the, and the second most important thing is get in touch with us in
some way, shape or form.
Cause otherwise we have no way to connect you with the beans that where's our hand model.
Oh yeah.
Where's our hand model.
Oh, also, uh, Peter, there are people that are trying to call in like nerds and, uh,
Ravana farms and they, uh,
They say they can see they, they got in and they can see us.
Some of them, but the nerds said, uh, it won't let him in.
It won't let him in.
Can I just have people just call my phone and put on speakerphone?
Well, no, why don't you can't, can someone just send them an email and CC me or send
a text and CC me and I'll, I'll technically, we got our hand model.
Yeah.
He can also do many other things.
All right.
Can hand model send a group text?
Yes.
And everybody watching is watching our, our technical troubleshooting live.
It's not that bad.
This is where we need.
I, we, our musical guests may be able to join us, uh, for a song later.
Um, that would be a good, that would be a good, uh, some music playing while we're trying
to figure this out.
Can we pay with a debit card?
Uh, I, I think PayPal may accept debit cards.
I have no idea, but, um, and I, uh, also wanted to put out there that I believe that PayPal
will allow you to, uh, have a credit up to a thousand dollars on that you can have up
to six months to pay back.
So if there are some things that interest you that you might not have the funds today,
that is a small little gift from PayPal to make that happen.
And green Morpho from Idaho says hi to Brian.
What's up?
Green Mopo.
Okay.
So, all right.
So anyway, the people who won the first one, if you're having issues, just let us know
in the chat, let's move on.
Uh, send an email to donate at daggett.love or hit up someone in the DMS.
I'll throw, I am handing out a free gift card.
I am handles, uh, but let's get going.
Let's let's move on.
So what, what do we have next?
Uh, we got the pine bomb.
So that's the scentsy Durban poison cross with the screaming Eagle.
Uh, this is a, and, and, and just quickly James, can you, as we put packs up, can you
type what they are and I'll push it live.
James managing the chat.
There we go.
I mean, I love that.
Wait, sorry.
What, what, what's up right now?
Pine bomb.
So that's the scentsy Durban poison cross with the screaming Eagle.
Okay.
And I'm going to wait for James to type it into the chat so I don't have to type it in.
And then I will post it.
James, I'm putting you to work.
How many packs of that do you have?
I have a six of these.
All right.
Six packs.
How do I, uh, have the people donate?
How do I, uh, have the people that are trying to call get in?
What do I do?
So, so sent, send a group text and all.
It will be like, okay.
They should be organic Colorado.
Bob.
I agree with that, buddy.
These are, I feel like some people kind of slept on this in January.
So that one actually, I wish, uh, drew, can I talk for drew?
Andrew Ravonna farms.
I'm speaking on your behalf.
I remember how fucking stoked you were about, uh, one that you had selected for certain
phenotypic expressions that you were super hyped on, um, that you brought out to the
ranch, the pine bomb.
Uh, it had, I want to say also, um, that Duke echoed the sentiments of, I had a thing for
Rosetta stone and it didn't have all the same characteristics or anything like that,
but it had that same uniqueness.
I'm not anything that was necessarily Jack leaning the way that Rosetta was.
Um, but, uh, if that was your little special one, I remember that.
And you said you want to grow this.
Um, so, and I, and I didn't, um, yeah, so I might want one of those.
Okay.
All right.
Yeah.
So we have, um, Chris Jennings at two 50.
Nice.
Thank you, Chris.
People know that it's good stuff.
Oh, and evergreen.
So we got two 20 and two 50 nights and, uh, Chris needs two packs, two packs.
All right.
Oh, wait, can you, am I allowed to see that?
I, I wanted to read some of these in case if anybody's just listening and not watching,
but one of them said that, uh, Duke was a treasure to the community and I wanted to
read the rest of that one, but I don't know how to, how to scroll up.
I don't know if that's a thing.
Can we do that?
Yeah, you can scroll.
Your hand model could scroll up.
Hand model.
It was just only like one or two up that it's, that it's a, yeah.
Maybe a little more.
I just think it's fun to read these kinds of things.
It's really nice.
All this stuff that people are saying, Oh, D E M you grew Rosetta stone.
Yes.
Thank you, Andrew.
And, um, I love the dragonfly earth medicine is on here.
Thank you for, um, yeah, yeah.
And Rosetta stone.
Um, that was like my big thing.
And, and I don't want to interrupt your auction because that's what I was going to tell you.
Is I have one pack.
Jane, it's your option.
It's not here.
It's not here.
Um, nurse put it aside for me and all of my selfishness.
Um, but maybe the link we gave.
It doesn't work.
Yeah.
Cause my guy says he can't.
Yeah, we can't call in.
Okay.
Let, let me, Brian, let me, let me email you the link or, uh,
standing coma.
Uh, can you email me, uh, future cannabis project.org.
And I will email back the, uh, well, Brian, let, let, let me text you.
You may have sent them the wrong.
I think I might have a clarity, right?
So Brian, I'm going to text it again to you.
Okay.
Did it just come through?
I need it.
Secondhand model.
Okay.
All right.
I'm going to send this.
I'm excited about these.
Actually.
You can put me on, um, for 300 for one of these.
Am I allowed to buy any of them?
Can I do that?
Hell yeah.
That's the easiest.
Yeah.
Only cause seriously, Andrew sold me on this.
He's going to lose reception.
Going to be mad that he missed it.
Okay.
So I'm going to add, I know.
Really hard.
Let's talk about this one.
Um, while people are bidding, I'm going to put two more minutes on the timer.
Okay.
Uh, so let's see Christmas tree shape.
Yeah.
I think this is stuff for that's important for people to know, especially if you have height
limitations in your basement, all those basement girl heroes out there.
I know you're out there.
Um, so Christmas tree shapes, uh, let's see.
Do do do do do do.
They stretch a triple in flower.
Let's say, so you need a little height on these ones.
Um, and, uh, pest resistance, eight out of 10 mold resistance, uh, eight out of 10 mildew
resistance.
So that's great.
So for all, all you folks from coast to coast, uh, you've got, you've got some good stuff
on, on here as far as, um, being able to put up with the other bullshit that's going on
in the environment.
So Pine Sol that's that's that.
And Vicks Vicks vapor, Pine Sol and Vicks.
I don't know about you guys.
I love tiny dabs.
Um, so that's why I was flying hard up about this one.
So one of them.
And in the chat of James being and James loud and anybody else who can throw up some descriptive
info wants to post it, I'll throw it up in the, uh, I'll post the comment.
So I, you know what I really like about this, um, while we're gathering community, it's
awesome to see everybody talking to each other in the chat, like super hyped up.
I think we need this little like socialization so bad with all of us right now.
So I'd love to see everybody.
Yeah.
VA don't play.
Okay.
Look at that.
We got Corey.
All right.
Hello.
What's up Corey?
What's going on everybody?
I appreciate your time brother.
Sorry, I'm stepping out of the room.
Oh, you're all good.
Obviously this man grows weed.
Okay.
Let me send this.
How you doing today, man?
All these links out.
I'm doing well, man.
Just enjoying a rainy day down here in Oklahoma.
Is that where you're at nowadays?
Yep.
Yep.
I'm just south of Tulsa.
Right.
We were talking about how we all know Duke and how he's affected us and influenced us
and helped us along the years.
What's your connection with Duke?
So it all started, I guess, back in Virginia where we kind of all grew up on the same strains,
like the Cinderella 99, the Virginia Beach Afghani.
There was some HP.
There were a lot of awesome genetics that were floating around the state of Virginia,
but we never knew each other just because of how illegal it was.
You know, everyone kind of had a close-knit circle.
And it wasn't until Indoor Expo, I believe it was 2016, when I was walking on the floor
and someone said they had a jar of the Virginia Beach Afghani.
And I was like, wait, I haven't seen that in years.
You know, that was one of my favorite genetics from Virginia.
And sure enough, it was Duke.
So that's when he pulled the jar out.
And I was like, damn, man, I literally haven't seen this genetic in probably,
you know, damn near 10 years.
And that's when he's like, yeah, I'm from, you know, excuse me, I'm from
central Virginia and all this shit.
And I was like, wow, okay, so you were pumping the same genetics that we all kind of passed
around our circle, but in that same vein, no one ever really knew each other.
And he just, he kind of brought me in like family right when we connected on that genetic.
And that's when we started, you know, we were hanging out.
He knew I was working for 710 at the time.
And that's another reason why we connected, because he gifted me a couple of his genetics.
One time I actually went up to northern Colorado and went and saw his spot and the work that he
was doing in his vault.
His mother vault was just impressive.
It had me drooling.
Like it had genetics that I grew up on.
I was like, damn, I didn't even realize these were still around, you know, like cuts that,
like I said, I hadn't seen in years.
So it was something that I know he kept it in the family.
He was a man of his word.
He still is a man of his word.
And he just, he held things close to his chest and gave respect where it was due.
But he actually gifted me a couple.
I think they were unreleased, but there's something that we put out at 710 called Layla.
That was, I want to say it was East Coast sour diesel by original diesel by HP 13.
And I think he threw it in on the Cindy, but I forget exactly what our boss is.
And I'm, I'm sorry, Duke, when you see this, I'm a dumb ass.
No, you're not.
No, it's just one of those things where we really connected because we all kind of came
from the same hometown and, you know, we were fighting the right fight back in Virginia.
And then I was just shocked to see that somebody had the real Virginia Beach Afghani
out in Colorado.
And I was like, wait a second, this guy, he's, he's from a tight circle.
You know, it's not like a ton of people are doing that in Virginia.
And that's when we connected.
And then when, when he was, like I said, when I went to go see him up in the Northern Colorado,
he said, here's some beans.
These are going to be great for solving this hash, pop them, hunt them, and really stuff.
And sure enough, he wasn't wrong.
He was spot on with, with his crosses.
And it was some of the best solving this hash.
I still feel to this day that we were able to put out was, was all in his genetics.
And I mean, he's, he gifted him to me, you know, it wasn't like he wanted any money.
He was just a big hearted guy.
He still has a big hearted guy.
And obviously it's unfortunate that he's having to deal with what he's dealing with, but.
Yeah.
He'll come out the other end for sure.
We all know that's the case.
Yeah.
Well, thanks for calling Corey.
We appreciate you.
Thanks for having me on.
No worries.
Yeah.
We appreciate your time, Corey, for sure, man.
Thank you for taking that and sharing that with us.
No problem, man.
Y'all have a great day.
You too, man.
You too.
See ya.
Thank you.
Hey, I wanted to give a quick shout out to James Loud too.
I appreciate you, buddy.
You really, I appreciate you getting the word out, man.
Thank you, sir.
Just quickly.
So was the issue that you had sent like one of the earlier links?
Oh yeah.
I guess that wasn't working.
So all of the-
So yeah.
So everybody who's having trouble getting on, just send that new link to them and it should work.
Nerds is trying to get in and they said that-
He said that his, I'm sorry?
You gotta change your browser settings.
Browser settings.
If he's on a phone, will that be applicable?
I'm assuming that he's calling on a phone.
Yeah.
If he calls in on a phone, typically you just gotta tell, like it prompts you.
It says, which microphone do you want to use?
What camera do you want to use?
Yeah.
It just said it's blocking my mic and video.
Are you calling on a phone?
Because otherwise I'm just going to tell, I mean, we're missing a whole bunch of people
that wanted to call and I might just have them call on my phone if that's okay.
Sure.
Yeah.
It's better than nothing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's a few guys that are like, oh no.
The second link I sent to-
And it worked?
It worked.
So-
I did resend.
Corey said the first link might've worked.
It, he had to change his browser settings to get in.
Okay.
And after that, it was good.
Okay.
So, so just quickly on the current James Bean, can you throw up, can you type in what, what's
currently up again?
It's the Pine Bomb with the Scented Durban Poison Cross with the Screaming Eagle.
That's right.
And I believe we have-
Four is spoken for, supposedly.
So, well, so Fish Whistle was at 260 and Fish Whistle, let me know if I got that wrong.
Chris Jennings was at 250.
Jane was at 300, right?
Yeah.
Okay.
So, so basically if anybody else jumps in or wants to match Chris Jennings, 250, all three.
Wait, James Bean, good God.
Is that a, is that a bid?
$276.
James, can you confirm that that's a bid and not an area code since everybody's been-
By the way, compute, I appreciate the, normally I would appreciate the shout outs from your
home area code, but it's super confusing right now.
Is 407 a bid or an area code?
So James Bean, is that an area code?
Oh, you're saying someone bid $276 or-
I'm saying someone up, further up the scroll.
Oh, good God.
Also-
Oh yeah, Jonah Foley, well, Jonah Foley, was that a bid or an area code?
Because we've been getting a lot of area codes.
Narech is calling in two minutes.
Okay. So Jonah Foley, can you just type in whether that was a bid or an area code?
And we will move on.
That's your area code.
I knew it.
Okay.
And hold on a second, just to clarify, Peter, I saw somebody had asked previously and I didn't
come back around to see if the question was answered, but is it the case that if somebody
bids for a certain amount, like for instance, 300 and somebody had 355,
is everyone to pay what it is that they're bidding just as a thing?
No, just the-
Unless if they want to.
If you want to, it would be super nice, but it's basically... So for example, right now,
Fish Whistle is at 260, Chris Jennings is at 250, Jane's at 300. You got four packs,
so let's give the three away for 250. Jane, if you want to show some heart and put in the 300
instead of 250, karma will bless you.
It already does. Look at the amazing people I have around me in my life. I am so blessed.
Yes. Thank you, Mr. Toad. If people can please stop with the area codes,
just when we're doing auctions. Any other time, it's totally cool. You can give shoutouts from
your French postal code.
VA people.
The 00144.
Is that four confirmed there, Peter?
No, three. And someone can jump in if I'm missing someone. Yes, Hermescia Alusens,
if you can help me in the chat, keep track of people bidding and if I missed anyone.
But anyway, we're calling it now. And I believe we have Fish Whistle. Yours was a bid, right? The
260 was not an area code, I pray.
So Robbie's calling right now. Can I answer this and put it on speakerphone? Will it work?
Yeah. Just hold it up to the mic.
This, right?
But before you put them on... All right. So Fish Whistle...
Hello.
Hi.
Cool.
How are you doing?
Hold on.
Yeah. Tell them to hold on one second. So Fish Whistle, Chris Jennings, and Jane.
I'm just going to post where you... So you can either PayPal. Okay. So Jane, you can bring them
on. I'm going to do this in the chat. I'll be quiet.
Okay. Can you hear, Robbie?
I can hear. Can you hear me?
Yes. Can everybody in Internet land hear?
Yes.
Okay. I'm holding the phone up to the microphone. I don't know if you can see me, Robbie.
Robbie, we are not bidding on the seeds that you donated yet.
Okay.
But I just... You know what? What do you want to say? You want to say some good stuff about Duke?
Put you on the spot?
Yeah. I mean, that's kind of what we're here for, right?
Yeah.
I randomly had Duke come into my life about, I don't know, almost five years ago now,
I want to say. Maybe four. And he has consistently shown up in ways that are
not very common for humans, not very common in the cannabis industry. He's always, always
shown up anytime that we ever needed him for anything. And what I have always loved about
him more than anything is that he loves this plant enough to have done a significant chunk of
time for it already. But more importantly, he is interested in it being the best that it possibly
can. And the thing that I saw him do over and over and over and over and over again,
were give out all of the trade secrets, give out all of the information on how do you make this
smell like a rotten trash can? He always wanted to share and always wanted it to be a better
product, better for the community. And he really, really believed in it, really does believe in it.
And I'm super thankful for that in our industry. There are a lot of people who really, really love
him because they had some sort of medical struggle or something that was going on for them that was
unique and cannabis helped. And he was always the first person to give somebody who really
needed him some seeds or spend hours talking to people about how do you do that. That's rare,
that people will give that much of themselves to people that they don't know very well.
When I met Duke, he did not know me very well. And he would spend hours in my store just sitting
and talking to me. We spent a long time working and developing ideas on things that
could make the plant better or whatnot. But those ideas could never be and would never be
held only to us. It was something that was always for the betterment of the community. And I've
always just respected the hell out of that. It's an unfortunate situation to be in a place where
you are being persecuted because of the plant. What's going on for Duke right now has nothing to
do... What he did is technically not illegal. And he is only being persecuted because
he has a prior charge for growing a plant. That to me is crazy. All of the industry that has come
up around cannabis is built on the backs of people like Duke. Those people that served time are what
are allowing all these corporate guys to be able to make so much money at it now.
They're getting us on both sides. So being able to support somebody who has given so much to this
community when they need it is really important to me at least. So... Thank you for that.
You want to go into a little of the stuff? We couldn't remember the figure four.
Can you see this? Yeah, the Dominion Seed Co. with the Swamp Foils figure four.
Well, I know it's TK is the collab part. I'm not 100% sure what went into the other side,
but I think it was the Screaming Eagle or something in the Screaming Eagle line.
Yeah. But yeah, those were super rare releases. Duke knew that I love TK. It's one of my favorite
strains. And so he saved a pack of those for me before they went out to get distributed with the
Swamp Foils and whatnot. You know what, Robbie, somebody wrote on and it says figure four is a
TK cross with airborne G13 cross with Skelly. Right. So that's... Okay, there you go. That's
Screaming Eagle, I believe. Yeah, I think it is. Airborne G13 cross with Skelly.
So I think originally what it was, it was... I think you did... Screaming Eagle was originally
the airborne G13 times the original Afghani that he brought back from Afghanistan. And then I think
he crossed that to Skelly hash plant. And then that went out to... I think that made either
the original Screaming Eagle or something off of it. But that was what made a lot of those crosses.
And everything that's in it is insane. I mean, that Skelly hash plant is still the strongest
weed I've ever smoked. Ever. Was that the one or another one where he would... What was the one
where he was like... What was the rules about it? You had to wait till... You can't smoke it before
11 or was that the skunk? You can't smoke it before 11. You can't smoke it when you're working.
No smoking when you're... Oh, I know what it was. No smoking when you're working. No... Smoke before
11 and don't grow it with close neighbors or something. Yeah, I mean, all those would certainly
fit that one. It's unique and awesome. And then the airborne is something that he and I shared.
He and I shared. And it's really, really incredible that what came out as Screaming Eagle
was really good. And so all of the things that came from that were really good. And
I'm pretty sure all those figure four crosses and whatnot sold out pretty quick. I don't think
they exist anymore. And then the Munson was... It has your name on it.
What he did with Melbanics. Is that how you say it? I'm trying to remember what the cross,
but it was NL5. Dominion Skunk.
Dominion Skunk. Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah. Dominion Skunk times, I believe NL5 was the one
that Mel had. So yeah, and then those, he just left me for Christmas one time. James Bean.
He does. I love NL5. James Bean saying the figure four was not released in seed form.
Oh, a clone only? Well, no, he used the figure four male in the last drop. That was what he
was crossing. I mean, that makes sense. Yeah, there we go. So I'm not really sure.
So that's super rare. Super rare. I don't think that it exists anywhere outside or very many
places, at least outside of that pack. So the A11 times P75s are something that Tommy or Duke made
on accident. Yeah, but they're so good. Not accident per se, but they weren't for a project.
It was in the room to get run, but there was no plan for it, I don't believe.
And he just gave me a ton of them. So now you guys have a whole bunch of packs to auction out.
The stuff that came out of them were really good. And then those green Avengers were a collab
that he did with Subcool before Sub passed. And it was some special cut, and I can't remember
exactly which one it was. It says on the pack. But it was something that Sub got for them.
It was done as a collaboration, but a really small one. There weren't very many of those
packs that came out. And that one is one of the raciest plants I've ever smoked, ever.
It just feels like three bumps of cocaine.
You gave some really special stuff. And actually, can we put the Rosetta one in there now,
even though it's not here? Can we throw that one out?
Yeah. And there's actually a real quick sticky loans. You want to talk about Mr. Landis Tank,
what he donated so that people can also know about some super, super rare.
Absolutely.
I appreciate you, Landis. Thanks, sir.
Yeah. And then actually, let's get the next item up.
Oh, yeah. My pleasure. I've done anything. I just want to help where I can.
Thank you, Robbie.
Thanks, Robbie.
Nurds Genetics for the amazing contributions. Robbie also put, he had an original
pack of Rosetta stones that he put aside for me because I just had this thing with them. And I am
paying for those if anybody's, we can throw them in after you to outbid me because the original
Rosetta stones before they got a little discombobulated in their genetics there,
in my opinion, the original Rosetta stones are really awesome. And that was before
parting ways with Brothers Grimm that those are my, that's my absolute favorite thing that I've
ever grown and hashed ever and had a mother cut from Duke and through one way or another.
Parted ways with that cut. And so I like had a special thing that I was asking Robbie to hold
onto these seeds for me that I really, really wanted them, but I'm going to throw them in the
pot if people love them. I know DEM does as much as I do that original Rosetta stone. I used to say,
I believe will be a supplement for ADHD for people that have, or is it ADD or whatever,
that have Adderall prescribed to them. I have very personal experiences with these genetics that
I had friends that were on a hundred milligrams of Adderall a day that were on nothing with the
loveliness of Rosetta stone and kind of helped me earn my name, Propane Jane, by being able to
create diamonds without any kind of high tech, anything with how wet that Rosetta stone is.
You just slimy. So anyway, so Robbie held onto those for me. Love you, Robbie. Thank you for
that. And I'm going to throw them in the pot. If you want to outbid me, good luck. Cause my bid on
those is $600. So if you want to outbid me, that's how much I like those.
Okay. Let's, let's get something going now. Do you want it?
Like that, that strain is really special because it came from Jack Harris, kind of Jack Harris.
Yes, it did.
And it was, it was real legit. That was one of the best Jack Harris I've ever seen. So,
you know, that was, that was a super, super special one. And then I also donated like a big pack of
ones that Duke and I did together, which are the Kim's sis times skunk was the dad. And then it
went back to Gorilla Glue. And I mean, I technically made them, but he did all the work. You know,
he picked the mail and told me what to put it. I'm so like, all I did was, you know, make the seeds.
But it's like, it's hard to, it's hard to really say it was a clap, but that that's how,
how we did it. So anyway, that that's out there. They have never been released,
will never be released because they're a step to another project. But they're,
they're in your hands right now. So you know, the, the couple of them that have gone out and
been ground and they're like, they're a little bit finicky because they're Gorilla Glue based,
but the ones that come out are, are some of the best things that like,
you know, I've ever given anybody. So did we, did we grow these at the ranch?
I feel like we grew some of these at the ranch. Cause I remember the Gorilla Glue.
Hey Peter wants to get some of these out.
We're going, we're doing stuff. So thank you, Robbie. Thank you.
This is the Camp Dog D cross with the Dominion skunk.
And hang up. Okay. So, so yeah, we, we, we, we, we can keep talking with them or talk about some
of the other stuff, but let's get something going while we're talking. And also thank you for the
people that are coming in. Thank you. Thank you. You're seeing the payments come in already. Oh my
God. This is a tight ship we're running. Okay. So burnout chem is up right now. You want to just
quickly talk about it and we'll start the bidding and I'm going to set the timer at four minutes
and we can always add time if we need to. You want to talk more about like the Chem Dog fam?
Sure. So this is a burnout chem is the Chem D mother and the Dominion skunk father.
Everybody's familiar with Chem Dog, 91 mostly. And D in the form cut make garlic cookies or
GMO as it's called. Chem four is my personal favorite. I think Duke used to grow that,
but not really work with it much, but let's see what we got here. Just grow it, right? Like just
grew it for what it was. Yeah. I don't think he ever worked with it, but anyways. So then there's
the Chem sister. And that was what we were talking about just on the phone with Robbie. So yeah,
thank you for that call. We're pretty deep on those. So if y'all want to get it in with the
burnout. How many packs do we have? One? We have 20 of those actually. Oh, okay.
I know. We got 10 and we'll hustle 10 elsewhere. Yeah, that's fine. I mean, I'm just putting it
out there that this is everything that we have. So if we can raise it all, then that's my goal.
Burnout Chem is fire.
Burnout Chem, I felt like it was going to be a little project that I was hopefully going to work
on until all the expos and got shut down. So this is something unique that I've personally been
holding on to this entire year. So this is my gift to the community holding this on and giving this
to you guys.
Okay. So we have 10 cap at 130. All right.
You want to talk more about like Chemdog fam? I feel like that's why people really
sought this one out. Yes, there are a few of them. That's why I was trying to,
especially with Mike and everybody, get them to call and they were all trying.
Pbud can call and discuss. Hold on, give me like just a second because he's not
calling my phone. I'm just going to tell him to call my phone. How many seeds are in there?
These are 12.
So we can get...
Pbud can call.
Pbud knows about the show, but because Duke's reach is so far, there's a lot of people that
are in a lot of different time zones. So we're getting a little bit of, yeah, Pbud. Yep. He is
definitely Chem fam for real. That's why I was trying to reel him in on a phone call to be able
to discuss his relationship. Another person I would see, yes, there are Delta Blues. That's
coming up hot on the block too. And the other question, the firing time on this is 60 to 68
days. But he used to come in the garden and I feel like they shared some Lady Seamans. What
Robbie didn't say. I mean, he did say that he had some genetics that they shared, but that airborne
G13, I think actually came from Nerds, I feel like. So they used to share for their breeding
projects. Nerds has incredible genetics. And actually in a cultivation that I was in Trinity,
not this past year, but the year before, we pretty much extensively with the exception of a few beds
of clones of some of your monocrofts for producers, right? We grew Dominion Seed Company and we grew
Nerds genetics. And that was it. Like a lot of them, like a lot. And just had such wonderful
success with them. And yeah, being able to have- I don't think a lot of people even knew that,
at least back in the day that those two, as far as I understood it, were growing next to each other.
That they did. Yeah. They had a, thank you Jojo, 250. They shared a lot of the genetics that they
have released and not when the- is that done loud? Yes, it is. That original Jack Erica is loud. And
they would share those along with some of their other stuff. Some of the chem stuff shared. And
I don't know if Duke ever shared any of Granny or anything like that with Robbie. Robbie would
have to answer that one. But all of the people that would come into the garden, Nerds included,
Pee Bud included, and the Chem Fam. They all had just absolutely incredible genetics that they
would share with each other. And I think that that is just a really huge deal. So when you're getting
these crosses, they're not- one of my favorites, Joe Canapoo, I don't know if he's watching or
listening, but one of my favorite things that he would do is put up hilarious stuff on Facebook
that would just be like cool seed company names. And my absolute favorite one was Fly By Night
Seed Company. Because he would just say that all these people didn't do the work. And this group of
people have done the work for a really long time. And so their genetics are all really solid. I would
say I've grown a lot of these. And I'm not- even with Robbie, with the things that he gives, he'll
say, well, I'm not really sure. It's always stellar. So it's always stellar. All right, well,
just quickly, Hermeshea, can you add Jojo, who's right below your thing? And then we'll call it.
Here we go. Let's see what- And if anyone else wants to jump in.
Hello? Oh, hey. It's Mike.
Hey, Mike. Hey, Pee Bud's on the line. Hey, we're actually doing a Burnout Chem
auction right now. And we were talking about Chem Family. If you want to-
Nice. Hop on in there.
Yeah, like to say some nice things about Tom. Do I call him Duke or Tom?
Thanks. Duke's good. Sure, everyone's figured it out by now. Grandma is special,
by the way, in Greek Korean. Okay, go ahead. I'll try to call him Duke.
Okay. Go ahead.
So, okay. So I met Duke probably- Well, I met him on Overville a long time ago.
And then I see Mags, we chat every once in a while, not too much. But I met him at one of the
Denver Cups probably five years ago. I was actually- Skunk VA wanted the Skelly hash plant.
So I met Duke at the Cup there and gave him the Skelly cut. And that was the first time I met him.
And then I worked with him for just a couple months at Elite Canada, so up in Longmont.
And that's kind of where I really started to get to know him and just learned a bunch of stuff from
him. We were just talking, you know, work and talk and work and talk and trim and talk. And
then I brought my son up. He was probably three at the time. He was taking care of a basement
up in Longmont and just kind of been nicer to my son. Just made him feel, you know,
welcome down in his garden. And I know people are protecting their gardens.
He made a little pile of dirt for him to play in. So I really appreciate that. And then just
just got in touch with him over the years. I used to go up and help him up when he was with
Brother Grimm up in that warehouse up there. I'd go up and we were just, I'd help him out,
but mostly just talk and just learn, just learned a lot from him and would do anything for you. So
sad that he's where he's at and I really hope he gets out soon.
You know what? I appreciate that you're talking about that because how I'm not sure if you heard
me earlier talking about how he helped me give my kids a nice Christmas and I met you from the
garden. Yeah. So, yeah, but that warehouse, I remember, but no, just kind of the nicer to my
son. Yeah. I was a little nervous for him up there and he just kind of been, you know, could
not have been nicer, more welcome and just made me feel at ease. So always appreciated that.
And so, yeah, just a good guy would do anything for me.
Good. Can you talk a little bit about the collab with the seeds a little bit?
All the, any things that you did with Duke? Did you do any work with him or just shared?
Yeah. I just kind of shared what I had with him and he shared what he had with me and
an old sour diesel I got. I had grown that in years. He had a real good one. He held on for
20 years. I mean, you know, his mother library was insane. I mean, just,
and he would let me come up and take cuts off of, you know, anything, anything I wanted, which,
you know, not too many people do that. Not many at all. I know. That's a really good. People are,
by the way, people are on here saying all kinds of people are chiming in and say, oh, and DEM
says, what up P bud? So there's a lot of people, a lot of people saying hi, a lot of people saying
hi. So we love that. Yeah. Lots of people. Good. Yeah. And I can't wait to talk to him.
Okay. Okay. So, so let's, let's wrap up the
Oh, he's calling it right now. Okay. Hey, you know what? I think,
a homie is calling right now, so we'll let you go. Thank you for calling.
I think it's, it's, it's Duke. Okay. Bye Mike. Thank you. Very cool.
Yo. Hey, what up buddy? What up brother?
Yeah, sure. You doing your, doing your thing? Yeah. We're all here listening.
Oh, shit. What's up? All right.
Everybody's listening. Oh, did it go off? Did it go off speakerphone? Yes.
Hold on a second here. Hold that.
Oh, it's, it might be here. I'm doing this. Okay. Here.
You know, I gotta keep this a real, real short, you know, short and, uh, short and sweet and
everything, but, uh, you know, I hope everybody has a nice holidays and, uh, you know, enjoy
being around the family and everything. And, uh, thank, uh, thank everybody for, you know,
the help and support and, uh, everything. And just remember the reason for the season,
you know, family and friends and, you know, all that good stuff. And, uh, you know,
be sure to spread the cheer and, uh, you know, be, uh, be good to one another. And, uh, you know,
that's, that's about it, man. And, uh, you know, just thanks. Uh, thank you again, uh, very much.
And, uh, and, you know, won't be, uh, won't be too much longer and this whole, uh, thing to be,
uh, be wrapped up and, uh, good to go. Excellent. Everyone's calling in, uh,
Pee Bud just called. So, you know, yeah, we got it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You got it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
You know, these, uh, these things here, uh, it's best to just keep it short and short and sweet.
So, uh, anyway, I really appreciate you doing this buddy, uh, calling in. I know that it means a lot
to me, man. And you know, that's so, so, so let everybody get back to it. And, uh, just thank
y'all. Thank y'all so much. All right. Happy holidays. And I'll talk to y'all soon. Uh,
once I'm back home. Happy holidays.
Home safe. Happy holidays, everybody. All right. Bye-bye.
All right. That's super fun. I just wanted you guys to hear that he's in good spirits and that,
um, you know, all that other noise that potentially was going around. It's just that
it's noise. He's coming home soon. And, uh, that's the reason for the season today.
Yeah. So again, we want to give a shout out to Landis. Thank real quick. Um, uh, he donated some,
uh, really, really fine gifts. Yeah. We have four selections from Landis. Thanks,
both. So, uh, we'll cover those really quickly. Okay. Wait, but before you cover them, let's wrap
up the, uh, the burnout, the burnout cam. Uh, so if, uh, hold on, if someone can post all the people
the final bidders on, uh, let me just give me one second.
I see one for once. Oh, here we go. Yeah, there we go. My God. Thank you. And then we got our
excellence, uh, add that one in and we'll up purple nerds. I know. Sorry. Jojo at two 50.
I know. Sorry. Jojo at two 50. Oh yeah. Jojo. Right. He's just saying Jojo at two 50.
Um, okay. Well, we'll sort this out, but add our excellence in there.
So it's our excellence plus all these people and you're all going to get it. Uh,
uh, so basically each of you will get it for your bid price. How about that?
Yeah. Cause we got a low of one 20. Um, but I don't want to do them all at one 20.
So a hundred percent of it or, or yeah. Or just anything. How about the low of one 20 and the
rest of you, if you can possibly do it at your winning bid price, uh, that would be amazing. But,
um, Ken cap says sure thing. And Ken was at, I feel like Jojo, you could pay, you could get the
one 60. That's fine. That's fair. Or you can just pay two. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You definitely don't
need to do the two 50, but it'd be appreciated. Um, okay. So let me, so why don't you guys move
on to the next one and I'll post where they can make their donations in the chat. So tell us what's
next. Uh, let's see, should we do the Duke gift packs or the Land of Stank seeds that he's done?
Well, let's hype the Land of Stank. So what we have from Land of Stank is a intergalactic from
exotic Mike, which I believe is a starfighter back cross of sorts. Uh, pretty desirable is
Constantine is the mother. The cube is the father and the cube is a starfighter.
Then we have banana Sunday from Canada.
I'm not too clear on the, uh, genetics. Obviously it's a Sunday driver cross
and then we have driz nipper from exotic Mike as well. That's sure. Mother and cookies and
cream F two father and then juggernaut from swamp boy seeds, which is a sour diesel mother,
a GMO triangle cush skunk father. It is banana OG and Sunday driver. Yep. Okay. So what you got,
did we pick one? Uh, we can go with the, let's do the juggernaut first. All right. James being,
can you, uh, post that up or type it up and I'll post it. All right. So you guys want to talk about
this? The juggernaut is one of the, one of the ones I had my eye on their lineup. I think that
dropped what, like a year ago, it's past into Expo in January or the January before. I can't
remember when they did the triangle cush GMO triangle, cush skunk male. It was recently,
but yeah, sour diesel. Can't go wrong with that. The GMO Kim D and cookies and the triangle cush
and then a skunk. I would also say, uh, you know, the fact that Atlanta's thing put it,
is putting his name on it. Um, it's something that he probably clearly sees, uh, and, uh,
washes a lot of things and grows a lot of things. Um, so, uh, I would also put the fact that he's
putting that up there to be that, uh, this is something unique. Um, if you guys have never
heard of this before, uh, but I would imagine most of us have heard of swamp boy seeds.
Okay. So let, let's start the bidding at a hundred and, uh, let's get going.
And there's just one pack of that. Just one pack.
Is that, are you doing juggernaut first? That looks like fun.
And somebody else, but, uh, that it did well outdoors. That's good to know.
That was the point of the, uh, that's the overgrow right. Plant cannabis everywhere.
Yeah. I think he was just talking about, uh, thank you. Right. Mighty.
Okay. We got a one 40 to kick things off. All right.
And James loud and James being are going to be our, our chat hype men telling everybody they need,
they need this.
Sasquatch. What up, dude? I sent him the link. I sent you two links, buddy.
Is that the same one? Are you the same one? Send them the correct one. Yeah.
I think that's the same Sasquatch. Is it the same? Are you the same? Are you the same? Are you the
is there only one in the world? So one of the other things that Sasquatch, when he and I became
he had the Vulcan death grip, which is another genetics from a Duke Dukes vault. And that for me,
when I first really got into the pens, uh, trying to like walk around downtown and be discreet,
that was something that I felt like I could just sit there and it had this like pine solid straight
to the face, uh, kick to it. And that was something that I really felt like Sasquatch was really, um,
uh, he, he was able to put his stamp on, on those genetics and kind of grow them in his manner. And
believe me, that took your face off when you'd sit there and just even hit the pen.
Yeah. That's good. Chris Jennings wants to know what's on the block.
We got juggernaut on the block. It's a, a sour diesel cross from the swamp boy seeds.
And Jonah, I'm, uh, posting it again. Okay. So Jonah has PayPal.
Yes. All right. Let me turn to me. Copy paste.
I like all the community though. This feels really good. All the people just talking,
talking to us, talking to each other. It feels so good. Okay. Mighty high is at one 80.
Somebody asked before if, uh, we were going to the, the cowboy cub, uh, nerds actually called
from that area. He drove in yesterday. I, after the show actually changed my flight,
I was flying earlier today, but I wanted to be here and supportive everything going on. And so
I fly after this to the cowboy cop. I'm super stoked to go to Oklahoma, get a little outlaw
rowdy with everybody. Um, I'm hoping that all y'all, uh, will be at that cowboy cup.
We got one, we got one pack.
Yeah. One pack. And it's currently going to ride mighty high for one 80,
and Jen is going to ride mighty high to Oklahoma in about an hour and a half.
Yeah. Yeah. There's just one pack. Yep. And again, guys, if, uh, you know, if you don't
want to buy gear or anything today, if you could just send $5 to that Venmo or that PayPal account.
Yeah. Is there still, and James being, can you answer this? Is there also a, a go fund me
that I could just throw a Lincoln if people just want to donate five bucks, that would be much
easier. Yeah. If not, we can make one, right. Or does he already have one? Yeah. Do you have one?
Also? Uh, I saw a whole bunch of people. I got a little sidetracked, but I saw a whole bunch of
people, uh, writing in about, uh, if, if we could do some, some hoodies and Andrew Ravonna, that's,
I mean, that was the, all these shirts, Brian, Brian will take the shirt off his, uh, off his
chest. What size is that? It's, it's, it's like when, uh, when flea and, uh, and the red hot chili
peppers would play and like women, women, their stories are like women who like would grab his
sweaty underwear and, uh, and like squeeze the sweat out and drink it. So if you want Brian's
pre-worn, I think more people might want this. I think this is rare. I don't know. Pre-worn hat,
especially with the old school. Yeah. There's a few of them. Um, but we were trying to get,
uh, Andrew Ravonna on the, on the, on the, on the phone earlier and it wasn't, it wasn't coming
through, but, um, we could definitely, yeah, we could definitely, um, put, I think that that would
be something wonderful because he's like, what can I do? What can I, how can I, um, and so maybe we
can do something like that. I obviously have a couple of shirts of my own. I tend to like to
cut everything else up to myself and, and make it fit me. Cause that's the thing is that most of
these shirts are for dudes, right? Girls go to, um, we aren't just girlfriends. We're going to the
next season. Yeah. So wait, wait, wait. Sorry. We're, we're, we're at one 90. We'll do 30 more
seconds. And just while we're talking. So two things, one James, uh, let us know. Oh, here we
go. Now we're seeing some movement. James being just, I may have missed it. Yeah.
Oh yeah. Somebody else put in for a sweatshirt, 200 bucks on an extra large, uh, hoodie. So
Andrew or Stacey, if you're listening, we gotta get cranking on the thread mill there for everyone.
Put out some more gear. Was so all right. So with shirts and hoodies, do we have like X number of
them? Are we not? Maybe people go ahead. I can text and, uh, get some info to see if there's
any kind of inventory, but if not, I'm sure we could have some made for an additional option.
I don't think that that would be an issue, but they might just have an inventory at home.
So I'm going to, I'm going to, I second you even grow, bro. Yeah. Well, now it's actually coming.
I I've been working with, uh, uh, yes, it's imminently coming, uh, hopefully next week.
Um, we're at two 25. Is that where we're at?
So basically two, two things as we finish this one up, but I'm just trying to figure out if
there is the go fund me, we could send people there to make like a $5 donation. I think also,
so we don't have to be time sensitive on the time we have today. Maybe if, um,
if, if, if people could reach out to us, if you do want the hoodies and the t-shirts,
and then we can respond to like via email if, um, if, uh, you know what we have available.
Yeah. Yeah. I could put out like a story on Instagram or whatever, once I get some information
and we can get additional funds generated that way. I think that'd be awesome. Fish whistle. I agree.
I agree. Um, but, uh, all right. So, so why don't, do you want to post something on Instagram after
just saying what's available for, you know, we got medium, large XL t-shirts, hoodies, and, uh,
I don't think there's a lot though. Just so you guys, yeah, no, that's fine. Just, just wait.
But so we don't have to dwell on it now is kind of what I'm going for. So, okay. So we got,
let's call it for ride mighty high to 25 to 25. Right. Right.
Uh, yeah. You mean for like a $5 donation? Yeah. We'll try to, and maybe James being,
you could post something if there's a, uh, again, I'm did James, is James still with us?
Or if anybody just wants to Venmo me that that's totally fine. Literally anything.
So either Venmo, uh, I do, I have Zelle happens to be, I think with either Venmo that yeah.
Woo.
Is that working for you? Okay. So we, we have, sorry, who, who is the two 25 winner?
Mighty high. Yeah. Okay. So either Venmo and then you guys I'll deal with that in the chat. You
guys tell us what's next. Okay. We have, uh, the driz nipper, which I think was an exotic Mike
strain again. Let me pull it back up. Yep. And it's, uh, the mother is Sherb. The father is
cookies and cream F2 supposed to flower between 56 and 63 days. Medium heavy producer. Again,
thanks. Landis. Thank for the seeds donate to Deke's cause.
Yeah. I think, uh, you know, we grew, uh, in Oklahoma, we grew some of the exotic Mike's gear
and, uh, you know, some of this stuff really sticks out. So I feel like it's, uh, it's one
of those packs that, you know, um, you might be able to find something and that's really the real
beauty of some of this stuff is that you can kind of start to make a name for yourself as you
continue to find certain gems and you have a stable of those gems. Uh, you're able to,
man, really at the end of the day, especially if you're growing for dispensaries to have your
customer pass those other dispensaries, um, to come to the one that you're selling your
cannabis at. And again, genetics is in my opinion, 50 to 60% of that. Yeah.
It's like the dad that keeps on giving
you no Q-tips.
And can you repeat what we have up right now? Since
D R I Z nipper. It's a shirt mom and a cookies and cream F2 father.
Should we hand model this one?
Like that?
Did you spell it? Is it? It looks right. Is that correct?
All right. And we got a bid of a hundred.
I don't know if you guys are familiar with exotic Mike, but he also does kind of like
silly things at the expos and stuff where he has people eat like ridiculous things. And if you hold
it down for a certain amount of time. Uh, so I like to see that too, man, not, not taking yourself
so serious all the time. Um, shout out to, uh, exotic Mike's work and shout out to land
his thing for putting it up for Duke. Yeah. It's cool. Cause those packs ain't cheating.
Still got those little fruit roll-ups. Yeah. You want to sell some fruit roll-ups for a shadow?
Uh, Jane, they need, sorry. Breezy Lee. Is that for the PayPal or the Venmo that, uh,
you need the last four digits of her phone number for me? Uh, well, hold on. That's what you're
asking. Uh, breezy Lee is paid. Is that PayPal or Venmo that you're talking? You want a whole one?
Yes, please. Venmo. So that's you. I'm four, five, four, nine, four, five, four.
You got that's two. So break it apart.
Nine, four, five, four. Yeah. Thank you. Thanks for asking. Thank you for contributing.
James Bean. Uh, is there a go fund me set up that you could post a link to if people
want to donate a couple bucks? There's only one Drisnipper pack. Yeah.
Right. Just one of the next one of each. Okay. And our current bid is
this is correct. This is what it is.
Sure. Rare cookies and cream. Oh, I like anything with that. I feel like the cream part.
Uh, thank you. And am I pronouncing that right? I've been looking at it the whole time.
Grease monkey. I feel like is where you know for though, right?
Yeah. Exotic genetics, but that's gorilla glue cookies and cream though.
I love it. We got you high.
I'm still feisty.
Okay. So let's do 30 more seconds. See if someone tops the a hundred bucks.
Yeah. Uh, that person's going to come back around and be like,
yo, please show us pictures of that after you grow it. So we can talk about what a steal it was.
Jonah Foley. Uh, do you want him to DM you?
Do it. Who do you want to handle this? Oh yeah.
This is the fun administrative stuff that happens once the, uh,
yeah, I encourage you guys to reach out to the three of us and we'll try to make it as easy as
possible. Right. So how do they reach out to you? How do you want to be reached out to?
Cannabis. Okay. So hold on.
And if somebody stumbles their way into mine, we can make like a little Google docs or something
where we got like a shareable. Not true. It's all a throne of lies, but I do know how to do that.
Okay. So you can slip for shipping. You can slide right into his DM. Keep it clean.
He's a married man.
For all of you, don't ask me to ship you free seeds for Duke. Like,
that was kind of the, why do people do that? Yeah. A couple of people asked me that this morning.
I wanted to say to everybody that's already Venmo'd me, thank you so much. And we'll be as
prompt in the ship. You even grow bro. You got, you got sniped. Okay. Thank you.
What was it? With a whopping one cent. So you even grow bro. Can you go one 20?
I did. Yeah.
Okay. And I was like, sorry, James being wrote something though. Go fund me.
Did you post the actual go fund me? Hold on. I'm scrolling up even further.
As a standard for a number of seeds in a pack. I feel like that's so much breeders.
So James being, can you post the link to the go fund me or, or, or send it to me and I'll post it.
And I think we're caught.
Okay. So let's call it, should we call it for you even grow bro? I think he would appreciate it.
Okay. You even grow bro. You're the winner. One 20. And why don't you guys move on to the next
one and I will let him know where to make his donation. Thank you. What's next? Which,
uh, let's see, we have the banana Sunday from Canada, one pack of banana Sunday.
Banana OG and Sunday driver. Yeah, that's what it was. Yeah. Which for all you little washers
out there, that's all my list. I know some of y'all like that banana. I mean, I like it for
hydrocarbon too, but yeah, I don't know. Maybe not everybody's making hash, but I feel like it's great.
What do we think about that? Cause that one sounds like a lot of fun.
I was wondering, do you think that you would get like your birth from the Sunday driver and then
banana? Geez, like what? So it's probably tall and thick. You guys see the question.
Any seeds rag femme? Oh, uh, let's see. It's a, it's a, uh, Canada pack. So whatever he normally
does is donated from my buddy, Landis stinks. So that's where they're coming from.
Usually people have to stay somewhere in the chat.
Let me text him real quick and I'll find out. Yeah. Okay.
Uh, we can do this fast. You want to put up, let's put up one of the Delta blues. People were
asking, you want to put those up? Yeah, absolutely. All right. So we got a couple of these,
uh, the Delta blues, which is the G 13 hash planet cross with the screaming Eagle.
I thought, sorry. So we haven't put anything up yet. Okay. Oh, okay. Let's do the Delta blues.
Delta blues. Okay. Somebody wanted to outbid, uh, on that Dresden advice.
I see. And it's all at the same time. Is there like a lag or something?
You mean the one that, uh, you even grow, grow one.
Yeah. We're done with that. There'll be plenty more.
Banana Sunday should be, um, Oh, people are chiming in. People know
Canerado. That's what I was saying here. You're a, you don't even have to stand in line for this
one. Cause I feel like this would have been hot shit at an old cup or something.
Okay. So, so we're doing a, what are we doing right now?
The Delta blues. So that's the G 13 hash plant crossed with the screaming Eagle.
And for some of you in the chat, I saw earlier that screaming Eagle is the airborne
G 13 crossed with the 88 G 13 hash plant, uh, across with that Afghan.
Okay. So for all you Delta blues fans, the Robert Johnson's, the sun houses, the Charlie Patton's.
I feel like the G 13 hash plant, I mean, that was something grapes and then the screaming.
We got a couple hundreds.
Squatting Tommy is up to one 20.
Like the Evergreen Valley, pretty pebbles milk. Which one?
No, those two, the Delta blues, right?
He made a special note here that overfeeding will result in diminished
yields and quality may cause some hermaphrodite from aphroditic flowers and late bloom and extreme
cases. Do not supplement humic acids on top of what is already in your soil or hydro regimen.
Poor man's weed. See, I like water.
Uh, there, there's one pack.
Of Delta blues? No.
Oh, we have, uh, we have a couple of packs here.
Delta Blues? No. Oh we have a couple packs here. Shh! Good God. Oh is that me? We're supposed to start with one and then if there's
move... Alright so if you guys have more than one pack you can't be like we have
50 packs let the auction begin. These are pretty sacred stuff. Sorry guys. We got one pack if there's a lot of
movement and bidding up we will throw a second one into the second highest bidder
but until then we got one pack. We're too honest over here. Come on. I know. Okay so
we're currently at for our one pack. Oh leathery. I believe 140. That skelly has that leather and
tobacco in it doesn't it? Okay and we'll put a minute on it so. What are you
laughing about over there? I love the Maine presence today. I love it. I was just out there. Y'all grow some
fire ass weed. Grow some good weed. You have a lot of pride in your work. Yeah.
Pretty good. Look at that. We got movement. I've never heard somebody say that before. Which one does? Delta Blues? Yeah. I didn't get that from it. I did. You know what? There were a couple. I feel like... Do you remember that crack whore?
It was a pheno that Duke had. Was it a genius? That smelled like the rotten sweet and sour chicken and it was so good. So meat yes but I don't think of beef but that like sweet and sour. The sweet and sour chicken and I don't
know. Anyway he called her crack whore. It was like a princess 75 something. I don't remember. But anyway yeah meat. It's a thing. Probably the pickiest smokers. Yeah. Was that Fish Whistle? Thank you sir. Vermont. Yeah. Yeah. I didn't get to go to Vermont but I'm going to. But I got to meet some really cool cultivators. Got to tour grow out there.
Shout to Rugged Roots if they're listening. Probably not because those people, they work really hard.
Their facility was spotless and there's just a lot of pride in general I feel like over there.
What? Fried chicken?
Oh no, it said rotten chicken.
Rotten chicken.
Whatever floats your boat.
It's hot shit, I really like it a lot.
Because it's unique, you know?
Doesn't smell like other stuff you got going on.
Yeah, that's good stuff.
I like all the community helping each other.
Like, oh hey, I grew this and this is really great.
And...
Yeah, they can really save you a lot of time.
Especially with some of the other genetics that are out there.
People have a lot of information to share with each other
and it's awesome.
Is it dad time?
It is, I think you lost three guys.
Oh, cough drop is really, I can fight, I'm too high.
Nah, I'm just trying to focus.
The whole team is too high.
Oh my God, look who made it.
I need some smoking jacks.
Can you hear us?
Hey, that's amazing.
It is.
You're blurry, James.
Hello, hello.
Hi.
How's everyone doing?
Good, how are you doing?
I appreciate you coming on.
How's everybody doing?
Oh, there you are.
I'm just super slow.
Oh, is that worse?
You're lagged.
Oh look, you've got the shirt on.
Of course, I didn't get the sign one.
On the ones you signed, you signed inside a little banjo.
So you got it, look for those ones.
Those ones are on the wall.
I think it's really cool you guys are doing this for Duke.
We did something similar when it first happened,
but lawyers are very, very expensive
and they take a lot of money.
And it was basically fighting two cases at once.
That's what soaked up a lot of the cash.
We fought like hell and we did some things
just in the chat room.
I've seen that, why don't we give him a bail?
Let's get him out of here.
I've seen that.
We had him on a bail.
As soon as it happened, he called me or his wife called me.
Well, actually two called me first.
And then she called me and she told me what was going on.
And so I was like, okay, so we got him out.
But then we spent a tremendous amount of money
and effort and energy getting the Missouri case beaten.
But once that happened, it didn't even matter.
And we had him out, he was out on bond for two months.
But once we had that when the position
that we wanted to be in,
they called him in and dropped the charges on him
and the feds picked him up right away.
So even though we had the Missouri thing
and in a big case, they lost the car footage
where they say that he gave him consent to search.
We lost the footage.
But so we had that position we were gonna win
and things look good.
They just dropped the case and the feds picked it up.
There was nothing to fight at that point
because he was a fed in possession of a firearm.
Plain and simple.
I mean, he was picked up by a law enforcement officer.
He had a gun, didn't matter how he had the gun,
didn't matter if the gun fell on his lap.
He was a fed with a gun.
State could drop it, feds could pick it up.
Easy case.
And so that's exactly what happened.
They put him in that day.
He didn't get any more bonds.
They have refused him bonds and bails
and he's been sitting in county,
which yeah, sometimes can be worse than the feds.
But with COVID, I mean, I remember COVID
and he hasn't been doing good.
He hasn't had COVID.
He's been hiding from it.
So something I told him when I first went in,
I was like, you need to write a book.
I was like, and a lot of people that are donating
and whatnot, I said, they would love to see
just a grow book, like with a little four inch
fucking inseam so people could make notes and shit.
But just like, and just tell them like,
go buy 14 pots, go buy two bags of soil,
like down to the piece, you know what I mean?
Like a case of beer, just like everything.
And just tell them that and just from start to finish.
And he's like, yeah, look at that.
And then now he's writing like a life book
and kind of a grow book.
So that's good.
He's got a self publishing when we bring him out.
I said, a lot of people would buy it.
You know, I was overwhelmed, not overwhelmed,
not shocked, but kind of like when the success
that the first go fund me had,
I didn't think, I knew a lot of people liked him
and loved him and whatnot, but it was just,
people that Duke didn't like,
like that I knew that he didn't like
and that they knew that he didn't like them.
Like if Duke didn't like you, you knew it.
Like it wasn't just, it was obvious, you know?
And when I was going through donations,
like three people that he wasn't a fan of
all donated money to my cause.
And that's gotta say something for his character
and the kind of guy he is.
Like people that he doesn't like
and that they know he doesn't like him
still come out of their pocket and donate to you.
So that's pretty awesome.
But anyways, so not to take,
you guys have the Delta blues up for bid right now?
Yeah.
I'm gonna throw something here, something on,
and it can be like an ongoing bid in the background possibly
if we can manage that Peter,
but I'm gonna pack it a super fly, hoodoo,
three punch, cough drop, free bird, mountain berry
and shine apple all in one package.
Very cool.
So we'll donate four, five, six, seven packs.
I'll cut and paste and put those all in the...
Yeah, why don't we do that next as it's on auction?
Like I'm saying, it could just be,
it can just be going in the background for like the next hour
and people can just keep bidding on it if they want.
Okay.
Yeah, you don't wanna limit the time.
That's an awesome package, thank you.
Yeah, but that's everything that we have on site right now.
Very cool.
Okay, so can you use your nimble fingers
and type that into the chat
and we got a $200 winner, 13.
I will put that in the chat and you guys,
so let's start the, how many packs was that?
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven.
Okay, so we'll start the seven packs
and then we will also, I guess,
we will multitask and have another four minute auction going.
So why don't you guys queue up the next single item
and then James, if you wanna type in
with your high school typing class speed.
All right, so let me get the PayPal information for 13 Jake.
Shout out to Leighton.
Yeah, Leighton, you're doing amazing work.
I'm just enjoying the show here, man.
For once, I don't have to do shit.
And I thought I wouldn't have to do shit
and I'm like, I'm multitasking.
Appreciate it.
Yesterday I fell asleep for,
I think it was maybe like five or 10 seconds,
but it could have been a couple minutes.
One of the cool things about Duke,
when I went to check out his grill
one of the times I was in Denver,
we got to be really, really good friends.
He is, I could say he's a breeder's breeder,
would be an understatement.
He's just the real deal.
But he'd take me to show me his grill
which I was very humbled to go into.
I noticed in the corner there was a four by four
and it had some ugly plants on it.
And usually when I see rooms, people hide that shit from me.
Like they don't want me to see their ugly plants.
But he had some ugly plants on his thing.
I asked him, I said, hey, what's going on over there?
What's that?
He was like, oh, that's my torture chamber.
He's like, I fuck with those things,
try to get him to hurt him on me.
Because if they won't hurt him on me,
they won't hurt him on anybody else.
And so I just fuck with him.
He's been in a solo cut for four months.
That one we leave outside every night, 28 degrees.
This one do something, you know,
this one I put a strobe light on just to fuck with him.
And so he would just do those kinds of things
to go the extra mile in his seed genetics
to see if anything would, if he could make it hurt him out,
if he could make it hurt him, it was solid,
he was gonna release it.
And so that's, you know,
that just shows what kind of breeder he is.
Everything was solid, you know,
it's just really good gear doing stuff for the right reasons.
Dragonfly dropped one of his knowledge bombs earlier,
but I was over there one time and I did a couple of years
and said, you know, you get to smell,
to know the smell of prison wine or toilet wine.
And I was sitting there, I said, is that,
I said, is that Bruno?
Is that Bruno?
Like you take, you know, bread and oranges and sugar
and you make wine and it ferments
and you can make prison wine.
I said, is that Bruno I'm smelling?
And he's like, I was like, are you making Bruno?
He's like, yeah, I got it.
I was like, dude, with, you know,
in today's day and age you don't have to keep making
that shit, like you just buy it at the store.
Like, what are you doing?
He's like, no, no, no, it's not for me.
It's like, it's not for me.
He's like, I top dress with it.
And the plants can take up what they need from it.
I was like, what?
He started to break down some science to me
and I was like, really?
And I was like, so they just pull what they need
and the rest of them goes to buy it.
He's like, oh yeah, he's like, I do it all the time.
And so that was one of his,
one of his things that he did that, you know,
blew me away.
On our, he always would remember our anniversary,
the first time I met him.
And he, he always would, he'd give me a dozen flowers
as he would say, bouquet of flowers,
which was like 12 different strains,
all, you know, eight different strains.
And I just sent through him and it was just, you know,
he'd named, he made some of them like Sally's Beauty Supply
just to fuck with me.
And I'd be like, what is this with Sally's Beauty Supply?
He's like, come on.
That's not like, what's the real name?
You know, he'd, he'd like,
I got to figure it out, figure it out.
But yeah, definitely a unique guy.
And like I said earlier, you know, he, you know,
a couple of them, I'd be doing a show with him
and I'd say, what are you doing?
He's like, oh, I'm answering my DMs.
I was like, what?
He's like, oh yeah.
He's like, I only got like 50 more to go.
I was like, what the fuck?
He was like, yeah, people ask questions,
I gotta answer them for them.
So I was like, well, okay.
You know, and I think Brian mentioned
is the back of his packs.
His information is top notch on point, phenomenal.
I wish all my breeders would do it.
Shout out, a pro tip for breeders.
If you want to, you know, have a good following
and have people grow your stuff correctly,
copy Duke Diamond.
Like that guy knew his plants inside and out.
And he relayed that to anything he could pass along
to the new grower he put on that card.
You know, everything, which from a reseller standpoint,
that proves to me that he's tested them.
He's ran them, he's used them.
He knows what the hell he's talking about.
He didn't just throw these together and run with them.
Like he's, you know, he's very fleeting to release.
It's a work line.
So that's, you know, a lot of breeders do that.
I mean, I don't know that I have more than three
that offer that much information like Duke did.
So it's also always a good thing to do.
Yeah, he had great cuts.
It's all about genetics.
I heard you guys speak about it earlier,
but they can copy everything on your shelf.
They can, you know, copy your media.
They can copy your building.
They copy your specials, cheaper than you,
but they can never copy the genetics on your shelf
if they're proprietary to you.
If you start them from a seed,
but nobody else has a copy of that seed,
unless you give it out, nobody else is gonna have it.
And so I think that is, you know,
that's the ultimate key and everything.
And Duke knew genetics.
He knew the rarity and, you know,
the phenol hunt to look for stuff.
So, and he knew, you know, that, you know,
a lot of people forget, but the males bring 50% of the,
they've got 50% of the thing to do with it,
whether you like it or not.
The males got 50% of the end game in there.
And so he knew to look for males.
He knew what made him special.
And somebody mentioned P75 earlier, the P75 male.
He loved the shit out of it.
He used that and a whole bunch of stuff.
Yep.
Yeah, Sticky Lungs has a few of those over there.
Yeah.
Six packs, we gotta get two.
Yeah, we're gonna throw some more stuff on too.
One pack, you mean?
Well, it's one pack of six.
Yeah, there's some.
I gotta get it.
Figure four was never released, by the way.
So anybody's been on that one, that ended up going for,
but those were sold.
That was the male that he had selected to use
in those four wrestler streams, but that was never released.
So that'd be a good pack to get.
Okay, so we have just,
cause there's gonna be a lot of confusion.
We're calling it the JBP.
Thank you, Toad.
The James Bean pack, which is the six pack.
Seven.
JBP, one.
Oh, I didn't put any commas in here, hold on.
Commas?
Superfly.
Yep, comma.
Superfly, Hoodoo, which Superfly has the figure four in it.
Hoodoo, Sangria Punch, Cough Drop, Free Bird,
Mount Berry Furnace, and Shine Apple.
Okay, let me put that back in with commas.
I like people talking about,
and actually that's what I was saying earlier,
James, about that he would do worst case scenario runs
to kind of abuse the plant.
Not abuse it, restrict certain things,
put it in certain types,
introduce certain environmental conditions.
He really did his homework.
And I'm watching the thread talking about,
somebody said when they came to Colorado,
they had a conversation with Duke
about triggering the skunk mechanism.
Just kind of putting it under certain conditions
that would make it express certain things
and then breed it right during that time.
And just like humans.
Yeah, he was all about it.
He was all about different environments
and figuring stuff out.
Six mil is a great strategy.
I think that was, he did after his best friend
that passed away.
Six million dollar man, that was named after.
The 187, in case anybody, anybody wants to know.
The 187, if you take C99 and add half of that,
88, 99 plus 88 equals 187.
So.
All the layers.
All the layers.
Who knew it was at the show,
I'll have to pull it up.
I'm not sure.
Okay.
I just remember that was the song.
Who knew it was Crossroad Kim and Dominion Skunk
at the Crossroad Kim.
Crossroad Kim from 10th Day.
Yeah.
Yeah, and those burnout cams you were selling earlier,
those were a great selection.
Those were super nice.
I know that they went quickly on the website.
So.
I bet they got it on those.
I'm glad they got a good deal.
That's a nice little pack.
That whole little get up.
Thank you, sir.
Oh, no problem.
Anything I can do to help a man, definitely for sure.
He's been a friend.
Like I said, if Duke ever needed something,
if he needed my arm, he's the kind of guy,
I'd cut my arm off and give it to him
because I know that he'd have a damn good reason for needing it.
I know that when I got it back,
it would be better than I gave it to him.
It'd be stronger and he's just the kind of guy
that would do that.
So he's a good guy.
This is a good cause and I appreciate everybody.
I hit up everybody earlier.
I appreciate everybody donating
and keeping their minds down.
But what I've heard as well is that he should be out soon.
He's expecting to be out soon.
And the lawyers have this all worked out
with a certain amount of,
in the Fed system it works on points
or a certain level, level 26, 25, 29s.
So he's got that down in his favor
and hopefully everything goes the way it should.
But you know like.
You know.
What?
We lost you.
Lost you.
And now you're back.
Yeah, incoming phone call.
But so his first charge was a cannabis thing.
And so the second thing was just,
he didn't do anything.
He's had gone.
And so it was just a, you know, really,
it's not like, you know,
it's not like he's the big bad wolf.
I mean, he's got two lame charges on him.
So.
You know what?
I wanted to say that.
I think it was Brian had made you or your wife maybe,
I had made this, the thing for the Duke Diamond.
And there's a picture.
There's a picture.
But you're in the background of this picture.
And I don't know if you know it.
But that's the main one that you put in.
Yeah, from Indo Expo.
And I'm like, listening to you talk.
And then I'm just visualizing like,
no, really, you're actually in the background
helping him there doing something.
I was like, no.
That one, there's you in the right, on the back.
He was that right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think that's the first time he actually had it.
Yeah.
It was on his own.
You know, he was in Colorado.
I was like, you can just,
I can just sell my stuff at your booth.
And I was like, no, no.
I was like, you can, you can have your own booth in my booth.
Just take the end of it.
You can sell your own stuff.
I don't need to sell that.
Just do it.
You know, you're in your hometown.
Just do it.
Sure. I can just help you.
I said, no.
I was like, no, you can do it.
You can sell your own stuff.
So, so yeah.
That's where I go when I want to feel good.
That's that booth.
Where all the breeders hang out.
Good vibes.
Yeah.
Super good vibes.
You want to have a lot of information,
you go to that booth.
One thing that really helped Duke as well,
is that when he first came out,
or he first started the Dominion on his own,
is that he timed it right with Emerald Cup.
And so his first release was timed with Emerald Cup.
And he was able to take jars
and set up a booth in Emerald Cup and be like,
look, fuck you.
Like, I've got, I've got this company.
You know what I mean?
Like, I've got it.
So people can sit at home and say they've got it.
They can bitch and say that you don't have it.
But when I have a jar in front of you, I've got it.
You know what I mean?
You can smell it.
Here it is.
And he had the light, remember?
He had the light thing.
That was 2017, right?
Yep.
Yeah.
And he had the light magnifier and good vibes at that.
Yeah.
And it was, here's, here's,
this has grown just with water.
Yeah.
Duke's, Duke's something else.
He's really, he's the kind of guy,
he's the kind of grower that could walk
into a convenience store, not a convenience store,
but like a shopping store, a grocery store,
and walk out with everything you need to feed the plants.
Like he's that kind of guy.
He knows from, you know, just through experience that,
you know, you can use this instead of that.
You can use this instead of that.
And he's just a good guy.
And it's a shame what's happened,
but you know, things like this will help.
You know, sometimes I'm like, dude, people miss you.
He's like, are you sure?
I was like, no, they do.
Oh yeah.
And for everybody that wants to know, yes,
I would love, I've tried to talk,
so to know Duke is to know Duke,
but I try to talk him into getting letters.
He doesn't want to get letters.
I try to see if I can get him newspapers or magazines.
He can't get those.
And so I, you know, if we had an address to send it to,
I would, I would definitely give it out
and send that address, but he can't do it.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
I mean, he doesn't, he's just like, tell people to save it.
I'll just, I'll be out there by the time
that gets to me anyways.
I said, all right.
And we could throw him a party, you know,
we'll just like put up a booth like that
in the middle of nowhere.
Then everybody can just come hang out.
Everyone can just come hang out.
Whenever he gets released.
Yeah.
We're in Oklahoma, he's close to me,
but I can't, you can't visit,
feds can't visit feds, so I can't.
I was like, damn, I'm so close.
But yeah.
Okay, so what's up?
When he gets out, I can.
Okay, so, so we'll have, all right.
So just so everyone knows what's going on,
we'll have this, which is the James Bean pack,
which is a one, two, three, four, five, six,
seven different packs.
Current high bid is 625 from Tommy Tricones.
Less than a hundred bucks a pack, get a deal.
I know, and we'll let that go for a while,
but why don't you guys put something else up
and we'll get started on it.
And remember, we only have one pack
of whatever you're about to put up.
Yep.
Donations from nerds.
It's the Green Avenger.
That's an original Rosetta, or Rosetta Brothers Grimm,
packaging, the Rosetta stone that I have too
is also in that same original Brothers Grimm
when Duke was part of Brothers Grimm.
And then when we talk about that's Vortex,
that's a Vortex cross, right?
It's a, let me look it up real quick,
but I think it's Apollo 13 in Vortex.
13 in Vortex.
Or Apollo 11 in Vortex.
Vortex for sure.
I don't know.
I forget.
That Vortex was unique.
That was before I really even knew what I was doing.
I wish I would've.
Remember correctly, that was a strain that he made for sub
or in thoughts of sub cool.
Because that Vortex strange was one of subs.
So that was, I believe that was a certain amount.
Yeah.
I was like, why Green Avenger?
I can't sell TGA.
He's like, no, no, no, no.
It's something I did this way.
I was like, okay.
150.
Yeah.
That was a 11.
Oh, it is a 11.
Apollo 11 times Vortex.
And people should know Vortex.
I feel like that everybody felt like
that was pretty unique.
Yeah.
It's Apollo 13 space queen, right?
Space queen.
Space queen.
That came from Ricky, right?
So we had 150.
That one came from Ricky, right?
I think it did.
That the.
I'm so upset in the seeds.
Oh, okay.
Is that what it was?
So something else that Duke did,
and I don't know that a lot of people know this or not,
but if on my website,
there's something called Duke Diamond Vault.
And that was, I picked up a whole bunch of it at one time.
And the way they were is they were just projects
that he had seen where it went and he didn't like it.
Or he was going, wasn't going the way he wanted it to.
And so you'll see a lot of like a lot of his work,
a lot of his homework that he,
just because you take A and cross it with B
doesn't mean you'll always get C.
Sometimes C isn't what you're looking for.
Sometimes you're looking for E or D.
And so you gotta keep looking.
And so you make different crosses with different males
to find what you're looking for.
And he basically bought all of his old homework.
And so there's all kinds of strange in there,
across with Sydney,
with a lot of his homework that he had did with,
they had done with the C99, with P75.
But initially they weren't strange.
He wanted to release it in volume or in mass
because they weren't,
he had seen where that cross had taken him
and it wasn't just what direction he was going.
He was going a different direction.
And so there's nothing wrong with those C's.
It just wasn't where he was going with a particular project.
And so he would look elsewhere,
where he was going with,
and then have those, that excess gear laying around.
And so I was like, dude, it's still good gear.
Let me have it.
But he's just, you know, that's, you know,
the lab readers today will just take things
and cross them with things.
And that's, let's put that out.
That doesn't always work in genetics.
It doesn't, you know, you know, I always,
like I said, A and B doesn't always equal C.
Sometimes grandpa, I got up and says, hey, remember me?
And so you get those recessive traits
that throws the whole fucking thing off.
But Duke was, you know,
and definitely he was a lover of the plant,
a purveyor of the plant,
and tried to help everybody
with as much knowledge as he could, for sure.
And it could break shit down to where
I could understand it even sometimes,
but I was like, oh, okay.
That's why I said he's a good teacher
because he knows how to communicate with his audience.
100% of the time.
So here's a story.
So the first demo cup that he had done,
he was, I was like, okay, bro,
I need you to do this panel.
I was up with the whole, all these breeders.
And I had, you know, DJ Short and the Swamp Boys
and, you know, Exotic and Gennarato and Bog
and fucking everybody, Coastal, everybody was on Duke.
And he's like, I don't know, I'm kind of shy.
I'm kind of, I don't know, you know, I'm kind of shy.
And I was like, eh, it's okay.
So you'll be fine, you'll be fine.
So they, I went to the first hall
we were supposed to have it at.
This was like Saturday at six.
And they didn't have us in that hall.
They didn't even know who we were, so we had to go.
They shipped us over to the second hall.
Went to the second hall.
They knew we were supposed to be there,
but didn't have chairs and microphones set up and shit.
So I was like, okay,
so I didn't want to keep my breeders any longer
because they could be making money at their tables
and I appreciate them being there.
So I was like, okay, just break.
That's just all, we'll do this later.
Forget about it, fuck it, go back to your tables, we're done.
And I thought everybody had gone
and I went, headed off to go look for the, you know,
Tim and Hazel, the promoters of the event
to see what had happened with the miscommunication
on our panel.
And I guess Duke had stayed there.
When I came back like an hour and a half later,
he stayed there and sat on the,
he sat on the, on the stage and just held class
and just like, you know, did, picked questions.
And two hours earlier, he was like,
I'm kind of shy, I don't know if I can do the panel.
I'm kind of nervous about this.
So I turned back and my, my, my operations manager,
Dusty was like, you should have seen him.
He was just up there answering questions and free flowing.
And he just, he was like, well, buddy,
I didn't want to let you down.
He said he needed me for a panel.
So I wanted to do your panel.
I was like, shit, I expected to be the only one
to sit up there and answer questions.
But he sat there for a good hour and a half,
that didn't work out, but just answered,
answered everybody that had any question.
He just, you know, did them one by one.
It was, you know, it was, it was really cool.
Like, you know, the feeling about it.
He was like, I like that.
It was, it was, it was nice.
Yeah, it was cool.
So.
Yeah, definitely echo that with,
we had an event here in Denver
and Duke was the keynote speaker for that event.
And he just graciously would sit there
and answer anybody's question
and actually answer the questions
that have that kind of like, almost generic kind of answer.
Peter Kalmag answer.
Exactly.
Which I feel like, especially in that room that night,
people really appreciate it.
I mean, there was a lot of people there
that had come from all over the country.
It was the night before Indow Expo
and he was dropping some knowledge on that night.
And so there's not too many guys.
Definitely.
Yeah.
He definitely has a way of making connections with people,
like good, strong connections.
Like you feel like, you know, where he's coming from,
you know, where he's standing, you know,
you know where you stand with him.
Like he's going to be straight up with you.
Like there's a, so,
oh, I'll tell it anyways.
So Mark Herrera had wanted a cut of the Jack
and Duke's got pretty damn near the cut as far as I know.
Yeah.
And he wasn't giving it out.
I said, well, this is Mark Herrera.
I said, you know, you gotta give him the cut.
He was like, man, fuck that dude.
I was like, what happened?
He's like, I was trying to sell some glass back there
a couple of years ago and I went in
and he just treated me like shit.
He just treated me like I was nobody
and wouldn't talk to me.
And so I was like, you sure?
I said, he's a really nice guy.
I've never had any problems with him.
He says, no, I remember, I remember.
He was like, he was mean to me.
He wasn't a very nice guy.
I just, nope, I'm not gonna do with him.
And so, you know, he believed in treating people.
And when I first met him, I had originally signed my,
the initial contract, the exclusive contract with Rick
before ever meeting Tommy.
I knew that Rick came out of somewhere
and Rick got his beans out of the safety box,
but there wasn't, there wasn't any cuts.
People weren't watering these cuts
in the safety deposit box.
Like where did he get this base breeding stock from
if he just came out of retirement, right?
Like where'd you get your plants from?
That guy had to be Tommy.
That's what Tommy had to bring to the connection.
And so I originally met with Rick and things were great.
And then I met Tommy, he was at the, at Indoe Expo.
I was leaving, I was, I had to catch a plane
and he was just coming on.
And he's like, he just come up to me
and he's like, how are you doing?
I was like, good.
And we just started bullshitting.
And then I was like, I gotta go catch a plane.
Sorry, he's like, oh, hey, I'm Tommy.
I was like, oh shit, that's nice to meet you.
He was like, yeah, I got this for you.
He started handing me these jars of shit.
I'm like, yeah, let's put this on the plane, fuck it.
Super, super nice guy, but I just,
I didn't know that was him.
I'd never met him and I just, he caught me,
I was leaving out, I just started bullshitting with him.
I had a real, real good one-to-one with him.
And then he comes out, he's like,
oh, I'm Tommy, I'm Rick's partner.
I said, oh shit.
So, definitely it's how you treat people.
You know what I mean?
And people remember that shit.
He was a good dude, good to his word.
And it's how you treat people.
You'd always answer anything and do anything for him.
All right, so let's wrap up the,
the Green Avenger.
What are we, yeah, that was gonna be my next question.
God, Green Avenger, TGA.
Yeah, yeah.
All right, peace out, boo.
Let's see, I think we're at one,
oh, here we go.
Thank you.
Matthew Smith at 165.
There we go.
So this is an example.
Do we have three packs of them?
We do not.
There's only one.
Oh my God, so for real, there's only one pack.
Okay, so this one,
Yeah, for real, there's only one pack.
This one's gonna go to Matthew Smith for 165.
You are gonna be super stoked that you got that.
Okay.
We all do.
So you guys tee up the next one.
I will talk to Matthew in the chat.
Oh, nope, sorry, Big John just sniped it for 175.
175.
Oh, shit.
Okay, five, four, three, two, one.
And Big John, you're gonna be the next one.
And Big John, you are the winner.
Whoops.
Okay, so cue up the next one.
I'll talk to Big John,
which is also what I call my dad.
Maybe that is my dad picking up those seeds.
Everybody is getting tapped in.
All right, so let us know what's next.
I'm talking to Big John.
All right, we got Apollo 11 times P75.
And as James was just talking about,
where did that material come from
that restarted the Brothers Grimm is the P75.
Oh, the back crop, the before 79 and then, right?
Yeah, all that stuff kind of eludes me.
I'm not.
Yeah, so.
I like P75 better, personally.
Actually, James, just quickly,
can you kill the AirPods and just talk?
I think it's gonna sound better without the Bluetooth.
Let's find out.
Okay.
I'm gonna find out.
Let's hear you.
Is that better?
Oh my God, that's amazing, yes.
Okay.
So the P75 is, I knew it.
If when Rick found the first three,
he took what he wanted, Princess, I believe it was.
He back crossed that.
Yep, Princess, he back crossed that
with another male, we'll call him Afghani.
So the product, the result of that is gonna be P50.
And what he started with, 50% of the other male.
So you cross that back to the original one,
and that's P75,
because now you got three quarters of, P50,
and you go back towards, to the mother again,
so you got P75.
And then all the way seven times equals C99.
So the P75 was a step on the way.
That's the second step in the back,
of the, I don't know what's the IDL,
or the back crossing, or the working of Cinderella 99.
Started as Princess 88, or Princess.
75.
And can someone type into the chat
what we have up right now, so I don't have to do it?
So yeah, Apollo 11, crossed with Princess 75,
another donation by Nerds Genetics,
but that was the original.
That's not crossed with Princess 75,
just P75, because that's the male.
Oh yeah, that's right.
That's right.
They have a male called Princess 75,
it's not gonna work for me.
I don't care.
And that's from Nerds Genetics?
No, that's Old Brothers Grimm's pack.
Oh okay, got it.
Oh don't, sorry, he, got it, got it, got it, okay.
But original, original.
All right, is that correct?
Yeah.
Yes.
Look at that, crowdsourcing.
I love it.
Yeah, that's what I was talking about.
Really what's going on in the chat
is like an embodiment of like Duke.
Teamwork.
Right?
So just kind of, yeah.
Helping, it's great, I love it.
If you can't win a bid, you can help out in the chat.
Okay, so let's start it at 100.
We do not have, we just put it up.
Is it one at a time?
Let's start it at 100 and see where it goes.
I grew that in my backyard
and I hashed it and brought it out to Emerald Cup in 2017
when Duke was making his appearance
as Dominion Seed Company with the rest of the group there.
And you know, like, hey, I'm doing my thing with propane.
It's big shit.
Nobody gives a shit about propane in NorCal in 2017.
They wanted nothing to do with that
until they smelled it and then saw it.
And anyway, it was really great.
Propane makes everything gold.
I mean, well, just in general, I feel like,
so I call propane the gentleman, right?
Because it's selective in what it's pulling from the plant.
But anyway, it made really, really excellent hash
that was grown all organic with all the bugs in the soil
and all the happiness.
And that plant attracted lacewing larvae to this plant.
And I had never in my life seen them.
And as a matter of fact, coincidentally,
I took a picture of these eggs
because I'd never seen them in my life.
And I'm like, what is this?
Is this bad?
And I sent it to Duke and he was like, you know?
I'm not really sure what those are
because I'm like, they look like upside down balloons
hanging from my plant.
And I just had never seen them before.
And then all of a sudden I just had all these,
what are they called?
Aphid lions, I feel like lacewing larvae.
I see.
Lacewings are.
Absolutely, they're better than ladybugs even.
Yeah.
Ladybugs are kind of a waste of money
compared to green lacewings.
So I didn't do any of that,
but because of that lovely plant,
it attracted all kinds of awesome to my yard.
So automatic IPM, I guess.
Cool.
Well, I've got to help Santa pack all these boxes
from Black Friday.
All right.
If you don't know what the Black Friday boxes
you're getting packed, we're doing them.
Get off me.
No.
We're packing them, we're getting them gone.
So I'll throw this out there too for the chat
because I appreciate checking.
I will ship internationally.
Ooh, all right, there we go.
That's big.
Can we get from you then so we can open up things?
Yep.
You with that?
No, what?
What?
Just to stop him from what he does.
She asked if we could get all the packs to you
that people win.
Cause originally we just said US, but.
Yeah, no.
No, I will ship mine.
Yeah.
Okay.
All right.
So I'll let you know who won it.
This is what it is.
It's the James Bean Santa special, the JBP.
So when you're bidding for it, just type in JBP.
So I know that you're not bidding for the,
and we'll run that one for a little bit longer.
I think the current high bid was like 675
or something like that.
And we appreciate your time
and I'll let you know who picks it up.
No problem.
And hopefully someone international.
Yeah.
I'll see.
Well, it's great gear
and I'm excited to get those genetics overseas
cause it's, you guys have mentioned it before.
It's all about genetics.
And that's a good lot of really good,
really good stuff in there.
So.
Sorry, we're currently at 625.
That's under a hundred bucks a pack.
So somebody should definitely be able to do that.
Okay.
That's the thing about Tommy.
He always had great prices on his gear
and his birthday is close to the 4th of July.
So he always had a great 4th of July sale.
So, all right guys, have a good day.
See you.
Thank you.
Okay.
So we have, the burnout is already done.
Someone just asked about the burnout.
Yes, it is.
Strong style organics.
Yeah, it is.
Hello.
I used to say, I'll take you to the moon.
So we're currently on the Apollo 11 P75 cross.
And that current bid was one something.
Oh, look at that.
My God, this is super helpful.
I know, thank you.
All right, let's do this for 30 more seconds
and then we'll move on to the next one.
Cause I got a P and it seems like we got a bunch
of packs to go, right?
Couple.
Yeah.
Oh, sorry.
And then, oh yeah.
Okay.
Vision creator.
All right, Tara, I see this.
You want to donate.
Okay.
All right.
10 seconds.
Currently Southern Vermont grower.
It's the Zaza.
At one time.
How do you know it's Zaza?
That's right, Jackson.
Okay.
So we're going to call it.
And do we have one pack or two packs?
We can do two packs.
Yeah.
Okay.
So DJ Slater at a hundred and Southern Vermont grower
at one 10.
And I'm going to hold you to that one 10
cause it's only $10 more than the hundred.
All right.
So let me, so why don't you guys,
why don't you guys tell us what's next
and I'll let them know where they can make their donation.
All right.
All right.
Let's see.
Next we can go with the Hashmaster.
Some work Duke did with the Brothers Graham as well.
This is a pack of eight seeds.
It's like, that's all that fit in this vial.
Again, this is the Hashmaster.
That's exactly right.
That sounds promising.
Yeah, it was one of the Indica lines that Duke did
with Brothers Graham.
That and this one, right?
And is that one word Hashmaster or two words?
It's one word.
I don't know how much info that'll be on it.
Did that have the skelly?
The James Bean is, whoop, that's not what I meant.
We got a hundred on the Hashmaster.
Eric asks, is that one pack of each for the,
yeah, it's one of each.
So seven packs in total.
So seven packs in total.
I assume it's 10 per pack, maybe 12,
but he's not on anymore, so.
He might be paying attention.
What?
Yeah.
James Bean, if you're paying attention,
let us know seven packs
and how many beans approximately per pack.
Look at that.
People want obviously all these hash washers,
their ears perked up.
Appreciate your skelly wag.
So you saw this.
Can you guys read that?
Oh yeah, here we go.
15 Roberts Creek Congo S1, you can.
Nice.
Okay, so that's from Vision Creator.
So maybe we do that next.
Wow. Absolutely.
Okay, so anyway.
So on the current one for all the Hashmasters out there
or aspiring Hashmasters,
our high bid is currently, and how many-
Master Kush with an Afghani?
Spot check.
Are you talking about Hashmaster?
This bud has unknown genetics.
I feel like there's something else with the Master Kush,
but it's definitely crossed with that Afghani,
but for the Hashmaster, I don't know why.
Okay, well we're at 160.
Saying Master Kush pure Afghani must be-
Yeah, it's-
I would venture to say it's the Kandahar, but-
Ah, okay, so hold on.
Let me spot check.
I just don't remember it being a Master Kush cross.
We're all-
You see this thing?
It should be an Afghani descendant
due to its effects and appearance.
Yeah, we were talking about that,
but it says Master Kush crossed with the-
You think it's the Kandahar?
I mean, if that's Afghani it is crossed with
or if that's just a generic thing that they got it from
and it was a Master Kush Afghani cross.
That's why I wish Bean was on because-
And then it was a secret mail to that.
I don't know.
Do you see that comment I just put up?
Master Kush, yeah.
Yeah, just that Master Kush.
I was stumbling on that
because I just didn't remember them having that.
That's what I thought it was, what 90U says.
The Master Kush and the Kandahar.
Oh, good, cosines on that.
That's some hot shit.
Okay, here's another one.
That is the one it is.
I mean, we're talking about the brother's groom,
the one he did for Rick, the brother's groom.
Duke's handwriting there.
Yeah.
Hand model.
Hand model.
And then if you flip it around, can you see through it?
Wait.
It's backwards, you know?
Wait, let me-
Oh.
Your bag has a little history on it, you know?
Yep.
It does.
Thanks again for all of these amazing donations.
Absolutely.
Go, nerds.
Okay, so we are at 170.
Appreciate you, DJ Slayer.
Yeah.
And up next, we will do the Roberts Creek Congo.
Okay.
It sounds like a Duke comment.
Yeah, kind of in the bazaar.
Okay, 20 more seconds.
We're at 170 with DJ Slayer.
How many seeds are in there again?
Eight seeds.
But act full in the little vial.
Ready to pop some taproots.
Exactly.
They're eager to be put into soil or hydropoos.
Just soil.
Dirt weed for the win, bro.
All right, we gotta, ah, look at that.
All right, DJ Slayer definitely wants the Hashmaster.
There we go, look at this.
All right, we'll give it 10 more seconds.
See these guys battle it out.
I like that name.
Isn't that a Saved by the Bell?
Yeah.
I think so.
We got 185.
200.
They want those.
210.
All right, we'll just.
This is fun.
Got some live action now.
Jane, you need to hype this battle up.
Who's gonna win?
Who do you have your money on?
Oh, I don't know.
DJ Slayer.
Scallywag or DJ Slayer?
Slayer.
Scallywag came quick with it.
I do.
Scallywag has.
Who has the faster internet?
Yeah.
DJ Slayer.
Well said, you and Gro Bro.
What is that?
It's pretty cool to put this together kind of quickly
and have so many people be a part of it.
Yeah.
Okay, five seconds to see if DJ Slayer can top the 210.
Three, two, one.
All right, Scallywag, it is yours.
Ooh.
And all right, I'll deal with Scallywag.
You guys tell us what's next.
And then if someone can post in the chat what's next
so I can post it up on the screen
while I'm not paying attention.
And go.
What are we gonna do?
Oh yeah, sorry.
The Congo.
Yeah, Roberts Creek.
Tara, can you post that again?
While you're doing your dab, can you post what's up next?
I think it's dab time in this house.
All right.
All right, so let's take a little dab.
Wait, so hold on.
Did we get a snipe here?
What happened?
DJ Slater at 215.
215, I told you.
My man.
I'm back at 220.
Poor woman.
Scallywag came back.
Oh wow, all right.
220, you really want that.
And I just wanted to take my bathroom break.
Go ahead.
All right, you guys keep track of when I come back.
Hopefully it's at 400.
I'll be right back.
And everybody can watch these three dab.
And bring standing coma.
He's up there too.
He deserves a dab.
Standing coma.
Oh, Vision Creator says it's land race Congolese.
Standing coma.
They got, they have, they got shit.
Come on, fucker.
Still to go.
One dab too many.
All right, so we're still doing here the Hashmaster.
Scallywag says, we can pick up seeds in Denver.
Sounds good to me.
Yeah, absolutely.
I'm all dope.
For cash.
Yeah.
Look guys, I mean, this is,
and we appreciate you guys paying today,
paying on time and all that stuff,
because this is as quick as we can get that out.
We want to make sure that that Duke knows that,
you know, this is for him and that it's there.
Appreciate everybody involved as well.
Just later at 225.
Scallywag, you got to answer.
You're talking about picking up the beans.
Got to seal the deal, buddy.
Where we at?
225?
225.
We got a,
DJ Slater 16 at 225.
Okay, I'm back.
All right.
We're still running the Hashmaker at 225.
We need to get it done soon.
These guys are in a shootout.
Yeah, that was not a lot of movement.
Yeah.
About $10 up.
All right.
Okay, so let's call it DJ Slater.
Slater at 225.
And.
Okay, so next up we have
the Speedpea.
Thanks for watching.
Speedpea.
That was true.
Speedpea.
Okay.
Yo, yo, hi.
Congolese land registry.
Hi from the UK.
Yeah, thank you so much for that.
So next up is the,
boom.
There it is.
Okay, and DJ, I will.
Okay, DJ, no problem.
So you want, DJ wants the next one too.
Ooh.
But DJ, let me send you,
if you can remember this.
Actually, if any of the people helping out with moderation
can post the Venmo and the PayPal.
Yeah.
So I don't have to do it every single time.
That would be amazing.
You could just have it floating in the background
or something on that black screen if you can.
I don't know if that's possible though.
That's high tech.
That'd be a way of pinning a comment.
Yeah, like a, oh, oh yeah.
Ooh, pin comments.
Who's moderating the chat?
Peter.
We got a whole.
Kara Krameshia.
There we go.
Yes, thank you.
Oh my God.
Look at that.
That was amazing.
The team, everyone's witnessing the team
come together in real time.
Okay, so right now we have.
Treats on me.
Nate Shine asked a while ago about the six mil.
No six mil.
You need to reach out to James Bean on that one.
Okay, so right now we're on from Vision Creator.
Let's put a, give me one second.
Okay, so.
Did Tara want to iso those?
Yeah, Tara, let me, all right, Tara, hold on.
Jump on.
Tara's gonna bring the hype.
Give me one second.
Boom, boom, boom.
All right, Tara, check your IG.
And bring your high energy.
Giving energy.
Very cool.
How long are we doing the seven pack for?
Like even after the show or when the show ends?
No, no, no, no, no.
We'll call the seven pack.
Well, nobody's been bidding on the seven.
It's still at 625.
All right, Tommy's the one asking.
That's because Tommy's the one who bid the high bid.
Someone else outbid Tommy.
Tommy, Tommy, Tommy hopes everyone else fell asleep on that.
He's like, go ahead, call that pack, man.
Well, Magma Seeds is asking if you go to Spain,
Bean's will for you, so.
Yes, so the seven pack will ship globally.
And James Bean is entirely responsible for that.
So they're talking about the Hashmaster.
I think Scallywag.
Yeah, Hashmaster is behind on things.
Tara can't jump out.
How about Tara, in the chat, hype this out.
Or is Vision, does?
This might be Sasquatch.
Almost.
Oh, sweet.
Hello?
This is Matt.
Hi, hold on a second.
Let me put my headphones back on
and then put you on the speaker.
It's Sasquatch, it's the real Sasquatch.
Okay, so right now we got.
We're gonna have him talk.
Sorry, we're doing an auction in the background here,
but Sasquatch is on.
No problem, I'm just glad I got the signal now.
I can actually make a phone call.
So you're just held up to the microphone here
and you can just talk.
Nice.
Everyone's watching and listening.
What do you got to say about Duke?
You know, it's what hasn't really already been said so far
that I've heard.
You know, the guy is beyond generous
and truly, truly down for the plant.
Extremely passionate for the plant.
And it's been really nice knowing him
and being able to share that passion with somebody else.
Yeah.
Hey Matt, can we go into like the Vulcan death grip?
I love that and talk about that for a little bit.
Yeah, sure.
That was one of Duke's limited creations.
It was the Vic Highs cut of the Space Queen
by Duke's Skunk One male.
Yeah, quite the plant, that's for sure.
Yeah, when you were first starting to grow Duke's gear,
what were the certain genetics?
I know like terpenes is really like your thing.
You just kind of saw that in his gear
when you first started growing his genetics.
You know, I actually linked up with Duke
when he was still working with Brothers Grimm.
And I got quite a bit of, man,
he gave me so much different stuff to play with.
A lot of the P75 and Vortex crosses,
you know, because being from out here in Oregon,
he knew that, you know, those strains kind of,
you know, circulated around.
I'd probably, it probably hit my palate nicely
and I definitely, definitely enjoyed them.
There was some, lots of rotten tropical fruit.
And, you know, one of the Finos,
it was, it literally, it was just cilantro
short of being the armpit of like
a Mexican restaurant worker.
Yeah, greasy armpit terps.
Yeah, it was the foulest in the best way.
Yeah, it was kind of funny.
I was actually just trimming on some dom dog
a little bit earlier.
Oh yeah?
What's that smell like?
You know, I ran, I had,
he gave me a bunch of fems of that
and I ran a small group of them,
a decent seed pop group.
And it was really interesting.
I got everything from,
there was the C99 leaning side of things.
So very, you know, once again,
the kind of the rotten tropical fruit sort of thing.
And then it, you know, all the way to the really fuely
side of things from the chem.
You know, there was one that had a kind of a grape soda
kind of thing going with it.
Another really small group had,
you know, I call it rose soap.
It just, you know, those little decorative rose,
little potpourri soaps that like old ladies
have in the back of their toilets.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Like the ones that have that little wrapping
that like goes around?
Yeah, those are the ones that you take it off and-
Yeah, those are the ones that get used.
They just sit there for like 20 years.
You do.
I use them.
See?
Yeah, it was pretty, pretty good.
Yeah.
I will second what you were saying earlier, Jane.
Those earlier Rosetta stones were something else.
I ran some of those too.
Do you still have a cut of that?
I don't, but I think,
I think I have one pack of soap left of that.
I think, stashed away.
So do I, and I'm putting in $600 on it
in this situation here.
Because I like, well, actually Nerds gave it.
I don't know if you heard in the beginning,
but he was like, you can have this,
or, you know, it can go in the auction.
I'm like, ah, like if it's gone out of my life,
do I need to let it go?
Cause it kind of still like,
it's like a boyfriend that keeps coming back.
This is really good.
But it's so good that you're like,
oh yeah, I remember how good the sex was or something,
you know, and then you're like,
well, maybe I'll grow that again.
You know?
Yeah, it really was,
So that's why I'm obviously paying a lot of money
for that boyfriend.
So whatever.
Whatever.
I'm glad you called.
You know what I appreciate?
I appreciate that you always had like really,
really, really fucking fun hash from all of these genetics.
Yeah, it's been a really fun ride running Duke's Gear.
It's just so solid.
And it's one of the things I really appreciate about it
because my growing style is pretty extreme maybe.
It's just really high octane.
I push the plants as hard as possible
to elicit the terpene response.
And it's nice knowing that I can run gear
that isn't gonna start throwing nanners
because you've stressed it out so much.
And it's really truly as a plant
that should be stressed to the absolute max.
Cause we're not harvesting flowers,
we're harvesting the oil that's on the flowers.
Yeah, in this case, right?
In this case, you know what I was thinking in my head,
I used to think of really funny things
when I was in the garden
and what you're saying about the inducing
certain terpene production
without the negative consequences that come from that.
The turn in the screw is turning on their cues, right?
Yeah.
Like to be like, hey, do this.
Yeah.
And it's really nice too that he also,
he puts all that information of what to do
and what not to do
and a really good rundown of how his plants
are gonna generally run right on the pack for the public,
which that is so rare to find in breeders these days.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The one just to move this,
move some things forward a little,
this 15 Roberts Creek Congo S1,
I know that the one woman that was,
I think it's a woman, it could be anyone really,
Tara Lee Clive or something, right?
Or Vision, what is it?
Vision Creator?
Yeah.
Has the Roberts Creek said it was Lemon Tree Cleaner,
Eve, when somebody was asking what that was all about
and is that auction,
that auction is that 2.30 is where we're at,
I feel like.
We're currently at 2.30 for the high bid.
On those, that generous.
Yeah, like give it to me.
Like anything, you know what?
People need to bring back two things in my opinion,
all you people out there doing really cool stuff
and stuff with these seeds,
make me things that have pine and then mango.
I just, you know, it's not around that much right now.
I just want it.
Yeah, I want like a piney mango dab, you know?
And mangoes kind of piney, I feel like in itself, isn't it?
I don't know, I feel like it kind of is,
but together I want those things.
Can you make me stuff like that, Sasquatch?
I have it.
Sasquatch brings out the turps, I have to have that.
Oh, yeah you do.
Hey, you did the Screaming Eagle last time,
two times before I saw you.
Could you talk a little bit about that?
The Screaming Eagle?
Yeah.
Yeah, I started running that.
Duke gave me some of that to run for my Vietnam patient
that I provide for.
Since that Screaming Eagle was a, you know,
he pretty much created that specifically for veterans
and to treat PTSD.
I know that was initially a veteran's first release
when he did that.
Yeah, that one was pretty interesting.
I had some that leaned a little more towards
the 88 G13 ash plant.
Definitely had a few that were a little more
airborne G13 leaning.
Even had one that was definitely more of the
Kandahar Afghani that was just an absolute
bulletproof pheno.
I mean, I ran that into the coldest of cold temperatures
and bugs didn't like it, mold didn't like it.
It just turned absolutely beautiful,
like fall colors when it was done.
Are there any genetics from Duke that you grew this year?
I wish I would have been able to link up and talk.
Let's see, so I've got the, well,
just turning on some of that Dom Dog that he did.
Actually the Dom Dog Femme version.
Right now I'm sitting here smoking a Vulcan Death Grip
number one random cross.
What?
Oh my God.
Can you donate or something?
It's true that you're the only one with that, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, anybody else?
It is so unique.
Yeah, I think he still has maybe a couple seeds left.
Yeah, it is.
It's so, it is unique.
It's piney, it's got lime, it's got a cleaner thing.
And it's that lime one is just so,
or the Vulcan one is just so amazing in, like I said,
in carts, live resin just goes straight in there.
Don't have to pull any THC out or anything.
It's so terpy.
You feel satisfied after a pull or two
where a lot of those other carts
you're just sitting there hitting it all day long.
Yeah, yeah.
It's effective.
It hits.
It's probably the best expectorant
that I've ever had out of cannabis.
It'll turn your lungs inside out and scrape them clean.
We actually kind of did for a while.
We were joking around calling that the lung scraper phenyl
because that's what it does.
Yeah, it was horrible to watch like cigarette smokers
take a big hit of that and then just die
as their lungs tried to turn inside out.
But it was nice too because you know,
usually you don't smoke.
All right, am I back?
Can you guys hear me?
Yes.
That was kind of a fun ride in itself too
because it was so psychoactive
that it almost felt like you had eaten
some sort of psychedelics a little while earlier.
They were starting to come on
and everything gets all fuzzy and vivid and glowy.
Oh man, that was a pretty good one.
Did you read this comment?
Man's comment?
I remember watching a lady cry from a dab of that
and then I thanked him.
Oh, and then somebody else said,
oh my God, I didn't realize it was the Sasquatch
until Vulcan death threat.
Yeah, that was fun.
I got to bring a whole bunch of that Vulcan one sauce
out to the Denver.
To me?
Yeah.
That was fun, really.
That was fun sharing that.
Yeah, people were like, holy smokes, what is this?
How are your chickens?
Oh, many, many, many, many.
Still gonna come and get some someday, I swear.
When y'all just, it's been a little,
have you just been like hiding out?
Cause I feel like it gets a little,
things can get a little,
or trying to keep, you know, keeping it positive,
but I want to travel up into there where you are.
And then I'm like,
I feel like things need to chill out a little
in that Oregon area.
You know, I don't know.
Portland's kind of blown out of proportion, but it's nice.
I'm outside Portland in the woods, so.
Yeah, there's a lot of people hiding out
kind of where you are and I like that.
I think that's a little community.
Yeah, it's a great little area out here.
Nice little banana belt, a lot of like-minded people.
And yeah, it's great out here.
And life just, life hasn't really changed
with even all the lockdowns and everything else.
I mean, you're out in the woods and so.
Are you calling on the dial-up
or does your cell phone actually work?
No, I'm calling through wifi right now.
Yeah, that's what I was like, is it still like the DSL?
Yeah, pretty much.
You're really, really clear.
That's why I was just surprised.
It's really clear.
Yeah, I haven't had really good reception.
I was trying to call in earlier,
but the reception has just been horrible out here.
More and more people I think are home,
so the cell towers are taxed.
Yeah.
But it's been, yeah, it's been great out here.
Just, you know, get a little hunting done,
fill in the freezers and.
I saw that.
And yeah, that thing tastes good.
Yeah.
You can't beat some fresh medicine.
You know what, I feel like all of it,
so I'm from Ohio originally, right?
And I feel like all of my friends put,
they'll like put their pictures of them hunting
with the animals.
If I do any more dabs, I'm gonna fall over.
I need to go get my seat.
I'm gonna go get, I haven't eaten, that's what it is.
I'm like, ugh.
Okay, I need to like bring it down.
Just quickly, we have John at 300.
Yeah, it'll be nice when Duke gets out
and get back to enjoying some freedom
and doing his thing, that's for sure.
I know a lot of people miss him
and appreciate what he does.
Yeah, I, people are, a whole bunch of people
are writing in and asking if there's anything
with Screaming Eagle available.
None of the.
The Delta Blues?
Delta Blues.
Delta Blues has Screaming Eagle Cross.
I don't have anything.
Oh, just Screaming Eagle?
Yeah, any Screaming Eagle.
I don't have any.
I don't think anybody has any.
Did not go at the Expo?
That, I don't, did they not,
I don't even think they had that then, no?
Yeah, that's.
I know we don't have any of it right now.
Yeah, that's, yeah, east side of Cleveland over here,
but I've been in Colorado the past six years.
But I love, I always do a hashtag OHIGHO, Ohio proud,
because I'm really fucking Ohio proud all the time.
Anyway, yeah, no Screaming Eagle anything, I don't think.
If anybody's got any of that,
and you want to share any of those.
You can let us know.
But while we're waiting, what do we want to throw up next?
Okay, so wait, so we've got 300 on Wilhelm for those.
What about this situation?
This is gonna be a big boy right here.
This is gonna be for somebody who wants to,
following Duke's footsteps,
select a good female or male and move on somewhere else.
Figure four.
Did we ever find out exactly what it was, the triangle fish?
I wrote it down.
Oh yeah, figure four.
It's something really long.
That's what he thought it was though.
No, no, no, but James Bean got on and then talked about it.
TK and Skelly, but it's something else.
So I thought that there was something more with it, but.
Skelly Skunk.
Skelly Skunk.
I think so.
But that's the one we definitely, maybe next year.
So that's the one that we were talking about earlier.
We should have started up at the time
because we spent a long time talking about it.
But James came on and talked about it too
because it was never released, right?
It was never released, but it was.
These were used in his last drop.
A male from this was used in his last drop.
Okay.
Okay, so what's going on right now?
There's only one pack of these.
The figure four.
It's the Dominion seed times Swamp Boy seeds.
Can I just put you in here?
Cause I feel like, nope.
How do I not hold the phone?
I think if you have like a t-shirt or a sweatshirt,
you can put on the table in front of the mic
and just lay the phone on it.
Just something soft.
Okay, so the lineage on the figure four
is Triangle Kush times.
How about that?
Screaming Eagle.
I just thought of it for a minute.
Screaming Eagle is airborne G13,
Skelly Hash Plant Skunk number one.
Okay, so there are, what do we got?
Can someone type that in the chat?
There's 12 seeds in this donation.
Josh is at 140.
Again from nerds, thank you, Robbie and Carlos.
You fucking slay.
And this was direct from some of these things.
Robbie's like, oof, it's gonna hurt a little.
But can't pop them all, right?
So might as well spread them all over the world
so that everybody else can.
That's a very nice gesture.
Yeah, super dope.
Yes, the Congo is done.
Congo's done.
You win, Jonathan.
You were the winner at 300.
Fantastic job.
All right, 180.
290 micron.
90 micron.
I like that.
Do you make good stuff?
Because I bet you do.
Natural farming at 250.
Very nice, yeah.
Dedication goes to 60.
Gotta be deadhead people, right?
Get it.
I don't know.
So many people have different meanings
when they have their avatar signs or names and stuff.
Yeah, I was thinking like Grateful Dead.
And you know what?
That's something we also didn't talk about,
like how much.
Well, I don't know why,
but if you notice, you know, DEM and all those people,
people that are deadheads.
What is that, crazy?
Dead family, right?
That is a big thing for all y'all.
Crazy lazy days, 58.
Appreciate it.
300.
310.
Yeah.
These are hot.
These are hot stuff.
These are hot, everybody.
Can we bring that to the Ohio MMJ program?
I just hope they could just like,
you know, loosen up just a little.
Yeah, that would be really nice to bring some.
Shout out Speedwolf.
Yeah.
I agree with Speedwolf.
Figure for a mysterious cornerstone
building block genetics, yeah.
Solid.
It's already been proven, really.
Dukes Gear is a building block for certain things
that you can take on your own and run with it.
That is for sure.
Yeah, I was thinking like Grateful Dead.
So we still at 310?
Yeah.
Whose speaker phone are we listening to?
It's probably Sasquatch.
Oh, yeah, is it you?
Are you still here?
Hey, I'm doing some, are you feeding your chicken?
She'll come back.
What are you doing?
There we go.
Shout out.
There you go.
320.
Yeah, I like these Ohio people.
Yeah, dedication grows.
What state are you in, Patrick?
Cleveland.
Look at all these Ohio people.
Yeah.
Should have said that earlier.
What is the seven pack thing up to?
Man, that's still at 625.
Tommy Tricomes is patiently waiting.
He's talking about me and he's sweating.
Oh, man, let's get it.
Let's get it.
So dedication and then DJ Slater.
Shout out dedication.
People that know what these are really worth.
Yeah, if I had the money, I'd bet on these
and that Congo they threw up.
I like that.
I just don't have it.
Shout out to bring that to the forefront.
Akron, yeah.
Old, I don't know how old you are, Tommy Tricomes,
but I was talking about the old school rave scene
from the 90s and Akron was bumping.
Akron was pretty bumping.
They had a really cool rave scene in like 95.
There's a lot of Ohio people on here.
It's pretty impressive.
Everybody needs to get together
and share all your genetics
and make some flame to spread around.
You guys all up in that Meigs County and everything,
all the, where's like my Lemon G people.
Okay, so we're at 375.
Let's go for another minute.
Yeah, I've got a couple interesting new ones
that I made with that Vulcan death group.
Oh, yeah?
On accident.
There was a Kerbal Fantasy.
Okay, oh.
So it's like a 92 LA Kush by Mountain Man Perps.
That one kind of turned out super hashy.
Kind of tastes the Mendo or the Perps in it.
Kerbal Fantasy?
Yeah, Kerbal Fantasy.
Do you know what's super crazy?
I went to a little girlfriend's house
at the end of my street,
and she straight up had some of that hash the other day.
Oh, wow.
And I was like, Kerbal Fantasy?
But, and it came from a Colorado Springs medical dispensary.
Nice.
Yeah, there's some good ones in there.
That's weird.
The other one is Lime OG by Vulcan Death Group.
All right.
That should be one of those ones from Exotic Mike.
And holy smokes, yeah, that one is just,
it's beyond terpy.
I think a couple of the Finos
are probably gonna be pushing double digits on the flowers.
Just quickly, are we currently on the figure four?
What are we currently doing?
Probably hit about 10% or so.
Figure four.
We are, we're on figure four,
but we're talking to Sasquatch about his cool crosses.
You made them?
Yeah, it was just kind of an accident.
You know, one of those things.
You know, when we're slowing down.
Happy accidents.
You're super clever.
I keep reading the comments.
Yeah, Death Star and Lemon G.
Those always seem to be the best,
those little happy accidents.
Yeah, like Bob Ross and his trees, right?
Isn't that?
That's Bob Ross, right?
Didn't he talk about the little accidents?
Yeah, but they were like little accidents.
Like it was just like.
Oh, wait till we have seeds?
Oh, we'll just plant these seeds here.
That'll make some happy little trees.
Yeah, dumpster for sure.
I don't, I know people will throw mad money for a dumpster.
We're talking about all these Ohio cats
in the chat over here talking about things,
great things that came from Ohio, specifically Meg's.
I feel like a few counties right on that border there
going into West Virginia.
And the Lemon G.
How long are we gonna hold that three seconds?
Oh yeah.
I think let's give it five more seconds.
If someone wants to snipe, dedication grows.
And he talks about the dumpster all the time.
The dumpster, somebody's like, I got a rack for that.
If you got any seeds, no.
If any of my Cleveland friends listen, if you got them,
people will pay.
All right, dedication grows.
All right, dedication grows.
375, thank you so much.
Thank you for that.
So kind.
Do you guys have snow yet out there
in the right now in Denver?
Yeah, they have more there than mine.
Can you post where dedication grows should go?
I wish I had snow out here.
Now dedication grows, you already, oh shit.
Sorry, we have some sniping going on.
So Josh tried to take it away,
but dedication grows stole it right back.
Yeah, but you have precipitation, don't you?
Cause I don't have any precept at all.
I haven't since like July and people come to my house
and I'm an hour from here and it's like 60 and sunny
and I don't know what the hell's going on.
I step outside of my house and it's like snowy and weird.
I don't get it.
I don't know what's going on.
Okay, dedication grows picked it up.
Dedication grows sniped it back.
That's what I saw.
A 390?
Yeah.
All right, what's next?
I mean, that person really like, thank you dedication.
Cause they were seriously dedicated to that.
The Munson?
I was thinking about doing that.
Yeah, the Munson.
Okay.
Munson is next.
It's also a gift from Robbie from NERGENETICS.
As you can tell by the Munson handwriting.
And it has his name on it.
It has Robbie's name on it too.
It was just for him.
Yep.
So that is a 13 seed pack of Munson.
And just quickly, Joshua Kunkler.
Now these are all US only.
Oh yeah.
Thank you, Steve Blanco.
So if you're in the US.
Yes.
Or if you want to bid on the big one.
Or you want to donate them to a friend in the US.
Oh yeah.
If you want to bid on the one from James Bean,
that one is international, 625.
See if we can get some more on that.
Tommy Tricones.
Standing by for the win.
Thanks for calling Sasquatch.
Straight Munson.
That's right, Tommy Tricones.
Yeah, sorry.
I just couldn't try calling a little earlier, but.
That's all right.
Thanks for calling.
And thanks for all the stuff you had.
If you have any of those seeds that you made on accident
that you want to throw in.
There's a question on the screen.
Yeah, straight Munson.
That's a Northern Lights 5 times Dominion Skunk.
That is correct.
All right.
So who wants it?
Yeah.
All right, we hear the hype.
I've smoked it.
Straight Munson.
There's a jar right there.
Yeah, let's get that.
The Tea Whitty.
Did you bring that?
All right.
We'll just call this the Tea Whitty Munson.
But it's pretty cool that this was grown.
So shout out to Mr. Tea Whitty.
Yeah, Strong Style Organics,
when we can actually have events again.
I want to do a whole bunch of events around the country
and just have everybody get together and meet in person
and put their YouTube names on their...
Like we'll give everyone name tags with their YouTube names.
All right.
Yeah, I never used to do that.
People never put their social medias there.
Yeah.
So thanks, Sasquatch.
I'm going to get off the phone now.
Definitely.
It was so good talking to you guys.
Nice talking to you too.
I don't know if I can talk with you somebody else.
Thanks again.
Bye.
So we have a clarification.
Now the figure four, I think, was just one pack.
Single pack.
Yeah, it was just a single pack.
So that was a grateful...
Dedication grows.
Dedication grows.
So yeah, Dedication Grows picked up that one.
And now we're on to the Munson.
So I thought I saw a couple of bids on that one.
Yeah, the Munson.
You even grow, bro.
Tyler has...
Yeah, he has something Munson, which I actually have.
Let me look through my stuff to see what Munson...
But we're at 200.
I was going to say too, they don't have...
There's not a lot of the Munson left, right?
Like I wonder if Bean has any.
I was supposed to say good luck finding it.
Yeah, it's a big deal.
Especially the way that that's written
where it's the friend pack, the homie pack.
You know, here's it here.
Here you go, dude.
So he had like special letters for each thing.
He'd be like, I know it's my handwriting because this.
I was like, man, what?
See the weeds.
That's what's also kind of cool for that,
especially for the real seed.
Yeah, the headies.
Yeah, the headies that are...
Yeah, the seed savers are the...
Yeah, I want that.
Thank you.
Thank you, dedication, bro.
Thank you so much.
All right, we're at 220.
Ride mighty high.
Ride mighty high again.
All right.
Showing up big for Duke today.
Yeah, I like it.
Okay.
Love those vanilla croissants.
Bacon grease, mega babe,
Pam, dog walker,
dog beach.
Can I put those in jars?
Yeah, why not?
While they're in a sea vault with a...
Oh, one of those.
The bacon grease.
Dog beach, pandemic.
Shout out to Matthew Smith.
230.
230.
250, Matthew Smith.
Fish whistle.
Oh, you guys are tied.
250.
All right, that's fine.
A little excitement.
I mean, that's good stuff.
You guys ever play War as a kid?
Yeah, as a kid.
I'm still playing that War.
You get to match the card.
That's what I feel like that bet was.
I missed that game.
Oh, then you have to go like this.
I never saw that game ever.
War?
I never seen that game.
Oh, you like-
The cards?
Yeah, your cards go against each other,
and then whoever has the most cards wins.
The higher-
Nintendo, hard core.
If you throw a five, I throw a five,
and you gotta go W-A-R.
Yeah.
Yeah, like, and then you put two face down,
and then your third one face up, right?
And then the face up one wins,
and then you're hoping to score the good stuff
that's face down.
Yeah, my kids still, we definitely play War.
So, Underground Organic, I'm in,
actually this summer I was there too.
I'm in Rhode Island every summer, so.
Seeing my parents-
You like it over there too?
I like your logo there, Underground Organic.
People are awesome over on-
300!
It's impressive.
Thanks, Fish Whistle.
They know.
They know.
Yeah.
Man, in Atlanta, they used to put these, like,
muffler things on the back of these cars,
and they'd go, that woo woo!
Like that.
That's what that reminded me of.
It's fun.
It's like the louder it was, the cooler it was.
I was thinking like-
All right, so we're still at three,
we're still at 300?
Yeah.
Fish Whistle.
Fish Whistle.
Anybody wanna go up from 300?
Yeah.
Pop the countdown.
All right, so let's do 30 seconds left.
Check your pockets.
Lemon Hoko, I see you.
Give me a call after this.
Layton is a road warrior.
420?
Oh no, he's a fake.
I fret Layton, you're so-
What's up, brothers?
I was just checking in with you, buddy,
because everybody in the chat,
they're like, you drive a lot, man.
Yeah.
I'm just giving you a tip of the hat.
Where is he going?
Is it just on a loop?
No, no, I went out to visit my son
for his 21st birthday.
Oh, that's awesome.
In Bellingham, Washington.
So now I'm headed back to SoCal,
and I'm actually getting off near Grant's Pass,
so I might drop out, but I'll check back in
once I get out of the car.
That's a pretty drive.
But I'm enjoying this, you guys.
I'll be through GP next week, I think.
I have to be down in SoCal, and then up in NorCal,
and maybe a little Oregon, and then back to Colorado,
so I'll be doing that too.
Doing it.
It's the loop.
It's the loop, man.
Where are you going in SoCal?
A couple of lab visits, I think,
probably Sandy area to say hi to a friend,
and then got some LA cats and commerce,
maybe over to Catfish.
Come say hi to me, I'm in LA.
I'm in LA.
You are?
Okay.
I have to, all right.
Yeah, we'll all meet up.
We're been all right.
Wait, sorry, when are you coming down?
I think I'm trying to see if I'm gonna do
the north part first, or the south part first,
because it's all just a long drive anyway you slice it,
but sometime after December 11th, but before the 17th.
Before the 17th, no, like that span of days,
I just don't know.
I just won't see what I get in the car.
So next week, also known as a week from now.
Right.
Yeah, yeah, definitely.
Hit me up on Instagram.
I will.
Let me know what you're doing when you know.
Other, I'm trying to get scouted.
Closing it up.
Closing it up.
Okay, so we, let's call it on,
good God, where was our?
420 I think.
Fish whistle.
Yeah, fish whistle.
Fish whistle, is it really?
For the name alone.
Great bit too.
I should bring it home.
Yeah.
All right, we'll do the five second countdown.
Five, four, three, two, one.
Fish whistle, it is yours for 420.
Appreciate you fish whistle.
Is a very appropriate donation.
Thank you, yes.
And Hermesia, can you post the,
where fish whistle should go to make their donation?
And also email us, so we have your contact info.
Okay, what's next?
It's a home stretch.
Is this the last one?
We got three left if we do it quick.
So it's one from Land O' Stank, right?
Yeah, two more from Land O' Stank.
All right, we're gonna be, we're gonna do, yeah.
All right.
Cause I gotta go catch that plane.
Do you wanna do, this is kind of a big one.
Land O' Stank donated Intergalactic from Exotic Mike.
You wanna do that one?
Yeah, absolutely.
All right, so the Intergalactic,
let me pull up the information on that one.
This was the, I feel like we both felt like
this was kind of the gem of the pack.
Definitely the gems.
Queen of show.
Definitely right.
Best in show.
Best in show, best in show.
Mother's Constantine, the father's the cube.
And that's by Exotic Mike.
And.
Aroma notes say pungent petro.
Hard to talk with the.
Oh man, the alliteration's killing me.
Pungent petro.
Yeah, I think he means petrol.
Petrol.
Petrol.
Or gas.
Or petro.
Yeah.
I am also pungent when I don't take showers
for a couple of days.
So Constantine.
Okay, so what.
What's that?
So can someone put in the chat what's currently up?
What did you say, it's Intergalactic?
Intergalactic.
From Exotic Mike.
It's a little complicated.
Oh.
Oh, so it's crossed back onto itself?
Should we start that at 150?
Orange Valley OG at Constantine's.
Peter, we wanna start that one at 150.
That one's kind of a special.
Okay, Intergalactic Planetary.
Intergalactic.
I don't hear that too much anymore.
With this, though.
A little Beastie Boys.
Yes.
That was like Skate Night cool music.
And speaking of old school hip hop,
oh shit, you know what?
I hopefully very soon have a pretty cool announcement
to make, but I can't quite make it yet.
But it has to do with.
Shout out Dabs Van.
Yeah, hope I said that right.
Said it, Jacob, that is one of the cube crosses.
It's Constantine, which is, as I understand,
a cube cross as well, times the cube.
Yeah, somebody's talking about Orange Valley in here.
Yeah, where was, yeah, that was, all right.
And Orange Valley's SFBOG cross with Agent Orange.
That's like.
SFE.
That's a big deal.
Yeah, that Angel Orange.
Okay, so just Intergalactic, right?
Exactly.
When did Intergalactic,
was that 98?
Beastie Boys?
Yeah.
That's gotta be old school, right?
I feel like it was a little earlier than them,
but I might be.
I mean, I remember Beastie Boys first came out.
200.
It was 200.
I remember it was like when I was, I don't know,
eight or nine and like in the hockey locker room,
some kids were rocking it.
That was definitely.
Hippie Spinach at 200.
Nice.
Hippie Spinach at 210.
Think Hippie Spinach just outbid Hippie Spinach,
but thank you for outbidding yourself.
Wish we had those virtual paddles, Peter.
Yeah.
Okay, thank, so that song came out in 92.
Intergalactic, dude? According to Rob.
What?
Damn.
Sure that wasn't a bid from Rob?
Yeah.
Keeping it all toasty.
Nate says it was 98.
Anybody wants to do a quick Google search?
Then bummer.
But back to the.
Google's a bitch when you're wrong.
Oh, here we go.
230.
Nice.
Look at this teamwork.
So this pack was, I think I saw,
is this your phone?
That's it.
I think I saw a pack like this or something similar
go for a little bit of money the other day
on another auction.
True SFV from Exotic,
also another Orange Valley OG hitter.
Yeah.
That's, yeah.
That's good stuff.
To Brian R's question,
we were literally selling it right now.
A lot of that stuff is from Duke Diamonds Vault.
Personally, given.
Can you guys hold down the fort for a minute?
I wanna go see if a package arrived at the front door.
Porch pirates trying to get in.
I'll be right back.
Let's go around.
There's this new thing that'll like whistle,
supposedly scare people away.
Porch whistles.
Oh, really?
Could make a lot of money one day.
I don't think that's gonna stop.
Get all out.
That's a thing in the area here.
There's a lot of people stealing stuff or what?
On porches.
Oh yeah.
All right, so where were we at, Daguirre?
I thought it was 200.
Or was the other one was 200?
Maybe not.
Here we go.
230, Julian Rose.
Julian Rose, you are sprinting.
Yeah, right, he got a fee, I know.
It's breaking the seal, man.
Isn't it right?
One should go.
She go playing this comes out of nowhere every now and then.
What?
You ever notice that?
Quiet, quiet, seeing her.
And then probably sits back and then smokes.
Yeah.
Door cameras, pay the spy on your side.
Hey, shout out to everybody coming together for this.
We know it's not, you know,
we're not really teaching anything today,
but at the same time, I hope you guys see that,
you know, there is a community out there
that's willing to come together for one of their own.
And there's no better dude to do it for.
So we appreciate all of you bidding and participating.
And like I said, I saw a few other people in the chat
were talking about when he was coming home
and I can assure you it's in just a few months.
So again, that's like James mentioned before,
he was released on a state case
and then picked up on a fed case.
So I don't think I have to tell this audience
what a fed case means.
So he's waiting that out again,
as that point system that Bean mentioned as well.
So you really just kind of get your good behavior,
do your thing.
And so as long as he keeps it set down and continues,
he's gonna be out extremely soon.
And again, that's why we're putting this together
last minute so that when he does come out
here in the short few months,
he's gonna run with, again, like Bean mentioned, the book.
I think that's gonna be a home run
for a gentleman like Duke.
Tommy, I guess everybody's calling him.
Everybody knows his name.
But shout out to Duke.
All right, so I believe we're at two.
230 for Julie and Rose.
The intergalactic beans.
All right, let's call it.
This is a steal on these beans.
So anybody else wanna jump in?
Is this it?
Again, shout out to Landis.
Thanks for providing these.
That gentleman knows his stuff.
Evergreen Valley Seas knows exactly what I'm opening up.
That's funny.
Peter got a crow bed.
That's just this ship right to the door.
So is that Tyler?
Shout out to Tyler.
Yeah.
Tyler, if you're watching, thank you.
Talk about another good dude in the industry.
Shout out to Tyler.
Yeah, I'm setting up a home run.
Sorry, dude, I was reading that comment.
My bad.
These are expensive as hell.
They went for way more last week.
Yeah, it's Starfighter, Starfighter, Tom's.
Orange Valley OG.
The cube.
So it's the Orange Valley OG, the cube,
and then that's Constantine, and then times the cube.
What was that?
The SFE and the Asian orange or whatever.
What was that?
Yeah, the Orange Valley.
Yeah, okay.
It's the Orange Valley, okay.
Shout out to Cedric.
Yeah, it's a breeder pack.
I think Exotic Mike has 12 in his packs.
I think we were talking about that earlier.
10 or 12.
Okay, so what were we at?
230.
230.
All right, should we call it?
Strong style.
Cook your heels.
Strong style organics wants to make the,
well, I don't want Relatin to look at the comment
because he's driving right now, but.
There's Randy has the information on the.
Chris Guerrero, I see your comment.
So for stuff like this, stay on top of me
because I have a million things coming in
from a million places, and if I flake out,
it's not because I'm a dick.
It's because it's probably a mile down in my DMs.
But yes, we should do something for Eddie,
and I'd love for other people to jump on.
In the same way that everyone's coming together here,
people are in the chat helping out,
people are on camera helping out,
people are sending stuff in to be donated,
people are buying stuff.
We could do that for Eddie.
And Fish Whistle is at 250.
What was the previous bid?
30.
Okay.
Fish Whistle's out there.
Yeah, these Starfighter packs went for a few thousand.
I feel like Fish Whistle's over there
doing a little homework.
Oh man, oh man.
Just go away.
Power of Google.
Yeah, and also the power of good, because hey.
Brian, we do fundraisers for a variety of things,
so whether it's Duke or Fire Relief or Eddie Lep
or other people who are in jail,
donations are always appreciated.
But I'm sure 303 could even throw a thing on
that's just ABC drug donated by this person.
Winning bidder pick tonight at 710 or whatever,
you know, all the stuff they do, right?
You can just throw up stuff like that.
We can set that up off the air.
Thank you for your kindness.
That's awesome.
Okay, so Fish Whistle.
Fish Whistle knows that they won.
I look at you.
Fish Whistle's fun.
Can we get that person on the air?
Hugh's over there.
You can tell.
Okay, so should we call it for Fish Whistle?
Yes.
We're gonna have to, I think, to keep it moving.
Yep.
All right.
That's a great one.
Fish Whistle, you got it.
So, Hermesia, can you?
Fish Whistle just made money watching this show.
Thank your boy, Landon Stang for that.
For real, Landon Stang.
You gonna resell that tag?
No to that.
Yeah, thanks for your donation, Fish Whistle.
Just woke up, found money in the dresser.
That's a good pack.
Okay.
All right.
You wanna talk about this one?
Yeah.
Is that the Grimdicka?
Grimdicka.
Another fun one from,
that one, I feel.
You know what's fun about this is that
even when you're looking them up,
usually it's like, that was just.
Yeah, but some of them are,
well, this one.
So, this is some old packs.
So, this one is a Hashplant Crest.
That's what I thought.
Okay.
Hashplant by Afghani.
All right, what's?
That's the Grimdicka.
Hashplant by Afghani.
That's a, this one is another,
G-R-I-M-M-D-I-C-A.
There's seven in there.
And there's seven?
Okay.
Seven of these seeds.
Just, I just wanna point out
that that is how Sasquatch,
he started with seven from the Vulcan Death Grip,
grew those seven out and had some unique ass shit.
Yeah.
Just saying.
Duke has some.
This is another one of those.
Lottery tickets.
Oh, very special.
Yeah, very, very special.
He didn't do a lot of these, I feel like,
and they were gone pretty quick.
Try cones at 100.
Hashplant crossed with Afghani.
Feel like that was probably off the map.
R1 too.
That's some good stuff.
Yeah, you do, Cedric.
You do need these.
They are good.
These I had just clone only from him that I grew also.
Not very many though.
Julia Rose, shout out.
130.
Grimdicka.
Dancrupsy.
Dude, I bet fishy went outside
and was like getting some sun on his face.
Shout out.
Hashplant.
I don't think it was Skelly.
That was before Skelly's creation,
so it was way before that.
His 13?
That I don't know.
Let me ask.
Let me ask the experts,
which is gonna be Sasquatch,
because I feel like he'll know if you don't.
You can always call Rick up.
He would maybe possibly know, I would think.
After you.
I would think so.
I would think so.
I would think so.
Steve has a pack he can put up,
but we may wanna save it for as we're 10, 11, 12.
Oh, the Deadman.
Yeah, very cool.
Maybe we can hold that off for a future.
Just throw it in, whatever.
That's funny.
Well, for the Grimdicka, Tommy's at 150,
and yes, it is Christmas for me.
I've been waiting for these for the past week.
I'm basically waiting to go out to the garden
as soon as we end.
Steve Blanco says it was a Synthese hash plant
that Duke selected for the Grimdicka.
Shout out, Steve Blanco.
Thank you.
All right, so we're back to 150.
Tommy.
Oh yeah, Tommy's asking about the,
oh, the big pack?
The pack.
Oh, is it the 88?
He's like, come on.
I think Tommy's been patiently waiting.
So if no one wants to snipe Tommy,
Tommy is the winner of the James Bean pack.
That's pretty.
Seven packs in one shipped worldwide,
but Tommy is here in the US, I believe.
Well done, Tommy.
And he kept trying.
And he's getting this one too.
He's getting this one too, right?
Didn't he get something else too?
He might have.
I mean, you've been a contributing bidder.
Yeah, he's finally, he's good at these.
Yeah.
Thanks, man.
Yeah.
Yeah, for sure.
Yes, Randy Haas, it is seven packs.
A sangria punch.
A really good stuff.
Separated, comma separated.
Superfly, hoodoo, sangria punch, cough drop,
free bird, mountain berry feminized, and shine apple.
Superfly, the hoodoo, sangria punch.
What's that free bird?
I feel like lots of people are just realizing
that it was seven packs.
Chingo bling.
Yeah.
It's a seven pack, yeah.
Seven different packs.
Seven separate packs in one mother load
on Tommy Tricombe's face, unless someone else,
unless someone else wants that aimed at them.
It's late in the conversation.
Have you been dabbing?
I haven't been paying attention.
Nobody's been paying attention.
I gotta go outside to do that or I get yelled at.
Oh, man.
My two year old always pops in the garage just as I'm.
So Tommy is at 625.
And he's Randy.
Let's go 10 seconds and then we'll get back.
Layton's giving us the view.
Wait, Layton, can you do that view again?
Oh, in GP?
It's so pretty right there.
Yeah, don't crash while you're doing it.
Yeah.
We're gonna have a Layton visual.
Yeah, it's gorgeous up here,
but the signal's dropping pretty quick.
Yeah, now flip the phone again.
Oh, yay, it'll be like folly.
That's fun.
I need it.
Okay, that was an amazing.
Hey, Jane, you ever heard of freezing fog?
Are you asking me?
Yeah, yeah.
Jane?
I couldn't hear.
I thought you were talking about it.
No, no, no, no, no.
Freezing fog, yeah.
It's fucking badass, right?
Yeah.
Oh, is it happening right there right now?
No, it was a couple of days ago.
I blasted through here and like wherever the fog was,
was all just crystals on the trees.
Yeah.
I've never heard of it before.
It's cool.
Where I live, I'm in Colorado Springs
and then I'm just right near going into the foothills
and that'll happen a lot where you'll just, you'll go,
I'm at like 6,700 feet
and it's just, you'll like bump right to eight
and everything is just like all evergreens
covered in frosty fog and it's so beautiful.
You're in a winter wonderland.
He's like, I don't know what's happening.
I can't even hear you.
Okay, so just quickly.
Sorry I lost you there for a minute.
Yeah, 6,700 feet.
You get the same shit then.
It's pretty cool.
Yeah, and a little higher.
Yeah, it's pretty, really pretty.
So what did Tommy bought the?
Yes, Tommy, you've been patient.
You are the winner.
And then also the Gremnica as well, right?
For what?
Jane, how do you remember this?
Unless you guys have been writing it down.
I'm not writing it down.
I'm just looking at the chat and yeah.
Oh wait, Tommy won the Gremnica too?
Also, I do believe that he did.
Tommy and Tommy, that's right.
Okay, so we'll call the Gremnica
and what did he win the Gremnica at?
Gremnica at 150, I believe.
Tommy, that is eight packs for the Gremnica.
Tommy, that is eight packs for 775.
Yeah, what's that?
It's a good deal, right?
It's pretty good.
That's a really good deal.
Seven seeds and seven packs.
Okay, and look at that, Tommy Tricomes.
All right, so we're on the home stretch.
What's next?
Well.
Is that this?
Did we do this one?
No.
We've not done this.
So we have some more work from when Duke was with Seoul.
P75, Tom's killer queen.
And the killer queen was Vic High's killer queen,
I'm pretty sure.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Just, sorry, I don't wanna put anything in the way here.
Sasquatch is gonna donate 20 seeds of the princess
cross with 88G13 hash plant slash Kandahar Afghani,
and he'll donate to the auction.
So, but we can do that after this.
Thank you, Sasquatch.
Okay, so sorry, what are we doing now?
P75 times killer queen.
This is a 12 seed pack.
Tommy, take your time.
Okay.
So P75.
Here you go, Blaine.
120.
Let's see.
Oh, yeah.
I think the killer queen is,
I'm pretty sure, is G13 cross with Cindy 99.
So.
Yeah, princess 75 cross with killer queen.
Can't remember what the killer queen was.
I know it was.
I'm pretty sure.
Here, let's see.
I know it wasn't my favorite compared to the space queen.
I like the space queen.
The subhead.
That was a good one.
Why is that?
It's just cherry, fruit, mango type thing.
Sweet.
A little bit.
It's kinda tangy.
That was the space queen.
This is the killer queen.
Killer queen was good, though.
These were the ones that were given away to do,
you know, people who met it,
and it was different seed of bits.
It was just one pack of, how many did you say?
12 seeds.
12.
And we showed this one in the beginning.
And this was 20 seeds?
This is 12 seeds.
12, 12, 12.
Yeah, G13 and Cindy 99.
Yep.
Thanks, Randy.
Tommy, I hope not much longer,
because I wanna eat lunch and see the sunlight
for the first time today.
This is a marathon.
Yeah.
Yep.
All for the right reasons.
Yeah.
Chingo, be nice.
Yeah, if we think that our time is hard, I guess,
then we should think about our homie.
His time's a little harder, right?
So, you know.
Sounds good.
So.
There we go.
Oh, thank you.
Nick, possibly, but I kinda feel like
not doing anything tonight.
He is human.
You rock, too.
Thank you.
Everyone that has joined,
a lot of people have been on the entire time.
Pretty good.
So, sorry, Sasquatch, that's up next, right?
We'll do that, and then this?
You wrote that one.
Okay, cool.
And then we'll do this.
Okay, cool.
And then that'll be.
I think that was the confusions.
You guys mentioned 20.
That's for one of the next things that's up, is the 20.
That one, that 20 seeds will be next.
That one is gonna be next after this.
That's a Sasquatch donation,
and we'll put that typed up after this one.
Actually, I have to smoke some cat piss
a little bit later.
Light foam.
And give some feedback.
Oh, good.
A bop-anon.
You're a trooper.
I, too, have been here since the beginning.
Yes.
Yes.
Yeah.
It's a lot of planning to be like,
okay, we're gonna be here.
What did Chingo win?
What did you win, Chingo?
Yeah, I don't remember.
I think it was this, I think.
Is that what it said?
Is that the one we were doing with Chingo?
I'd like to look back on the thing.
Yeah, don't scare Hermitia or whatever.
I don't think it was a complete.
Because that person's been stellar
in helping us do the things.
Yeah, what have you been smoking on, Peter?
Flour or devs?
Seems like you got a lot of flour.
I'm a mostly flour guy.
I do have, from Pedro,
he hooked me up with a bunch of the hash
that he washed on the show.
Oh, he, wait.
Sorry.
Go ahead.
I don't mean to interrupt.
I wanna keep rolling.
Chingo's saying hurry the fuck up.
Okay, we get it.
We get it.
All right.
So is Chingo the current high bidder on the P75?
P75, Killer Queen.
Okay, and what was Chingo's bid?
I don't even know, I'm sorry.
Chingo's at 120.
I'm sorry, Chingo.
Chingo, can you re-enter your current high bid?
Okay, Chingo's at 120.
All righty.
Going once.
Let me do the countdown.
Five, four, three.
G-L-O-R-I-A, Gloria.
All right, Chingo is the winner.
All right.
And we will,
the dude who you said can't get anything right
will tell you where he can make your payment.
Or a woman.
We don't know.
We don't know.
Dimitri.
Thank you, Chingo.
Thank you.
Okay, so what's next?
All right, so then we got two more, right?
Sasquatch.
So Sasquatch.
Sasquatch put in 20 seeds of Princess Cross
with 88G13 hash plant.
And then is that Cross with Kandahar, Afghanistan?
Yeah, so the 88G13 with Kandahar.
Okay, can someone in the chat who's meticulous
with their brackets and stuff paste that in?
And so, Princess.
Chingo, no worries.
We're just fucking with you too.
Yeah, we're just fucking with you.
It's cool.
So Princess Cross 88G13.
It's usually how we do that, 88G13 hash plant.
Crossed with Kandahar or Afghani.
Or both if you just wanna type a lot.
Oh, wait, let me-
20 of them, 20.
That's some vault shit.
Yeah, super nice.
That's special.
Sasquatch has always been super nice, anytime.
And I feel like some, I'm like,
oh, should we have a limit on,
like a time limit on those?
Or can we just have it going in the background
after it ends?
Doesn't matter.
Whatever you guys wanna do.
I said we end it, finish it.
Just end it, okay.
All right, oh, thank you.
Photos to videos.
Yes.
Thank God.
Yes, that's what I was looking for.
The proper spelling and everything.
Even got the, yes.
There's a dude saying that they did telephones.
Can you do that for like 24 hours straight?
Who?
I think it was when I was a little kid.
PBS telephones?
Yeah, that kind of thing.
Like heal the world telephones?
I just remember the thing the guy did
for 24 hours straight.
That was like his little thing.
Dean Peck is talking physics.
90 micrometers.
90 micrometers per 100.
Pretty good stuff.
Is this a hash yielder?
This one?
So anything with princess dumps, right?
And then your hash plans generally.
I think it depends on if you're,
so if you're hydrocarbon, yes.
If you're washing it, I don't know
because I don't have the experience with it.
So I'm gonna actually maybe rely on Sasquatch
to write me about that one.
I'm actually just messaging right now.
How does it hash?
So for hydrocarbon, yes.
Because then it has that nice,
those nice little citrus notes.
Do you also do ice water?
Or are you just like all,
I know the name says propane,
but do you also dabble in the H2O?
At 40, here I am,
having a little plain Jane situation coming up.
Creeping on the come up.
So propane Jane is like crossing over a little bit
into a plain Jane.
And thank you.
And what are your thoughts?
I mean, as someone who knows both worlds
in terms of extraction.
So what is,
what has been a little bit of a struggle for me
is that I've gotten really used to,
and actually this is something
that we didn't really get to get into yet,
but nerds and why this one will be really important
coming up here.
That nerds would,
has predominantly bred for hydrocarbon.
It started breeding for the hash maker
and some of their cultivars.
And with this being able to see for me,
now I'm working with nerds
in them developing things that wash well,
because in this, for me, it's been,
like if I have something with a lemon G for instance,
anything with like a huge, just lemon dominant nastiness,
what I'm learning from friends that I lean on,
that those particular things are not,
you're not picking for that with hydrate,
with solvent less with water.
You're picking for that with hydrocarbon.
You're looking for those kinds of things
because those terpenes are solvents
and they can aid in,
making diamonds and stuff like that for hydrocarbon.
So for me, it's been a really fucking big learning curve
actually, where I'm thinking that something
might do a good job or thinking,
well, if now that the quickness of it is still there
for what you're trying to do,
if you're aiming for a solvent list,
it's just been a little trickier for me
to kind of figure out.
And then I have all these other friends,
oh, here's Sasquatch coming in here.
But it's been a big learning curve for me
to be able to consistently be sourcing.
So it makes it really important for you
to have to kind of grow your own
because it's so much like hydrocarbon,
you can clean up things.
So you have other avenues, but with solvent list,
there's so much about like how you grew this
when you harvested it.
And it's been a big learning curve.
So seeing the different things do different stuff.
Yeah, hash plant might wash well,
but something with a hat,
like if you get a phenotypic trait
that's leaning on that citrus,
where it's just wet and slimy,
like some of the other stuff,
it can be tricky to properly extract that with water.
Sorry, that's a little drawn out, but.
It's okay.
That's all right.
We got time to fill.
No, because for me, it's interesting someone,
if you have experience in hydrocarbon,
I mean, even alcohol, CO2, ice water hash,
to know kind of like, oh, when I do it this way,
I can make something happen.
And then when I do it that way,
it doesn't work out as well.
You have a greater vocabulary.
It's like speaking multiple languages
or an MMA being able to fight different styles.
Being able to draw on each one
and understand what works where
and why it doesn't work in some ways.
Yeah, it's really to be able to provide more ways
for people to access medicine.
I want to be able to,
I've gotten really into edibles and tinctures
and all these different things.
And being able to give someone a consistency that works,
like that was always a big thing,
I feel like for Duke and everyone,
that was a really big thing for him.
He wouldn't get near hydrocarbon
because that's just, that's his thing, right?
But he would definitely mess with solventless.
But in that, you can come together
with all of these groups of people
and be able to understand that allowing,
having the opportunity to be able to diversify
how someone can consume in a way that works for them
and then have breeders out there
that they're working with me with that end goal
is just like, it's more, it's overgrow,
but like in the way of being able to give more access
to people, to the planet, right?
And the current high bid is,
someone in Canada is very jealous
that the high bid is so low.
Oh, look it, Steve Blanco got Jane's Rosetta Stone oil
at Emerald Cup in 2017.
Oh, it was fire.
Sorry again for nearly making you cry.
Thank you, that's awesome.
See, but that's why that Rosetta Stone is so important to me
is that it allowed me to be able to give,
yeah, just to be able to hash something
that had such an interesting,
I mean, you wipe against this plant
and you went into like fly paper.
So it was very, very terpy and with 100% propane,
I could produce diamonds,
which usually people have to introduce a butane
or an isobutane that acts like propane
to be able to get it to separate
and that just does it on its own.
That's why that Rosetta is so important.
So TMSC has successfully mastered the chat feature.
Yes.
I was very happy about that.
190 for 90, 90 microns at 190.
Is that where we're?
190, yeah.
All right, let's, 30 seconds.
Okay.
We're getting closer and closer to my lunch,
which has actually been sitting on the kitchen counter
since like nine, I pulled it out before we started
thinking that we'd go for two hours
and I come back up and.
Five hours later.
You know what though, it's so worth it.
Appreciate you, Peter.
Yeah, it's so worth it.
Oh, we got Scallywag.
You've been on a come up at 200.
You gotta update that with our new.
Scallywag.
I think we should send some wonderful participant gifts to,
and can you tell us how to say your name?
Hermitia Lucens?
Yeah, tell us if our pronunciation is close.
Is it just a joke?
Like, is it like a, oh, cool license plate?
No, it's not his real name, but.
Okay.
But the YouTube name I wanna know of Hermitia is correct.
Yeah, like shoot us straight.
I was, I'm in my, I'm a linguistics studier, I wanna know.
Tell me how I say it.
Lucens.
Lucens, okay.
Carlos Escobar will know what princess was.
Coming in a little bit late there.
Princess is the mother to Apollo 11.
Oh my God, Hermitia Lucens is black soldier fly,
which I have many of outside.
I did not know that.
Okay, but is that how you, okay.
Latin name of the fly larvae.
Yeah, okay, that's funny.
So we're saying that correct?
I probably have a couple larvae.
What does a larva do?
They inch, an inchworm inches a larva,
whatever they do across the floor here somewhere.
So should we do one more pack after this?
Yeah, this is the last one.
So Shonald wants to know what's next.
Scallywag is at 240.
240 Scallywag.
Thanks again so much for all the support.
So five people who get in on this action
or you wanna keep it as he.
Do you wanna put a reserve on that?
Maybe we could try to.
50 seats, so.
Yeah, the last one we have is a 50 pack
and we're debating do we wanna,
because it's such a like,
or two packs of 25 or something like that.
It is a pack of 50.
It is a pack of 50.
It is a pack of 50.
But we'd have to probably start that at least at 250.
Yeah, or 300, I was sick of 300.
How do people feel about that?
So should we call this one in 10 seconds?
All right, so Scallywag.
I'm gonna do the 10, nine, eight, seven.
Scallywag for the win in four seconds.
And Tommy, that was very nice to win something for Dave.
And Scallywag.
And thank you Sasquatch for that.
Yeah, for real buddy.
Beautiful giving donation.
Thank you so much.
Okay, so.
Sold.
All right.
All right, so the last pack and Scallywag.
Yes, look at that.
My God, I don't even have to say it.
Okay, what's next?
All right, last but not least, the mega pack.
It's a nerds donation and it's a,
what Robbie, when he called said
that he made these seeds,
but with all of Tommy's work and his how-to's.
So he donated these and it's Gorilla Glue 4
with the sister skunk, but I'm not familiar with the.
It's Kim's sister, Scally skunk.
Fire.
Yeah, absolutely.
And there's 50 seeds in this pack.
Wow.
I gotta start that at 300.
I think we should.
And we're already there.
We're already at 300.
Excellent.
Darken the creases.
This is my one.
This is so special.
I've never released, I grew these,
I feel like with my pest lover in NorCal.
Not this fast harvest, but the harvest before.
I feel like we had some of these.
So we put, again, it was all Dominion
and which one did you win?
Scallywag won?
These were very.
Scallywag won the last one.
Yeah, Scallywag won.
Can someone type in what we're currently auctioning off?
Yep.
Yes, please, Hermitia Ellucians.
Scallywag won with the outcast.
Gorilla Goo.
So it's G-R-I-L-L-A.
It's not Gorilla.
It's Gorilla.
Gorilla, like my braces.
Gorilla.
Gorilla Glue.
Oh, Goo.
Two words?
Uh-huh, Gorilla Goo.
Gorilla Goo.
And it's GG4 crossed with Siskunk.
GG4 crossed with what?
Sister Skunk, right?
Isn't it?
550 for Hippy Spinach.
Nice, thank you.
Okay, is that close enough?
Let me load my rifle.
Yes, it is.
That is correct.
Thank you.
That is correct.
That's a tally boy.
Yeah.
Could have a panel next to just my sisters
and we'd swap movies all fucking day long.
Yeah.
There we go.
I think it's two.
There you go.
Okay, wait.
There we go.
And then flip it.
There we go.
And then, yeah, back it up a little bit.
Back it up.
GG4 by Sis, okay, cool.
So, put that in there.
Smooth.
Yeah.
Thank you so much again, nerds,
for the generous donations.
Thank you.
And half of this stuff was from him, at least.
Absolutely, yeah.
Thank you.
Special, special.
Strengths.
Big ups, nerds.
You're slaying.
Yeah, slaying.
Okay, is Shonald still in the lead?
Shonald Trump.
Shonald Trump.
Yeah.
Oh, I think Hippy Spinach said 550.
Yep.
Was that right?
That was Hippy Spinach.
Yep.
Photos to videos, if you have gear to donate,
hit up 303 Organic Cannabis.
Hit up Brian over there.
Or me, if, I mean, whatever, anybody, or Sticky.
Anybody in this little group, but 303 will be, yeah.
We'll get it figured out.
Yeah, thank you so much for that.
We appreciate the help.
Thank you.
Ken's sister's coming in.
Ken, appreciate it.
Hippy Spinach, shout out.
So, we're currently at 550, and this was a 50 pack, right?
This is a 50 pack.
From deep in the vault.
Yeah.
And it reached back twice.
Yeah.
As you know, Kim's sister, I think,
is in Gorilla Glue, right?
Gorilla Glue, GG4?
Oh, I don't know.
Is it?
Really?
Pretty sure that was where I got the Kim from,
was Kim's sister.
Oh.
That I actually don't know.
He explained part of it to me,
and he was telling me about the microwave.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, or something.
So, he said the microwave made him think of Gorilla Glue,
because he broke the microwave,
and then had to use Gorilla Glue
to glue the handle back on the microwave.
I don't know.
That was a cool story.
All right.
Maybe someone can back me up on that one.
Yeah, where's our community?
Yeah, he says,
the original glue is Kim's sis mom from grad school.
Oh, it is.
Not crazy.
No, you know your stuff.
Good job.
He does, yeah.
You really, really do.
I'm quiet, I don't talk a lot.
That's just because I'm just reading everything
all of the time, right?
Taking it in.
That's you.
Appreciate it.
He's got a lot of stories to tell.
Hopefully we'll get them out of him, you know?
Sourdough, jam, chocolate.
That's easy, right?
Not too hard, yeah.
All right.
All right.
What do we think?
We gonna close that?
Wait, when is 420?
Or wait, we still,
oh, it's 330.
He's like, no.
You know what I see then?
I thought you meant 420 my time
and I was like, that's another two hours from now.
That's an hour ahead, right?
Cause otherwise I'm gonna miss that flight.
It's 330 my time.
Right, this is a deal.
50 C's to pop.
50 C's to use.
34.
This is a deal.
Yeah, where are you gonna get that at?
Walk down the street.
You can find some fun in that patch.
Yeah, that's good.
We'd love to see some of this, you know,
in the next few months.
If you guys wanna post up.
Yeah, pictures.
Yeah.
We'll bring you on the show
and you can give us a little garden tour.
And I was gonna show everyone some,
people were asking about gear.
And I'll give you a taste of,
okay, what's our, have we slowed down on the bid?
This is 50 C's, right?
Yeah, I think we're good.
50 C's.
I think Hippy's finished a lump there.
Okay, let's give them another minute.
And glue, anything with glue, both.
I'm working on a like cannabis consumer reports
where you just have like the things
in the little categories
and glue is something that washes well
and hashes with hydrocarbon extremely well on both sides.
It's beautiful.
Yeah.
It's a beautiful plant.
So actually, Hermesia just posted the Discord,
but I think the link expires every 24 hours.
So this is for people who wanna post pictures
as they grow these things,
I just posted the Discord.
And this is, yeah, Hippy's finished, still at 500.
But this is the beginning of some FCP stuff.
So people were asking forever for merch.
And these are-
You're always pulling these out of your pocket.
Some initial designs.
But anyway, those will be coming soon.
And okay, so we got, I think it's almost
an anticlimactic wrap.
Yeah, but it all adds up.
Yeah, it's all such good stuff.
Let's bring our road warrior back on.
Still driving.
Amazing that he has-
Are you on the five?
What's up, guys?
You make it to the five in California yet?
Is that why you have reception?
This has been awesome.
Have you ever just sat quietly on the phone for five hours?
No, actually, and I learned so much today.
It was fucking awesome.
Like about all of these back crosses
and different cultivars that I've heard of,
but didn't know how they came about.
So it was a pleasure to be a Padawan learner today.
Hey, we appreciate you, buddy.
You're always putting a lot of time and effort into these.
So thank you, man.
I appreciate you guys.
Thanks for everything you did.
I mean, Duke deserves it, man.
Glad that we were able to get him some funds.
Road warrior.
Did this beat any, what do you have, Sirius?
Or what's the other satellite radio?
Oh yeah, way better than talk radio.
XM or?
No, yeah, this was the best podcast I've listened to.
Absolutely.
Thank you.
Okay, so.
Logan, I have nothing on us.
Yeah.
Read is the key.
So hippie spinach.
Hippie spinach, pick it up.
Are we calling it for hippie spinach?
Yes, and Tommy said don't forget to do the countdown.
Anybody else want to jump in on this?
All right, if I can find, I just lost my,
give me one second.
And they keep coming back.
I love the community feels too.
It's awesome.
It was awesome to see everyone talking to each other.
Four, three, two.
Okay, hippie spinach.
Hippie spinach.
Congratulations.
Black soldier fly, let him know where he can go
to make his donation or her donation.
Oh my God, look at that.
And also please hit me up, Hermitia is it?
Yeah.
For some like just special things just from us
because you slayed in helping us make this come along here.
And then also just at the end,
if anybody wants to outbid me on that original Rosetta pack
that I was talking about with DEM and with Sasquatch
because the shit's the flame.
If anybody wants to outbid me at $600, hit the DM.
I'm not popping it tomorrow,
but I am definitely hoarding it.
Like I really like it.
Yeah.
Yeah, if anybody wants to outbid me, you got it.
All right.
Very fun.
As the ambulance goes by outside.
Because shit's dead.
All right, well, thank you everyone.
That was a marathon.
And.
That was a marathon.
Thank you.
Shout out to everybody that was a part of this.
Shout out to Daguerre, Malavora.
Thank you, sir.
Thank you.
Payment sent already.
Grab the bottle.
Yeah, everybody that posted online to draw attention
to this, I really appreciate everybody that did that.
No Duke appreciates you.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
You know he never asked for it either.
That's what's nice about all this.
Thank all of you.
We appreciate you, Peter.
Yeah, I'm trying to think.
I hope I don't do anything tonight.
I might, but Sunday morning, James Loud.
Actually before that, we have from Worcester, Mass,
Joda Erb, a morning garden tour.
I believe that's at 8 a.m. Pacific.
And then we got Microbe Alchemist at, I believe,
2 p.m. Pacific time.
And possibly some stuff between now and then.
But for now, I'm gonna get outside with my grassroots.
Get the living soil beds or the regular ones?
I got both and a lot of them.
Nice.
Saw that.
I have a whole bunch of stuff that needs to go
from Solo Cups into something.
Oh yeah, FCP2, that's imminently.
Let me just find, give me one second.
Well anyway, actually, you know what?
I can post that.
If everybody can follow this.
Actually the big thing is once we get to 100 followers,
I can actually change the name to FCP2,
which was part of the reason why,
because it is currently called that,
which just rolls right off your.
What is more back?
That just rolls right off the tongue.
Anyway, that's the current FCP2,
but once we hit 100 subscribers,
I can change it to FCP and the number two,
which is a lot easier.
And then we can go live with it.
But yes, and join the Discord.
That link again, and then we can wrap it.
So you can post pictures of all your stuff.
And maybe Propane Jane can manage the imminent,
because we have the solventless extraction channel.
We could have the solvent channel.
Oh yeah.
On the Discord.
We're gonna have to actually connect after the show,
because I have something I want to put on with you.
Yeah, let's do it.
Promise lots of hash talk, lots.
Excellent.
Okay, and Chingo, people said you need to come on,
because you'll make everybody laugh.
So we'll get Chingo bling on maybe sometime soon too.
From the deep south.
I like that.
And Hermitia, thank you.
And God knows what time it is where you are.
Actually, no, it's not too late.
You're maybe nine hours ahead of us.
So anyway.
And message me, so I can send some treasures.
We do.
If you're not shipping seeds internationally,
you're gonna be surprised
where you need to send those treasures.
I know, it's cool.
Hey, we're not talking about that.
We're not shipping seeds.
So there you go.
That's follow up with Jane there.
Standing coma, thank you for all your work off camera.
Oh, the bubble.
Did he wave?
It was good.
He's still in a coma.
Yeah.
I think we lost Leighton.
All right, with that, let's have a going out,
let's have a comment to end on.
We'll go with Flora Nugs.
And with that, I will live stream four hours
and 42 minutes into the conversation.
Thank you everybody who was a part of this.
Absolutely.
