2015, only unrelated incident, and uh, they came back and fucking gaffled us up.
Alright, so Brandon, grab a mic.
Huh?
Grab a mic.
Sure, yeah.
So...
What's going on?
We're here, day two.
It is day two.
Emerald Cup.
We moved inside because it's pouring rain outside.
Uh, so this morning you woke up, you woke up and you rolled a joint of the Donnie Burger.
Yeah, the Donnie Burger.
This guy right here, John, which is raised cannabis.
Uh, thus far, he has the best sun grown that I've ever seen.
Yeah, I woke up early.
I usually wake up early, start my day pretty early in the morning.
Um, and I do...
I didn't see that did not happen today.
We, you know, I always wake and bake.
I, uh, rolled up a joint with my lady Carly over here and went right back to sleep after that.
Yeah, it put me down.
Is there...
I think they're having some technical difficulties over there.
Should've left you with some of that haze instead or some of that jack smelling weed.
Rolling joints.
Yep.
Having to...
The sash, I'll be cruising around here in a little bit.
I fly out back to Oklahoma this evening.
That one go around this way.
Can we do a show and tell of the...
Is that what you brought?
I just brought that over.
That's forbidden fruit by Chetamoya.
Um, a Maui-Humboldt collaboration and, uh...
Is that what you grew?
No, I just brought that over from Canada Country Farms.
Another Southern Humboldt legend.
I see.
Nice.
And, uh, what did you just...
Very purple.
It's got green leaves and black pistols.
And actually, I tossed it at her.
I like that.
And, uh, and...
Cool.
That's your stick profile.
Right? Really unique.
And the guy for me is Skywalker02.
So when is the Johnny Burger DVD this spring?
Oh, yeah.
I get to go through so many different channels to get done.
So it's so inefficient.
I love it when you can be like, that's a good idea.
When you're doing it to your end, I can do it to my end.
It's why I work with owner-operators.
Because I'm telling the owner who's physically in there doing work with his crew.
Um, and they're gonna get what needs to be done.
You know?
And if they need to buy something, it doesn't have to go through management.
And then go through the owners.
And, you know, it's like...
It's a real frickin' nightmare.
It's a nightmare when you're not able to get what you need when you need it.
Or not already have it, you know, on hand.
Whatever that might be.
Yeah, there's really just like, kind of about giving everything I do.
And I think I'm really good at that.
I like to be efficient at that.
You have to be efficient.
It makes it difficult to get things done that need to happen effectively.
Yeah.
And that's the thing.
When we're talking about efficiency.
Let's take integrated pest management, for instance.
If you know that you're having an issue, and something needs to be addressed immediately.
Like, hey, this needs to be addressed today, right now.
Yeah, there's no time to wait.
Yeah.
There can often be, you know, success can...
A lot of times your success can be dependent on timing.
Right?
And that goes the same things like when you prune your plants, when you clone, when you need...
You know, if you're scheduled everything and you're efficient, it streamslines the process.
But...
I think next year we should invest in an ashtray.
Yeah, an ashtray.
We've requested a few.
We don't even have a cup anywhere.
No, they won't let you have cups.
Yeah, right.
Not like a...
We could get somebody over at Leafworks, they have paper cups too.
They're serving tea up at Leafworks Genetics Labs.
Oh yeah, that'd be perfect.
That's delicious. What's that genetic?
Oh, this is a little bit of Michigan Skywalker and Cali Runtz Gelanine.
Speaks to me, I'm from Michigan and lived in Humboldt for the last 20 years.
So, no wonder I like it.
So yeah, back to the IPM thing and the strategies about like timing.
It's so absolutely critical and especially as we're working to find new effective products that are organic and sustainable
and not gonna damage your microbiology and stick around in the plant and convert to negative compounds.
And like, you gotta time it so precisely to get the results you need.
Yeah, and you have to call... It's a maintenance program, right?
That always is in place.
When you're working in a garden, you should have a schedule.
Like, okay, well I need to do my foiler applications, I need to do my root drenches at certain times.
And you do that every week, you know?
And you don't venture off of the SOP that you have in place.
That's one of the things that you just have to kind of put in your budget.
Integrated pest management, if you want to be successful, it's just part of it, you know?
And it's something you just gotta do it.
It's not that any of that doesn't work by the time it's like needed, it's too late.
You gotta be proactive.
You gotta be proactive, part of the schedule.
It's like the old saying, man. An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
I would much rather have my integrated pest management standard operating procedures written out on paper, on a schedule.
That way I don't have to start throwing the kitchen sink at it because something got out of control because I wasn't doing my due diligence.
Yeah, it really... Like you said, you can't wait until you see a problem.
You have to act as if you have the problem.
Always.
You gotta make sure it doesn't happen because once you see it, just assume that you have something.
And always act like there's something there.
And if you do that, you should always keep what's called ecological threshold.
So if there is an issue, it's not a big enough issue to affect your quality or your yield.
Yeah, that's one that experienced growers all learn the hard way.
Like you sleep on it for a minute and then you come back and you've got fruiting bodies of powdery or you have botrytis and it's like, oh, I'll just get the botrytis out.
And once it's at that stage, it's too late.
It spreads. It spreads too.
Because people have to understand these are living things that are gonna sport late and they're gonna move.
Once you get these problems...
Once you get them, as soon as you get them, you've lost the full potential capability.
And you have to physically remove that.
You're never gonna get back to it. You're gonna just prevent it from getting worse.
You probably lost it a couple weeks back before you knew.
Exactly.
And the best thing that you can do if you end up with an issue like that is physical removal and make sure you do your IPM plan.
Powdery mildew should really never be an issue.
If you're on an indoor or greenhouse that you can kind of regulate your temperature in, but can mostly, most of the time be mitigated with air flow and proper pruning techniques.
I mean, and that's what I was about to...
You're gonna get a lot of high nitrogen.
That's what I was...
All sorts of stuff.
Yep, that's what I was just about to touch on.
If your plants are healthy, I'd never see generally healthy plants have powdery mildew issues.
I'll see generally healthy plants get developed powdery mildew issues with certain weather conditions where it starts to drop into really colder temperatures, but it's still humid.
And then also without that air flow, right?
So it's just pruning is a huge thing for me, especially when you're like running 80 foot long beds and you have several of those in there because that soil is holding moisture.
And those plants, they need to be pruned up because they're gonna perspire adding to that moisture in that environment.
You're gonna create like a secondary greenhouse effect underneath your canopy.
So you're layering and stratifying the humidity within your greenhouse.
And if you trap it in on top of that more tender tissue that's not getting the sunlight to help the UV reduction, it's just gonna extrapolate the potential.
Over, too much nitrogen can exacerbate pathogen issues.
I'm seeing people up in Oregon having much better luck with PM issues when they run really low nitrogen.
They gotta get it down.
And they're having like people that all their neighbors got mad PM problems.
You know, this one guy just had his technique where he was running low nitrogen, especially as he went in towards the later fall.
And it's just, especially in high humid environments, that nitrogen is like really critical.
Yeah.
For sure.
The other thing is malabim, like looking at the problem and misidentifying a malabim imbalance because of the nitrogen.
Malabim?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So the thing is the malabim is really the only job for malabim is to act as a nitrogen reductase component.
So it reduces nitrogen into ammonium and then that is converted into amino acids, those are converted into proteins.
I always talk about the benefits of using an amino acid nitrogen source, specifically because L-chain amino acids are available.
It's one of the few actual organic compounds that plants can utilize because it's a low weight molecule that's basically carbon, hydrogen, oxygen and nitrogen.
And it skips that process.
That conversion process takes anywhere from about 15 to 18% of the plant's metabolic energy for the nitrogen conversion into amino acids.
And so if they have access to the amino acid nitrogen, they're going to save that metabolic energy and that energy can be utilized for different metabolic processes within the plant.
Yeah, we were talking yesterday about the efficiency of utilization of the nutrients in the soil, but it's also the efficiency of the plant to be able to utilize them that really makes a huge difference.
It cuts on waste and it just accelerates growth rates and reduces stress.
Any of the amino acids that aren't going to be directly assimilated into the plant tissue is going to feed the microbiology because there's so many of the different types of microorganisms that can utilize those amino acids.
And so all of the nitrogen that's attached to the carbon, oxygen, hydrogen group is going to be mobilized.
So it might be utilized by biology, but that biology is moving around in the soil.
So it's physically mobilizing and it's keeping it in a form that when that microorganism is broken back down, that is going to keep that nitrogen in an available form so that the plant can utilize it.
So that's the benefit of the amino acids.
Tomorrow I'll drop my Dropbox links on my profile on igrust.brandon.
All of the research papers that I've collected, I always put them in the Dropbox so there's always new stuff popping up in there, but I have a ton of stuff on amino acids.
One of the most interesting things about amino acids is this.
They can be stored inside the plant and then used and converted into adenine triphosphate, ATP, which is the exchange currency of all cellular mechanics.
It's ATP. If something requires energy in these biological systems, it's in the form of adenine triphosphate, which is a three group phosphorus compound.
We need a whiteboard up here.
I was thinking that I could write out some really poorly drawn out diagrams.
I love that though, man.
The scribbles, for some reason I'm such a visual learner. I can picture these things a little bit, but when I draw it out, even when it's chicken scratch, it makes more sense.
He did it on a napkin last night. It was great. It was gold.
I still got it in my car.
They've actually done the science. There's a paper called Catabolism, which means the internal breakdown of amino acids in plants.
That's the name of the research paper.
They go through the list of the 20 different amino acids and how much NADPH and ATP are produced by the breakdown.
I don't know if it would be true, but my mind goes to a place where it wonders if you have a storehouse of amino acids and you become deficient in phosphorus,
if they're going to be able to assimilate and use some of that amino acid that's been stored in the plant to create that adenitride phosphate, which is the main thing that phosphate is used for.
Wow. I got to throw this out there because you jogged my memory about it.
I was researching recently the cycle of the Krebs and the ATP involvement and all that stuff.
Magnesium is involved so frequently.
The one thing that just stood out to me so much was it was just so many steps. There was an MG just so often.
I was like, man, it seems like the mag is really essential in all of this.
It also is at the center of all of the chlorophyll molecule.
It's responsible for creating the chemical that is the part of the cell that reacts through photo excitement with the water molecules and sunlight.
That's where the splitting of that one oxygen off of those two hydrogen molecules is taking place.
This is heavy. This is gold.
Then you start having to look really closely at the ratios of magnesium, calcium, and potassium.
Here's the kicker about potassium. We want to know why potassium is so vital and why it's so important and cannabis uses it in such high quantities.
It regulates the opening and closing of stomata.
It's the sole nutrient that is actually responsible for translocation.
When we're thinking about how plants are absorbing water and nutrients, the nutrient can be sometimes through passive transport, which is coming in with the water.
Sometimes it's active transport, which means it takes ATP. It takes energy to pull it in.
Sometimes it just works because of the concentration gradient.
When we're thinking about water going up the xylem, we can't think of it in the terms of what we do think of water as in a liquid form.
It's not. It's in a vapor because these things are molecules. It's a gas.
It's a gaseous vapor as well as all of those elements.
They are also in an elemental form when they're being moved.
When we're talking about the opening of the stomata, that gas is escaping.
That's how the water is being drawn up.
If you think about it from a vapor perspective, if you run out of potassium and you're not letting the stomata open up,
then the translocation of water and elements into the plant cells stops.
Yeah, because it's not releasing it. It's not creating this cycle of pull-up-release that is required for motion.
This gas is part of it. That reminds me of ethylene respiration.
It's going to be when there's gas moving around.
If you speed up the ethylene respiration, you're going to speed up that process, the movement?
I'm not sure what you're referring to with ethylene.
Usually ethylene is produced when things are starting to decompose.
Ethylene is produced in fruit that is ripe.
When you have an avocado that's been picked but it's not ripe, it produces ethylene.
If you take a banana, here's a trick, and this is the reason why.
Let's say you take a banana that's past its ripeness point, maybe slightly brown,
and you put it in a bag with unripened fruit, it'll help the plant to grow.
If you put it in a bag with unripened fruit, it'll help quicken up that ripening process
because ethylene acts as a signaling molecule that helps with the degradation and breakdown of some chemical constituents.
It's the exact same concept of one bad apple spoils the bunch because you have the ethylene being released.
That's the science behind it. It's the ethylene release.
It's a simple concept that we all see and utilize every day,
but when you break it down, it changes the way we can utilize these thoughts.
As far as ethylene internally and those types of mechanisms, I'm not super familiar with those.
I haven't come to that chapter in my book.
I'm a little rusty on it right now. I was just looking at it recently. I'll have to check that out.
Potassium is super, super important.
What I've also seen is that your total potassium as a percentage should be...
Not as a percentage, but when I'm looking at a saturated paste test on PPMs,
I want to see my total potassium be equal or greater than the combination of both calcium and magnesium.
Actually, George taught me this.
It's because the potassium is a monovalent cation, and the calcium and the magnesium are a divalent cation.
Magnesium and calcium have two charges associated with them, and then the potassium only has one.
When they disassociate into solution on the exchange site where they dissociate from,
if it's a calcium that had two charges, then two potential potassiums could get attached back to that site.
That way you'll never run low, and you'll never have more magnesium in your soil than you do potassium.
Because that combination, I think we talked about it yesterday, you start seeing visual symptoms.
Yeah. It's so interesting because we utilize a lot of these same concepts at Royal Gold.
We're buffering cocoa, we're removing salts to make sure all the ratios of the potassium and the calcium and the magnesium
are where they need to be to be used as a growing medium.
It's all of these same concepts that are occurring in the soil and are directly relative to the plant process and its interaction with the soil.
The double positive concept is something that's really important to binding with double negatives that are harmful in your soil to help pull them away as well.
The double positive, double negative anion and cation relationship is something that I clearly don't understand as much as you guys,
but it's so important for us all to continue to really look at.
I think it's really becoming obvious now. It's more obvious now that this is something we have to really look into.
Yeah. I think more and more people are becoming aware of agriculture in general and the practices that are being taken place.
I honestly feel like more people want to be self-sufficient and want independence.
Again, I was talking to you earlier about how true independence comes through self-sufficiency.
Being able to cultivate your own food and your own medicine and learn those old traditional farming styles.
If you can do that even on small scales with chickens in the backyard and having garden beds and growing food for your family.
Just because once you start doing it, you can understand and feel what that freedom real feels like, what real independence is not having to rely on.
The tangible return that you get, as you all know, it's like the matrix. You can't be told or explain what it is.
It's like that feeling that you get. It's just like, wow.
It's also the most anti-authoritarian thing that you can possibly do.
It's one of the most beneficial for me.
Do you know?
For sure. I don't know. I feel like it's so easy to point that out with the herb.
I felt that way when I had warehouses or when I had bros in the city.
Growing herb out with enough land, at least for me to grow, not just a little garden, but to actually produce a good amount of my food and have animals and stuff.
It's so multifaceted, but the one that really strikes out, especially in recent times, I've been feeling it more than ever, is the penciling for me.
It's not even just a hobby. Food is super expensive. I like that.
I was in Hawaii three weeks ago, and one of the things that we notice as we travel, me and my lady, food prices in a lot of other places are getting really expensive.
It's astronomical.
We're seeing it on a rise that we've never seen before. Some people may not be seeing what we're seeing, but if it's not concerning, it should be.
Again, all these things are really easy to do, to provide for your family and to provide for yourself. It's not that difficult of a task.
It just takes a little bit of effort and a little bit of know-how. Anybody can do it.
It brings you so close to the source that you're getting so much more vitality from your food.
That's a really important part of recognizing why the current food distribution system is so poor.
Here's an interesting thing. I could talk about mineral nutrition for a sec, between my vegetable garden or herb.
We rap about this and we talk about it, but a lot of our reasons with herb are really trying to understand the nutritional value.
It's to have the best finished flower for our own smoking enjoyment, for sales, for all kinds of different reasons.
That care for the nutrition on my vegetable gardens doesn't have to do with how pretty it looks going to market or shelf stability or anything.
It's that I'm able to actually get that nutrient-dense food that I'm kind of a little unsure.
It could be organic. I feel maybe better that it has less pesticides on it, just some drift maybe.
But when I buy those same things, I don't know their real nutrient density.
Usually not. Here's the problem. When Walmart is the largest supplier of organic food, and what is organic?
Plants don't actually feed on anything organic. Organic in itself is really a scam.
It's a marketing campaign because plants can only use molecular elements in their elemental form.
With the exception of some low-weight molecules.
But when it comes down to it, it's a marketing ploy and we're still not getting the proper nutrition.
And also, a lot of foods have been made and bred just for appearance and not necessarily their nutritional quality.
And when you're eating fresh food, a lot of those chemical compounds are there that would not be there off something that you'll find on the shelf.
If you were to eat an avocado or a banana off of a tree, you're not going to get the same nutrition or even the same chemical composition that you would.
Because as those things are sitting and being stored and transported, those things as well are going through chemical processes.
These ones that I've been tripping on, like tomatoes would be probably the best example of this.
Tasteless in the store.
Tasteless. Well, they've got gassing rooms.
When you guys were talking about ethylene, I was just thinking about it because it's heavy with tomatoes.
I mean, not everything, but with tomatoes it's a big deal because they're harvesting them so early, they can transfer whatever.
I see the big-ass trucks pulling.
Think about that, stacked that deep and the ones at the bottom are handling it because they're really only about halfway done.
It's easy for us to think about the taste when they use ethylene gas to make it red instead of ripening naturally.
But also, it's about the time that it's spent on the vine.
So even if those nutrients were in the soil, which they're not, on top of it, it didn't grow for its full amount of time.
It's like picking herb early.
Yeah, exactly. You're not going to feel the effect as much as if you let that thing go full term.
It's the same thing. The same principles that we're seeing.
And that's why I love using Canvas and featuring Canvas Agriculture on an educational platform.
It's because it translates across the board to our own health.
Because the foundation of health is our food.
Like what we put in our fucking bodies.
Yeah.
Now we're at this point where our food is genetically less nutrient dense than it used to be 100 years ago.
We have less variety.
And then there's these atmospheric implications like being that as you increase the CO2 in the atmosphere, most fruits become bigger and less dense nutritionally.
So our food is becoming less nutritionally dense.
Plus we're destroying our microbiome and our gut with processed foods.
So we're not absorbing the nutrients that we're getting.
So you're taking a less nutrient thing and then you're getting less nutrients of the less nutrient thing.
And then we're walking around with all these deficiencies.
So there's like the nutrient use sufficiency for the body too, right?
Just like we were talking about nutrient use sufficiency for fertilizers and the things that we're applying to our soils, right?
How effective are these things?
And it's the same.
Look, all of these systems in nature, they mirror each other on small, larger scales, right?
And so when you look at it from that kind of perspective, you can see that all these things are related.
And there's more need for growing your own food now than ever.
And there's more information out there on how to do it properly.
If you're in an apartment, you can grow microgreens on your window sill.
You know what I mean?
The nutrient density of microgreens is about an ounce to a pound and a half usually on most compounds.
Like vitamin this and spinach.
It's usually like an ounce of microgreens equals about a pound and a half to two pounds of the full grown vegetable.
So there's ways now for you to have an intimate relationship with your food.
And I honestly tell people, I'm like, yo, the single most efficient way to make calories is chickens.
It's got to be chickens. Having a chicken or two and making eggs.
What's interesting about chickens is they're natural scavengers.
So you can leave food there and oftentimes they're going to be eating insects out in the backyard, which also helps for your IPM.
So chickens are, in my opinion, a win-win.
I always keep chickens if I'm in a place that I can.
And not only that, but dude, breakfast.
Yeah, and they really do a great job of scratching and disturbing that top layer to keep from compaction and water sheeting off.
And the plants usually come back, unless they're in too small of a space, quick enough that you're not losing it to erosion because it was disturbed at the surface.
You've got to keep chickens out of the garden though.
Yeah, you can let them do a walkthrough.
If you have them really well managed and you have a gate set up where you can just shoo them through, you can let them do a little picking.
But yeah, if you let them go, they're going to eat your food.
They love the bottom of fruits. It's messed up.
It's like they're walking through and they're like, hey, I'm just going to peck this pepper one time.
And then, yeah, chickens are funny.
Yeah.
You ever see one chase a lizard?
You ever see one chase a lizard?
That is a, that's, I just imagine, it's like this primal, like Tyrannosaurus Rex, like, you know, smaller dinosaur encounter.
And the lizard's just like, ahh! And the chicken's like, ah, ah, ah.
I like the way you, I like the visual in my mind of that.
I always imagine it from the lizard's perspective, this giant dagger just coming down at you like something out of a crazy CGI horror film.
Like, it would be gnarly. I feel for them.
I'm no doubt.
I've had crazy cock fights the last couple of weeks. I think I got to do something about it.
Because, like, I usually just have one rooster on my property.
What are we talking about?
We're talking about sustainability, growing your own food.
That's what I was talking about over there.
Yeah, growing your own food.
I like to keep roosters.
I like to keep roosters because they'll protect the hens.
Yeah, that's why I always have one.
Yeah, hey, I think I'm going to hop off and maybe do some walking right now.
Yeah, I need to walk a little bit.
So, I'll see you guys later.
That was good stuff.
Yeah, thanks for joining us again, guys. We really appreciate it so much.
Sorry to hog your day.
I'll be in my bag right there.
We'll be here all day.
I kind of got to go do that. I do the same thing for a little while.
I kind of feel like I got to do the same thing for a little while.
What did I miss? What did you guys smoke after what he had?
Nothing.
Nothing, okay. I didn't miss anything.
No, but we'll probably get into this forbidden fruit, chinamayo.
Yeah, let's do that.
It's nice and light from what I've been told.
I'll be back in a little while. Maybe we'll hop back on.
I just got, I haven't gotten, I didn't go anywhere yesterday.
Me neither.
Thanks, John. Appreciate you.
What was I going to say?
I was just down with Lindsey from Aloha.
Oh, is she coming over?
Yeah, I want to have them come over with some stuff that they,
actually that's what we should really join them. I'll grab her.
Can you tell jokes for one minute?
Yeah, I can try. Let's try and get Ryan over here too.
We got some great stories.
Where's Ryan?
Ryan, Lindsey's husband from Aloha.
He said he's got a giant bin of all these flavors,
and I told him to bring the turkey bags over.
All right, I'll go grab them.
Why don't you guys talk?
Yeah.
Tell us about the food.
It's a music, you can be our musical correspondent.
You have to give reports back on demand.
So yeah, all in all, this event has been fantastic.
For all of you guys watching at home, thanks for tuning in to Future Cannabis Project.
Peter is an amazing person on the platform that you guys all created here.
The entire community online that participates and supports this platform
is really inspirational for what we do at Royal Grown Radio.
There's just a lot of positivity coming out of what you guys all do at home,
tuning in to what's happening here in the community.
I'd like this opportunity to say thank you. We really appreciate it.
We're going to try and get Rick Elliott of Royal Grown Radio back over here in a minute.
We got some more folks coming to join us.
We're hoping to get a wide variety of other farmers, producers.
Oh, there's Rick now. We'll see if we can wave him in.
But we got a great variety of people that we want to have participate with us today.
Welcome back, Rick.
We got Amber from Sunkist Farms.
She wants to hop on with us.
Excellent. We've got Ryan and Lindsay from Aloha, I think, making their way over here now.
Peter's off grabbing some more people to join us.
Wonderful.
We're hoping to get Craig from Satori, a common guest and good friend of ours, to come.
He said he's got some strains.
We talked on our podcast earlier this year, going into spring, about all the genetics he was doing.
He said it was the year of the Zs and had something like 25 Z strains that he was messing with.
We're really hoping to get him to come.
I like it. I almost bought into a couple of those here on the trip.
The Emerald Cup this morning that just came out.
That's definitely the new rage.
The Zs and some purple.
The Zs and the purples.
What was it? The Super Runs that the line was around the block for a cut for $1,000.
Is that what they were calling it? Super Runs?
The Super Runs. Runs on Runs on Runs on Runs.
$1,000.
It's funny, though. People make it a big deal, spending $1,000 on a clone.
But when you think about it, it's really easy to sell $1,000 worth of clones and get your initial investment back.
And then you've got a great genetic.
You throw a couple of trays out and grow a few pounds.
Really, was it that much of an expense if it's something that fits your needs and is marketable?
I guess the challenge is predicting what's actually going to fit your needs and what's actually going to be marketable
six months or a year before it's actually going to be ready.
At least at scale.
Yes, I agree.
I was just talking to Carl over at Eden Farm in Honeydew, California.
They won the Emerald Cup a few years back.
He's actually working with the Wu-Tang Clan, who are here presenting and doing their brand launch.
We're hoping to get those guys over here as well in a little bit.
Today has been a Honeydew, Ettersburg sort of day.
We were talking with the folks from Humble Synchronicitries.
They're going to be back over here talking about their farm in Ettersburg.
We were talking to Canna Country Farm, who said he's going to save his interview for another day because he's been partaking properly for the Cup.
But they're also out in Ettersburg.
I've seen a lot of that.
A lot of good friends were like, we're going to come chat.
We're like, four edibles later.
We love you guys, but I don't think I can chat.
There'll be some of that for sure.
I just met with Eric from Humboldt Kine Farms as well.
He was going to pop over as well.
I love it.
We're going to have a wide variety of conversation.
A lot of these folks are also regenerative farming and organic, but there's a wide variety of the way these people are cultivating for their microclimates.
I'm really interested in seeing how some of these conversations evolve.
That's the beauty of this. Everyone's got their own touch.
We've seen the same genetic grown by many people in competition.
It's amazing the differences.
Yeah.
We were talking about this yesterday, kind of off mic.
We were looking at some of the differences in different people's sun growns, different regions, and genetic profiles.
This is a nugget, Gary Payton, that is sun grown out in Willow Creek by a guy who's been cultivating the plant since 1978.
Great asset in our community.
It's just dirty, nasty, stinky, chunky nugget.
Those super nasty turf profiles.
So good.
Then we were looking at this genetic, also beautiful sun grown from 100 miles away is the crow flies probably.
Look at that tight, gentle, soft structure that I'm just smashing all over the place.
Check out that turf profile.
This is a Hawaiian genetic bred back to the forbidden fruit.
It's incredible, right?
Forbidden fruit's one of my favorites.
He was telling me it bleeds purple, which I love.
I love it.
I love it when you break a patio off and you see that little goopy, purpley drip.
It's genetic, it's not a nutrient deficiency.
It's really a trip.
You've got the black calyxes and green leaves.
To me, that's fantastic.
The pink pistils are starting to make a good comeback.
Pink and purple pistils?
Yeah, what are some of the genetics you've been seeing with the pink and purple?
There is a waffle cone that I'm trying to get my hands on at the moment.
It's a jealousy cross and it's supposed to be amazing.
The pinks and purples calyxes are just really profound and stand out.
I'm trying to get my hands on that one.
That's supposed to be a really good one.
I can't remember what the other cross is.
I got a couple things today.
I just got some Gushmints, which I'm excited about.
It's a good one.
I'm glad I know you.
I know, man.
I've been kind of stocking up on the genetics with this one.
It's been kind of fun.
We're all waiting in line to get some Chauffeurs yesterday morning from Finest.
Those guys always do a good job.
I got a couple of things from them too.
The Z Cam.
Yeah, I was talking to those guys and I was like,
hey man, I hear the Chauffeurs, the hot drop.
I want to get a couple.
It totally is.
It's going to go really fast.
Grab a Z Cam.
I'm glad I did.
I think you're telling me that now.
As always, Rick, that intuition's got you.
It was funny.
I was over at Purple City.
I was trying to pick up the Zeb.
That's supposed to be a hot one too.
They're like, brother, we're all out.
I'm like, oh man.
What's the timeline?
Can I meet up after the event next week?
What's the chances?
I'm like, it's probably going to be about three to four months.
I'm like, man, in the cannabis game these days,
three to four months, things come and go.
I can't wait three to four months.
It's too quick.
Now we've got to track down a homie that got one.
That's where Duke, the fireplace,
he's going to hook up.
I already worked it out.
The furthest that they were distributed was Ukiah at the moment.
They're going to put that together and cruise on up to Arcata
and get a distributorship for their genetics.
Purple City, if you're not following those guys on IG,
you should do it.
They've got a great following.
A lot of their growers run their genetics.
Their post, their flower, it's just on point.
I just got turned on to them about six months ago.
They're putting out some really firework.
That's one I'm not familiar with.
Thanks for the heads up on that.
You got it.
It's a good time.
It comes and goes.
It's so interesting.
There was a time in Humboldt where you couldn't give away a purple pound.
Two years ago, people were like,
anything not purple, my buyers don't want anything purple.
It's the exact opposite right now.
It just comes in waves.
I love purple weed, but it's not all I want.
No, exactly.
I'm more of a chirp person.
I want to close my eyes and choose.
Absolutely.
What's the most interesting non-genetic related thing
that you've seen at the Cup this year?
I would say the music.
Maybe it's more of a personal taste thing,
but I'd say it's more up my alley.
The vibe itself.
Music can play such a huge role in an overall feel of a party, an event.
You can go out to a restaurant and they've got some shitty music
at a way too high volume.
It can really just change the experience,
and this Cup, I feel like the music is just setting the mood
in a different way than I can say I've felt in previous years.
I'm not one for maybe a lot of the EDM stuff.
Just having a closer like Trevor Hall last night,
that was beautiful.
It was really well done.
The beauty is it's a good friend of ours
that actually handled the production.
I don't know if you knew that Matty from World Famous
and his team actually put on pulling the music in this year.
I didn't know it until I ran into him
almost all the way through the day.
I was talking and I was like,
man what a great job they've done with the lineup this year.
He was like, thanks man.
I didn't know where to go.
Which is surprising because he's kind of into the EDM thing too.
It's his specialty.
He's fantastic at it.
He's a really great guy.
Check out World Famous Productions if you get a chance to.
They put on some amazing shows up in the Humboldt area.
If you're coming through trying to scoop some Humboldt genetics,
get some pounds, whatever it is,
keep an eye out for the events they throw.
A lot of the Arcada Theatre Lounge.
Man, it's a piece of the community that's integral in all we do.
It's really awesome.
The vast diversity of the crowd he brings in.
It's cultivators, it's consumers,
it's people of all walks of life.
Definitely worth going to those shows.
He's definitely a good community guy.
He's a great asset for sure.
On the music tip, being where we are in Humboldt,
we're in this little slice between Portland and San Francisco
when it comes to touring acts.
It doesn't always work out.
Sometimes we can go a month or two without anybody of a credible name.
We find ourselves traveling out of the area.
If you're somebody who lives on live music,
I know I'm one of them.
I found myself driving down to Terrapin and Marin
or somewhere in San Francisco to see a show
because I'm fiending.
People like Matty have done amazing things for Humboldt County
bringing in that music.
Keeping the site of Reggae on the River alive
with the Northern Knights Festival,
they do a really fantastic job of keeping that site alive.
They're doing amazing activations.
They were actually one of the first events
to have a licensed consumption lounge inside the event.
It was set up in a way that it wasn't completely segregated
from the music or the crowd.
You could get right up in the consumption lounge,
right up by the stage just like you could on the other side
in the beer tent or in the center in just gen pop
where you're not consuming something that's a regulated substance.
I really take a lot of inspiration from what those guys do
and looking at events like this,
they're really on the cutting edge of putting things together.
I remember that when they actually popped up in front of the stage.
Hey, what's up Peter?
Hi, how are you guys?
I believe you look familiar.
I feel like we've met before.
Maybe you just have that familiar face.
Yeah.
I'm sure we've crossed paths at these events.
Maybe you guys crossed paths in LA.
Maybe.
It's possible, right?
Was it maybe at Tim and Taylor's event in April or May?
Were you down there for that?
It was like the launching of the-
I've just been around this canvas industry
and in this community for about 20 years.
There's a lot of ways we could have found each other in some way, shape or form.
I know him from SoCal and I always assumed he was from LA.
I was like, did you drive up from LA or fly up?
He was like, I live up here.
I was like, what?
He was like, I've always lived up here.
My family's fourth generation from here.
I'm like, so why the fuck do I always think you're from LA?
I swear it.
That's awesome.
What do you do, Jared?
What's your involvement in the industry?
Obviously, we've been crossing paths for years, a degree of separation.
What do you do?
I think now I run a trade organization of retailers.
We operate in local and state policy.
That's where I think I spend most of my time and energy.
Can we talk about the contrast and the vibe here versus Hall of Flowers?
Yeah.
Talk about it because you were just at Hall of Flowers.
Yeah.
Being born and raised in Northern California, you have this desire that when you go to a party,
you want to show your best weed and you want people to enjoy it and you want to explain what you did.
That's how Hall of Flowers and Emerald Club has always been here.
People ask questions, especially other cultivators and distributors.
All the licensed types want to know something more.
The first Hall of Flowers here just this year was really collaborative and community.
Everyone's hugging and stuff.
Then you go to LA and there's almost the imperative to feel like you don't want to think other people matter.
You want to have an ego that I'm so important that I don't need to be in contact.
The discussion was so much more business relation, like how much per pound, what do I get labeled?
Not like what is the story and what's the communication and how do I better represent your product?
That does show the difference between sometimes a Northern California consumer,
who usually is only one or two degrees separation away from a grower,
to LA where six degrees of separation is reality.
They only really do get to the point where they care about price because that's maybe not a direct ROI that they see,
like connecting with people.
When I first opened my shop in LA after being a retailer in San Francisco for 14 years,
I made a really nice lobby and all the chairs were matching.
I realized when I'm watching everyone coming to the shop is they don't like to make eye contact.
People in LA don't.
It's like going into a corn store or something.
I had to change the height of all the chairs, put in different sizes.
People weren't just looking for a distraction so they don't have to make eye contact.
They started looking at the walls and looking at the art.
You almost have to trick the consumer into being interactive and to learn that about,
I don't want to say it's the culture, but just learn about what the expectations are for retail in LA.
To get them to actually make comments and be open and be transparent because we're actually here to help,
that's a huge barrier there because everyone thinks you're going to get scammed or they're protecting themselves.
It was a weird transition and even now trying to bridge that for farmers.
You do realize that I maybe get one out of every 10,000 people who ask if I have anything from Humble.
That's not a marketing strategy for the one out of 10,000 retailers.
When one person asks you to come run into the back room, you're like,
Holy crap, we got a lot!
We got a lot of stuff here.
All of the tech mass today.
Yeah.
But that's sad because we still have to appeal to that market.
LA's 25% of the retail sales in the entire state, just the city.
If we don't appeal to that market, then we're not appealing to the consumer who has some demand.
And they've got a lot.
Some of that is the marketing.
I've noticed for years a lot of my best friends are great growers,
but they haven't quite embraced the other side of business.
Especially when it comes to marketing and putting yourself out there.
Some of the model in California too kind of sets it up for that with distro.
We were recently up on a trip in Oregon.
We were up in Oregon on a trip recently.
What are you doing?
We were talking to a grower who was actually able to market his own stuff to dispensaries.
He actually goes out, he sells his own product, he creates that relationship.
And that's kind of a missing part.
I think in Humboldt, the state is vastly different from north to south in so many ways.
I work down there.
I go to LA all the time, but I live up in Humboldt.
And I see that difference where there is that old legacy vibe and the connectivity
between the growers and the pride of the flower that they're growing.
There is a level of that up here.
Where in LA it's very business and it's very competitive.
It's something that I feel like that's one of the things we like to do with this podcast
is to bring that vibe in Humboldt, these legacy growers.
The things that we've been doing and talking about up here for four decades.
Bring that to these new markets so that we can keep some of this old cannabis vibe alive.
And coming from a place where it was about education and it was about providing for patients
and it was trying to give people what they needed and then give them what they want next.
That was kind of the order of operation.
And that's not the order of operation at all.
I'm not a consumer in LA.
And to change that whole order of operation and yet have the expectations
that I'm supposed to educate the consumer first.
I need them to trust me first so they'll even listen to me.
So I have to have a good product at a good price to capture them.
Then maybe the next time they come in, I chip away at the ego
before we get to the real transparency.
And then I have a customer for life because they now know they can trust me.
I'm not here to scam you.
I'm not your normal transaction maybe in LA where perceived value is the only value.
I'm actually providing real value.
And when you really start to get that demographic,
knowing they can break down some of those barriers and guards,
then you have access to educate them.
But so that's like all of a sudden that's like lower on the priority list and that's sad.
But I want to set clear expectations.
I'm an economist. I run data sets.
I check every time when someone comes in, how they self-identify.
The age, the demographic, what they bought, why they bought it twice,
why they don't buy a social equity brand versus like we're testing that.
And I'm trying to understand that market because I'm not that market.
And I can't say here, let me push my 15 years of retail experience in the North Bay
onto this location because that doesn't do it.
This is now my ninth year.
It's told me that I've also built a customer base over nine years
that wants the education side.
But if I'm going to attract a younger, new patient, new person,
how do I attract them with media when it's saturated?
I'm not trying to do TikTok dances to get you into my shop
because I'm not going to dance once you get there.
And so I don't want to set bad expectations.
But so what I've learned is, is like this market wants it quick.
They want it yesterday and they just want to think it's the best product out there.
If you tell them a story, they can tell their friends about who they smoked with
or why this is like important to them.
You got to tell them quick little pieces of information that they will go share with their friends.
And no one shared with their friends, which farmer they know in LA.
They talk about which celebrity they smoked with.
So you have to attach this different value so they can go now identify with it.
Then they go to tell their friends, their friends identify with it.
And then hopefully the next time we give them a better story to tell.
And they want sharp, clean branding, not like kind of elaborate storytelling branding.
And that's one challenge that a lot of, you know, the farms and kind of legacy people,
they're like telling the story through the photo on the label.
And if it's not sharp and streamlined, a lot of the younger generation doesn't really want to like
read into a more elaborate photo set or things like that in some of the packaging.
So it's difficult for these legacy farmers to kind of cross that minute 30 second impact window
and get any story across that they can connect with a grower to start to break that shell like you're trying to do.
What I'm doing now is I'm just putting a farmer's market inside my shop.
Farmers can come for free, sell their products.
I'm just going to let you, it's the only place.
It's the only place.
Where? In that little place.
It's a gorgeous shop, but it's little.
Not anymore.
Oh, you expanded it.
We were 1800 square feet for almost four and a half years.
We're now 10,000 square feet and encompass three buildings.
Oh, you bought more buildings. That's right.
And so now my goal is to say, I want you to prove to the consumer that talking to the farmer is most important.
And if you have the messaging and that lands, then yes, train my butt tenders.
But if you come to the shop as your representative of your brand, of your legacy,
and you're saying, this is the way I want you to sell my product.
And you see how hard it is to connect with that tourist who's only there for a week, 50 million tourists a year.
You think they want to take four hours to hear about their pain and suffering?
Maybe, but maybe not.
And what does that LA based person want to hear about?
How much time are they devoting to this in their life?
Like I want everyone to understand that better.
So they're getting tourist traffic.
Oh yeah. Oh, definitely.
We're talking like 24% of my businesses is passport holders.
Wow. Passport holders.
Not just out of state, out of country.
Are you marketing directly?
Are you aggressive trying to attract them in?
That's impossible. The global market.
I don't even know where to start.
How are they finding you?
Well, because I do have search engine optimization.
They can Google me. You can do those things.
And so with that, when you're trying to create an experience, people need to go on to Yelp or TripAdvisor.
I mean, that's awesome, but they're coming into the Valley to come to you. That's awesome.
Well, they're also coming to Universal Studios, which they're on their way to.
I gotcha. Which it's close to. Okay. That makes sense.
So I have to appeal to that destination location.
And I'm in the middle. How do I catch you before you get there?
Yeah. Give them a clean product they can consume inside or around there.
There's no consumption lounges in LA.
Which is insane.
I agree.
There's a restaurant though. Don't you have the restaurant in Hollywood?
I'm close because all they could do is deliver prepackaged products to their store.
And then there was a herpes outbreak that happened on their reusable stuff.
So consumption lounges are going to have to talk about what are we doing to bring your own and stuff like that.
We talk consumption lounges because I want to have one.
But it probably won't be a very discreet one to begin with.
Awesome. So here's the discussion right now.
And I just read a post that they're not working because they're not the Starbucks model.
If you don't have sales on site.
Oh yeah. It's impossible.
Why are you going to wait five minutes and have someone else walk you in a packet of salad dressing?
Let's talk farmer's markets.
Because that's a topic that I think consumption lounges and farmer's markets would be awesome.
What's the perspective of the retailers on farmer's markets?
Because every small farmer here could survive if they could every month go sell weed to whoever wants to buy it.
Well let's look at it. Let me put on my retailer hat so we can have the discussion from the retailer back.
Can you also put on your UCBA hat?
Definitely.
And your small grower hat.
Exactly.
From a retailer standpoint, I don't have saturation as a retailer to look for other competition in the market.
If I had a line out the door and everyone was demanding this product, then yes, everyone should have access to it.
And they already should.
But as a retailer, I'm not at saturation yet.
And so how is it to believe that all of a sudden saturation for the market can come with the same pricing?
Maybe a different story.
But that's the problem with the California system right now.
That being true, that doesn't negate the fact that they're being squeezed out of existence.
So it's the worst of both worlds in that sense.
That's the problem. I think everyone wants to say there's a problem somewhere else.
And I'm saying there's a problem with retailers.
We got it. We know that we don't know all the stories.
We can't train 24-year-olds to be psychologists and doctors' recommendations and then telling your legacy and then being a tour guide and also being a good employee.
That's a 24-year-old. How much expectations do you have?
And yet 67% of the time in my shop, when someone asks for a recommendation, they take the bud tender's recommendation.
67% of the time. That's how powerful that 24-year-old is.
And we're not getting them to a place where they can take all that on.
So here's my theory and my experience.
The reason that is so is because it's now a CPG industry.
I experienced first years ago when I went up to Washington to an Uncle Ike's.
I walked in and we were still 215 down in LA.
And all I saw was branded packaged product.
And I didn't know any of it.
So I was totally dependent upon that bud tender, which was really uncomfortable for me.
And I preferred the days when you'd walk in, they'd weigh it out, and then you'd have that minute to discuss.
That minute between the bud tender and the consumer where you're evaluating, a sale is made.
That last minute. And now where it's just jars and packages.
How do you meet the needs of that person?
My perspective, I am a patient and a consumer.
So I come to all these discussions from that and I go into retail shops all the time.
And I'm like, oh, but I also know I've been doing it for a long time.
So I know I'm not a total newbie.
And I'm like, it's a very, very difficult environment right now.
It's underwhelming if you're a really cannabis connoisseur to go into most dispensaries.
But I could say that about most retail experiences.
I could go into Best Buy.
I could have done all the research on Consumer Reports and know exactly what I want from a TV.
And yet the idiot there has got no clue what I'm talking about.
So like the retail is a difficult position to be in.
And I'm trying to be realistic because as a small farmer, I always got to sell through my dispensaries.
So I've had the same consumer market my entire career.
Let me throw one thing back at you.
Because you are an OG retailer.
So you're one of the retailers that came out of the medical market.
And I've talked to so many, their heart and soul is into that medical service.
So that's already in your DNA.
So you're not going to lose that.
Because you were thinking it wasn't and you were in there for the money.
No, no, no, you're saying you can't ask us to do everything, to do all these things.
But originally, that's why so many of you got into cannabis retailing.
Because that's to help you.
But I also had a Northern California cannabis shop.
And that was my experience.
So yeah, I built in that.
And when Michelle Aldridge got stage 4 breast cancer and took Rick Simpson oil.
And I finally saw someone who was close to me, who I loved and cared about, who advocated for the plant.
Who all of a sudden took her own medicine when her life was at risk.
That changed the way that I looked at this somewhat, is this snake oil?
Is this working for everyone?
I realized it worked for me, but we're all different.
That really was a turning point in my medicine side of things.
Because I always felt like, yeah, it's helped me with things.
Got less anxiety, I'm relaxed.
But man, that was it for me.
And from that point on, I knew it wasn't snake oil.
I knew for a fact in my experience to see someone survive it.
And to see an advocate like that go through the problems she tried to save everyone else from.
And then she saved herself.
That's what I want to tell people.
But not everyone wants to talk about that.
No doubt. Do you have a vertical license?
I did until 2017 and the fires destroyed multiple farms here in Sonoma County.
Where I lost my legacy cultivation.
It's now gone.
I lost strains I grew for 15 years.
I lost my infrastructure.
In LA you bought more stores, but you're not growing down there?
I'm not growing my...
Anywhere?
No, I'm done. Sonoma County fire destroyed me.
Wow, I'm so sorry.
That was a tough one.
There was a good number of farms that were affected by that Santa Rosa fire.
Whether it was their home, their dispensary, their hydro store.
I know friends that lost everything in multiple spots.
But I was thinking like LA retail.
I know a lot of retailers.
And if you don't have some ancillary revenue sources,
just being a retailer, margins are so thin, it's so difficult.
I have a distribution license.
I used to grow for my menu.
For 17 years I grew for my own menu.
20 strains to make sure I covered all terpenes and all effects and smells.
Diversity was the only reason for me to be a retailer.
What about today?
Today I don't grow my own.
I guess I'm talking the economics of your LA shop.
Does that make it really...
Is it very difficult?
To be honest, I got $137,000 in profit on $11.4 million in retail sales.
That's my P&L statement.
I don't know any business that would do this for the 0.01% of profit margins
that were available to me with the kind of risk I took on.
Personal risk. Personal liability.
I had some mortgages being taken away from me from banks who saw that I had other...
That's a lot of risk for that little reward.
It's a lot of out-of-pocket expenses.
I even do distribution and stuff like that so that I have some labor I can write off of my federal taxes.
I have some deductions within my umbrella, but there's not many you have.
So difficult.
The prices are so high.
In those nine years in LA, was there a time when you tried to add another store?
I mean, now that I have you, I'm just nosy.
Did you try to expand your footprint over those nine years down in LA?
Or did it just not happen?
The barriers were just too high for such a long time that we helped write Measure M after writing Prop D.
And we were trying to make sure those 189 legacy operators who had been playing by all the rules for a while
got priority processing.
So that's what we really tried to push forward as a UCBA organization.
We said, let's at least plant the retail flag here.
We wrote the priority legislation on dispensaries and let everyone else in the industry write Measure M for their needs.
And so there was a lot of input.
And I don't want to pat myself on the back, but the only part that worked on that particular Measure M
is the fact that there's 189 retailers who are grandfathered in.
It was the same sort of dynamic.
Like, we built this and that effort was a long time.
$1.7 million. It took a group of 32 people to get 109,000 signatures and qualify an ordinance in LA.
And we're doing that again this year because the taxing is an effective 11.4% tax.
Because LA has decided to put their gross receipts tax on sales tax.
Oh, that's going to burn everybody.
Which is illegal in almost every aspect.
But we know that if we sue them, we can't communicate to them anymore.
It's a crazy system right now.
So we're doing a ballot initiative.
We're actually working with Andrew Westhall.
Is this UCBA?
My next question was, where is its focus right now?
Well, our focus is on, you know, LA as a city.
We have a lot of members.
And you're not just LA. You're throughout the state.
No, our LA membership focuses just on LA initiatives.
We have a UCBA California, which is our statewide organization,
which we focus mostly just on state needs or the intersection between locals and the state.
And so that's kind of where we put most of our emphasis.
A lot is on the state level.
And it's all retailers? You don't have members?
No, we have a two thirds mandate of voting members have to have a retail license.
So 66% of our membership needs to be voting members of retail.
And we have all the other license types.
And we do represent them quite a bit,
especially in things like when Cultivation was going to get a kind of a Title 24 compliance,
and they were going to mandate like 1.9 micromoles per joule of wattage for anything indoors.
Like, well, why?
70% of the industry is still going to be using those shitty bulbs anyway.
Like, what are you really changing?
You're just making us less competitive.
And you're forcing people to have been growing under lights.
Where did that idea come from?
Oh, that's probably a public utilities commission report.
But you know, it took like almost a year.
All right, but we got to roll some joys.
So Chris is coming over with farmers.
We got farmers.
Farmers!
Well, thanks for the time, gentlemen.
Thanks for coming.
Are you going to be hanging out over there?
I can't make that claim.
I don't know where I'm hanging out.
You're still in San Francisco, right?
Is that your home?
Yeah, I live right under, I mean, I can see the Ferry building from my window.
Talk about the smash and grabs lately, all of the fucking robberies.
What's your take, man?
It's just an increased cost.
You know, we're putting 24-hour security in.
You know, we're lining our windows with security film.
How many of your members are in Oakland?
I'm sure you have retail members.
We do. We've got four.
And I think the problem is, is no one knows where it's coming next.
And no one really knows how to stop it unless you're going to put a, you know,
even if you put a gate up in front, they're still going to break a window.
That's usually where most of the damage comes from anyway, cost-wise.
Well, I don't know.
We got a lot of people trying to storm the gates of our industry,
regulators and labor unions.
I thought we were getting away from the police and from, like,
just the direct criminal element, but it's like, they're all back.
And now everyone's out for us.
So, thanks gentlemen, appreciate your time.
Thank you, appreciate it.
I'll go sit over there.
...over to, and you already said you're pretty high,
so you don't have to smoke very much of it, but you got to roll it.
And tell us about what we're going to smoke.
So, I'm going to have to set this down.
That is a heavy table.
That is like cast iron.
It's a friend of ours up in Arcana.
Oh, Michael Braddon.
Yep, McIntosh Farms.
He's been doing it for several decades.
I smell that.
Amazing.
What do you got there?
It's a true rider.
It's a crossbar jetto knife.
Oh, wait, sorry, you got to hold it.
I always listen to what he was saying.
So, this is a true rider.
It's named after our second son, his name's True Rider.
He was born up on the ranch that we live on.
And so, this is a cross of our Jedi Knights,
which is like some mystery fire OG.
The terpenes and the resin production were super awesome on that plant,
but it was really weak.
It had the weakest branches I'd pretty much ever seen,
and it was kind of prone to getting powdery mildew.
So, I took that and crossed it with some genetics that had been growing.
And this is in Mendocino.
This is in Mendocino.
Our farm is in Redwood Valley, the western hills of Redwood Valley.
So, we live on an intentional community that was started officially in 1972,
called Greenfield Ranch, kind of a back to the lander, hippie community.
Chia was born on the ranch,
and my dad was one of the first people to buy into it.
So, both of our families grew up there.
Did you guys know each other?
Yeah, you know, I went over to...
Her brother's about a year older than me,
so I was kind of hanging out with him and went over to play at their folks' place.
They live in the center of the ranch.
We're kind of at one end of the ranch.
It's a long, narrow 5,500 acre strip.
And I went to play with him.
In the center, they had dammed up the creek in the late 1800s.
There's a big community pond out there.
And we wanted to go to the pond.
And at that point, Chia was just a little diaper baby.
So, the parents made us take her with us to go to the pond.
We didn't want to, but there was a trail that cut through the woods to get over there.
And we decided to cut through and take that trail.
It's hot during the summer.
So, you take the baby and don't leave her behind.
Exactly.
But on the way there, we came around a bend
and we just heard some thundering and rustling.
And we looked up and there was a whole herd of boar right in front of us on the trail.
And the big males stood there snorting and scratching the ground.
And the females and the babies took off the other direction.
And as I remember it, so did Toby, her brother.
He took off running too.
You like the white guys.
Yeah, right.
He sacrificed us.
And so, I was standing there, you know, stuck with Chia.
Right, yeah, right.
So, yeah, that was my meeting Chia part of the story.
So, we've since had two kids on our property, which is on the ranch.
We found out right after we were pregnant, we were pregnant with our first child,
which the farm is named after.
Those are his two, his first two middle names, River, Chia, it's named after him.
Chia being like an Amazonian Indian word for like,
it was traditionally a greeting between men, kind of namaste-ish.
Like the part of you that's in me is the part of me that's in you.
So, we had two kids up there, named the farm after him,
and named a couple of things after our younger son, True, this being one of them.
So, it's a cross of that fire OG with some old stuff they've been growing on the ranch.
It was like a really nice, thick, dark-leaved indigo strain, you know, pretty old school, really resiny,
pretty early, big fat buds, and it was a really nice,
pretty early, big fat buds, and I had crossed that with a blue dream cut,
and that's where we got the True Berrymore.
Yeah, really good, strong hybrid.
You know, I've never heard of the commune that you were talking about.
I lived up on a place called Black Bear Ranch up in the Salmon River,
and I was also starting in the late 60s, back to the nature movement.
That's where I really cut my teeth as far as cannabis growing too,
you know, living up in those mountains, and some of the older folks that started that place in 68,
and had moved out to the surrounding area, you know, these guys were growing the best cannabis that I'd ever smoked.
Being an East Coaster and moving out here in the early 90s, it blew my mind how good cannabis could be, you know.
And some of the strains that these guys were doing, the genetic work that those guys were doing back then,
it really is the intentional community network in Northern California,
and what it's done for cannabis, I think, is an understatement.
You know what I mean?
Like, some of that cannabis growing that was coming out of the hippie counterculture and all that, man,
that's literally why we're here today.
I feel like I learned so much to learn from the methods and the way people were doing it,
and the respect for what they were going through back then.
I mean, it was hard work.
We're talking about, you know, farming in a greenhouse that's 100 feet from the house you live in,
doing growth style, and up and down mountains.
Yeah, up and down trees.
Oh, yeah, absolutely.
Dealing with deer and rats and everything else.
It was a different world.
It was a different world.
There was a big raid on our ranch in 1980.
They came in with helicopters and lots of vehicles.
It was scary times, you know.
They did the same thing at the Black Bear Ranch, but actually took their tomatoes.
There wasn't any cannabis growing.
They actually busted them for tomatoes.
There's actually a news article that's framed in the main house just describing the whole story.
Yeah, it's actually a pretty embarrassing moment for law enforcement, right?
Yeah.
Hey, Lindsay.
Hey, what's up, man?
Nice for you guys to join us.
Brought our really foxy turkey bags here.
Yeah.
These folks, Northern Humboldt.
Yeah, we know each other.
Awesome.
I'm Chia, and Chia and I have done cannabis pairings with Karrish from Full Flower Futures.
Sweet.
Very nice.
So, how was the day so far?
Great.
I tried to get that cut that we were talking about last night, and they're completely out.
Won't have it for three months.
Yeah, what?
I was here at 11 a.m. on the dot.
Yeah.
Did you pick up any genetics this weekend?
No.
Well, you know, I'm just focusing on what I've got right now.
I've got a lot of seeds in the past few years, and I think I have plenty of shoes probably.
I'm a glutton for punishment with the veno hunts.
I just keep looking at more seeds.
Yeah.
It's tough not to in some ways, but it felt good not to too.
Making some decisions.
We're trying to go smaller this year too, so we're spending more time with the family
and less time working.
The things that are acclimated to your region are always going to do better.
Yeah.
I mean, I've picked up lots of stuff that does good at my house, but I usually like to mess with it before I make it mine.
Yeah, that's great.
And didn't you name some of your genetics after your kids?
I did.
So, this is one of them.
Is it? What is it?
It's an offspring of the Jedi Knights.
So, how did you pick out what you guys grew this season?
I've been working with these for a few years, you know.
And so, we kind of have some flagship strains, and then I try to develop new ones along the way.
So, I've made a couple things this year that we'll bring on the menu next year.
And what direction are you going in with the stuff you made this year for next year?
In terms of?
Like, flavor profile. Like, what do you, whether it grows easy or it has a good flavor profile or a good high?
You know, so, I feel like I have a different relationship with all my different plants and my different cultivars,
and they speak to me in different ways and do different things for me.
Flavor is really important. Nose is really important.
Like, the whole experience of it and the effects are all pretty equally important for me.
So, I've got to try a lot of things and then taste them, see how they grow.
I try to work away from things that are prone to powdery mildew or certain strains get attacks.
You know, they're great for like sticking in one area and sucking up all the mites that are in the area,
but I try to stay away, find things that are a little bit more resistant.
And just things that grow well in our area. We have like a southeast facing slope,
so we get some early morning sun, but even in the middle of summer,
like the sun's off the garden by like 5 o'clock, 6 o'clock in the afternoon.
It's about 1500 feet. Yep.
And then I also pick certain strains for different areas in terms of how they harvest and when,
and when they're going to get the sunlight.
So, I kind of play off a lot of things that we already have so far.
Like this is a cross with the Jedi, which we're also running.
For next year, Daniel at Heart Rock Farm crossed our Lemon Fire OG with some tangy he had.
And that thing, you know, we had 10 of them.
My son River actually like doused to pick out his plant and that one came out by far the best.
Like the nose and the structure and everything.
And the flavors, so it tastes just like it smells.
So, things like that are going to make it in the lineup.
Things that just really speak to me.
Looking for, you know, some more things that are pretty bright and like kind of really hit you in the nose
and make you feel good just smelling it.
And when you dry hit it and then of course after you light it.
Is this the tangy cross you're talking about?
I'm talking about everything in general, but yeah, particularly that tangy cross.
It was like one of my favorites this year.
Awesome. So, are you keeping some of the other ones?
Are you doing some selections from this year for breeding projects next year?
Yeah, so I have a mom of that going.
And then I'll probably start some males of that cross as well.
What time do you pop your seeds?
We did in February last year because there was this amazing eclipse.
I was like, we've got to pop it on the eclipse.
It's going to be, it's a new moon.
We're doing all these things and it's too early.
March?
Yeah, March. I don't think you really need to pop them in February.
They grow fast and they're going to start sexing in six weeks.
Roughly, anyway.
Early enough so that they sex, but not so early that you're dealing with cutting them back all the time.
Yeah, I mean I usually would start after February 14th, but then I've been pushing it back into March.
And then I think this season I'm going to kind of take it a little easier and I'm not planning on planting really the garden until the end of June, beginning of July.
That's classically what we do.
You don't plant earlier.
I think everybody had this mentality that we all had to grow so much more and scale up and do more and work harder, which we do.
But honing in on your own space and knowing what performs well is so important.
How many years have you been on your farm?
Well, on our, where we live right now, it's been 20.
20?
20 years, yeah.
So you really know your land at that point and your microbes are solid.
We kind of built the place out from scratch.
There is a shell of a house and a little cabin where somebody lived in while they were building the shell of the house and then they never completed it.
So we put in all the roads, the gardens, the ponds.
That's how it is, additions on additions for everybody, right?
Exactly, nothing's finished.
On the tree!
And the tree got your garage, right?
Oh yeah, we lost it.
We had the most snow we've had since we first got there.
When River was born, the night after that, we got the same amount of snow.
So that was in 2001, you know, like six inches on the ground.
I hadn't seen that my whole life, you know.
And then we had trees come down then, but nothing like this, you know, after all the drought.
It was so wild.
You could hear them all night long.
It was like standing near the ocean, you know.
Yeah, it was.
You were never hearing something not falling, either close by or in the distance for like hours out there.
It was bizarre.
When Nat and I were moving up the block, we sat on the porch playing music and listening to just tree after tree every few seconds.
And then the next month, I think it was 180 trees we had to cut to get out of our driveway.
So were you adjacent to National Forest Land then?
Yes.
Yeah, that's why.
And this brings me to my continued soapbox of the National Forest Lands needing to be better managed for fire safety.
It's been such a huge deal for all of us.
We did a defensible space project and got a grant.
But we started it three years ago, and it's just not soon enough.
You know, I think that we all deal with trauma differently when we have fires in our community.
And it's so easy to forget, you know.
Oh, the fire's out.
Well, it's not if it's coming back.
It's when it's coming back.
And I think...
Yeah, and coming to.
And so when we come together as a community and remember these things,
and I think obviously we can all push to do things about it,
but it's not something that we've ever been able to as cannabis farmers because we're like in the cannabis closet.
And it's federal land.
So we're still dealing with something that's like, I feel like it's like kicking the hornet's nest, you know,
to try to make moves about it.
But anytime it comes up, I just think it's so important that everybody joins their fire safe council.
Most of the cannabis farmers I know are on the volunteer fire department.
And involved.
Also put the effort in on the off season to actually do their fuel reduction on their property and their perimeter.
All that stuff is critical.
And obviously before, you know, there was tribes that would actually go all year round constantly doing their work.
The indigenous culture was to maintain and steward the land.
It's labeled federal land and we can't touch it, but somebody's got to deal with this.
So it doesn't mean we ignore it.
Right, exactly. It's not just mismanagement from logging companies.
There's nature's fault.
It's a cultural anomaly to just ignore it.
It's so weird.
Well, there was a campaign in the early 20th century where they, there was like one really bad fire in California,
and then they just made the campaign where they started Smokey the Bear.
And it was like, forest fires are bad.
They're not necessarily bad.
They're only bad when they're out of control because of, you know, 80 years of forest mismanagement.
It really brought our community together in a big way this summer.
You know, our alliance has 26 members and there are a lot more farmers that we need to bring in.
But I think that we have such an opportunity because we've got the medicine that makes people actually have like new authentic thoughts.
And so I would hope to see it lead to more people doing the organization together.
You know, MendoGen, you guys are doing work like that.
You guys have subcommittees where people are like...
We have, you know, like COVID's been rough on all that.
Meeting and stuff and everybody kind of scrambling.
Like MendoGen's been kind of simmering in the background for a little bit now.
Because we're all on survival mode.
Yeah, exactly.
I'm hoping that's going to turn around.
I think so.
It's good to get back out and start connecting with people.
Make the right selections for next year.
I think it has to be purple gas.
Is that what everyone's telling you to?
Yep, I've heard that.
I mean, I've heard purple at least, you know.
We definitely have a couple of purple things in the works as well.
It's kind of a collective.
I was hoping to get it together for this year, but it just didn't happen.
I know, right?
I've got some things selected for next year.
Well, and then historically all of the lavender genetics in the Urkel is just so slow on veg.
So you have to find the right cut to cross with if you want to have that kind of lineage.
Because otherwise it's like four times slower than anything else in the bedroom.
Yeah, we're not having that problem with these ones.
They're more sativa dominant, so these things grow fast.
Oh, that's great.
And they jump in flowers.
I know, we've been talking, but I'll get it rolling.
You guys can keep chatting.
Sounds good.
While he's rolling, why don't you tell us about what you brought to the table?
Well, we had some of our personal plants still that we kept.
Because it's a real challenge right now to get samples out through our distributor.
So while we can get some, it's not something that is easy to do just in regulatory metric framework.
So we've got one jar of our cake mix and some other headies of apple fritter.
And Mendo Crumble was such a joy to grow.
This is the Mendo Crumble?
It is, yeah.
That was bred by Nate and one of his partners.
I forget the partner's name.
Mendo Mikey, I think.
I'll have to let you know later.
But we just loved it.
It's one of my favorites to smoke.
But also the cake mix is what I wanted to talk about.
So we did some growing and collaboration with Cookies for their Humble Grown initiative.
Originally they were calling it the Appalachians Project.
But I was like, no, no, no.
We need to take a few steps back.
You have to do this whole petition.
The regulations weren't cooked on Appalachians.
They're coming out January 1st is when I think you can start applying.
And so I really appreciated the opportunity to work with Cookies.
Because they gave us the freedom to pick from over 80 different strains.
Come in and look at all their genetics.
And gave us a really solid payment terms that were detailed contractually before we even started growing.
So it was a long process to work with them.
But they did marketing for us.
They're putting our flour.
It's actually available at the Cookies Dome.
Burner blessed it.
What's that?
I said, Burner blessed it.
Oh yes. I have a lot of respect for that man.
He's got a hustle like no one else.
His marketing skills are on point.
When they released the shirt with the smoky bear.
And they called the campaign Fire in the Forest.
It just became so ironic because the fires were so close to us in our forest.
And I tried to give some, I don't know, let's have some edits.
No, Burner has the final say.
I'm like, okay, that's fine.
Yes, please include our logo.
We want to work with you.
So now they carry our flour at all of the Cookies locations.
That's amazing.
And we were able to keep 60% of the flour to sell in our own brand.
And keep the genetics and have the opportunity to select what we wanted to grow next year.
We were talking about this yesterday.
That we were unsure of how the terms work.
And how growers kind of linked up and set it up.
The best.
Yeah, we want to find some feedback.
So it's really cool to see a small family farm like yourself.
Integrating well with the large, shiny.
Yeah, they can.
It doesn't have to be mutually exclusive.
Yeah, it's got to be spelled out.
We were talking about this in handshake deals.
The contract is essential.
Everyone else wants a handshake deal because it benefits them.
So a lot of small farmers don't have the means to create their own contracts.
That's another thing the alliances can do for their members.
There's a really cool project that we got turned on to through the Humboldt Grace community that they're working on.
I'm not sure if you're aware of the Legacy Project.
Yes.
That is setting up, in theory, to protect growers' genetics.
And to be able to lay out contracts and things like that without lawyers through a blockchain technology that protects each other.
It's the Ethical Data Alliance.
I was on those meetings for like a year.
And Marcus of Chroma.
Their idea of blockchain and then ownership and IP of data is really of interest to me.
Dale Hunt is on there.
I watched one of the conversations on blockchain.
Yes.
What are you talking about?
Dale Hunt and IP protection and blockchain and Humboldt Grace is now working with them.
And Ed Rosenthal is on the board.
Daniel Hendricks.
We had considered doing their pilot project.
They've got this really holographic seal that you scan like a QR code.
And then you can get promotional deals.
And a lot of it, I think, has to do with collection of data.
And customer CRM and things like that.
So I would just caution any small farmers to just really do your research when you're considering sharing your generational information that you've learned and monetizing it through a company.
There's been a lot of issues with genetic protection.
People are like, oh, we're going to store your information and we're going to keep it safe.
And it can become a debacle.
So it is important to know what you're dealing with and make sure the power stays in your hands.
And that there's farmer representation on the boards that are creating these things is really also so important.
Because then you can see that red flag if it comes up.
This brought us from the handshake deal because we were talking about these guys working with cookies.
And I know we wanted to dig into that a little more.
And most of the time there are not farmers represented on these things.
There was probably some paperwork there.
There was paperwork.
This was not a handshake deal.
It's really a great kind of...
It seems like a yin to the yang of yesterday's conversation.
Sell your dad.
You got to...
I don't know.
It's an interesting concept.
It sucks. We'll see.
It's very suspect.
As far as working with different strains, like I said earlier, I'm such a glutton for punishment.
I think we had 40 different strains that we had to really reel it in, narrow it down.
We've got about a half an acre.
And we don't have a full canopy.
We put in a lot of beds this year so we can expand our canopy.
But we weren't done until July.
So while you can do a 50 pound batch, I would not necessarily recommend it for your brand.
I think when we do our batches, we usually do 15 pounds.
Because you don't want it to sit in a jar.
You want to make sure that as soon as it's trimmed, it's going in the jar.
That's the other thing about when you're packaging your flour.
Having to work with a distributor in the past that didn't have a flow-through that got our product to market degraded it terribly.
There were so many times where I think that we would send pounds to go out and it would sit in the back of a hot van.
And then by the time it would get to the dispensary, it's not the same product.
It doesn't smell good.
It did when it left our house.
Well, they folded.
Shocker.
But it's such a poor representation when you have to work with someone like that.
Without naming names, can you tell generally what happens time and time again when you send 50 pounds to someone?
I think it sits in a black and yellow in a shipping container at the bottom of a pile.
A pound goes to LA and is on somebody's shelf and they try to sell it.
But people want the blingiest thing for the lowest price.
And so unless you're willing to lose money, then a lot of times your totes sit in a shipping container until they aren't worth anything and then they get returned.
Glorious.
I couldn't hear all of it, but if something doesn't sell, they send it back to you like 50 days later.
Not 50 days later.
Six months?
No, nine months later.
They're like, good luck selling this now.
It's not worth anything anymore. You're going to have it back.
You're going to have it back and we'll all pay you for it.
Yeah, exactly.
And in that case, you don't pay the taxes unless they required you to do it up front.
But if we package it and it passes our final quality control, that's when the taxes are incurred.
So sold or not, our product goes to our distributor and they have to remit the taxes on it, which are going up on January 1st, which is just insane.
Even if it's not sold.
So just to intake any flour right now, even 15 pounds, it's about a $6,000 overhead cost before it gets to market just for the taxes.
It's such a ridiculous structure of repeated taxation before any money comes into the system.
To be taxed to just exist.
It's so ridiculous that it's literally sucking all of the wealth, the little wealth the farmers have to do their job before they can even touch the commodification of their crops.
So it's really, it's just a backward system.
Something has to change.
And this is why we never bring you to parties, because you're such a downer.
So this is why I said, are you sure you want me to talk? Because I've got some taxation problems that are really bothering me.
And I don't think that it's going to be a positive conversation.
Well, we need to raise awareness because these legacy farms are at risk and we need to talk about it.
We need people in other emerging markets to recognize the struggle that our farmers are going through so they can prevent it through being active in their legislation and signing laws that are protecting the cultivators and giving them an opportunity to succeed in the face of corporate cultivation coming in on top of them.
When they removed the one acre cap, it was designed to flush us out.
There was no intention to keep small farmers in this business as soon as the people that lobbied to have the one acre cap removed did what they did.
And I think that the Cannabis Advisory Committee would be very helpful if there was farmer representation with a cultivation license holder.
Right now, the industry representatives are not farmers.
Therefore, I don't think that they can actually understand the small farm struggle, even if they are in contact with other people.
I think that there's just a disconnect of the challenges.
And I think so many people are selling because they're fed up and tired of it.
And it's not sustainable to have the taxation at the rate that it is right now.
And I think that there's an opportunity for us to make it different.
But I think there's a lot of big money and a lot of people that don't want to see it change because it benefits big business.
So we're going to take a commercial break from this depressing conversation.
Because our joint is ready.
So would you like to tell us about it?
Do you have high hopes for it?
Okay. I do.
So I missed the intro.
I didn't really describe it.
You got a microphone.
So yeah, this is the True Rider. It's an offspring of the Jedi named after our second son.
It's a really nice OG, really good body high.
Not terribly too overwhelming in the head.
I've been really, really enjoying this one this year. It's kind of been my go-to.
Beans and jamon?
I don't know the answer to that off the top of my head right now.
Probably some limonene.
You're welcome to take a good sniff right there.
The feedback we've been getting is it's really good for pain and that's also been my experience.
And the flavor is pretty nice.
Who would like to take the green hit of it?
Am I supposed to light this myself?
Alright, sure.
That is really nice.
It's got a nice fuel back.
So conical.
Nice spice to it underneath.
Lovely.
What I rolled is actually a little bit of the later harvest stuff which is a little bit drier than some of the early harvest.
So this is kind of two different harvests are in this.
I think that one's the cake mix and this is the crumble, right?
That's the cake mix.
This is the crumble.
I might have switched them on you when you weren't looking.
Nice.
That's fantastic.
You guys get such great structure out there.
It was so dense.
All of the strains that we got from cookies were incredibly dense.
Despite all of the oppression of the sun rays this year from being so close to the fires.
I was surprised.
I think it's important to recognize that you guys were right along the edge of the fires and still managed to pull out.
That's from all directions.
Incredible.
And this product is still top notch.
We were really lucky with the end game.
We got rain that put the fires mostly out and then we had clear skies.
It was amazing.
It was like the end of September and most of early October.
It was just really beautiful.
And then we had like 15 days of rain.
Which washed everything off.
So that end part was not awesome but at least it wasn't smoky.
And I don't think that it carried over in the flower which is wonderful.
We were all worried.
Did you have smoke damage in your flower then?
Yeah.
We evacuated our place and then we got ripped off of all of our tops where we took it to.
And so then the next harvest.
This happened to us two years in a row too.
Yeah.
It's tough out there.
That's another thing we can do though.
In Humboldt County they gave cannabis farmers agricultural permits to go into their farms.
But I think only three people signed up for it so no one understood that that's what was happening.
So the law officials don't recognize them because they're not educated that it's a thing.
They look at your pass that was issued by...
Actually they wouldn't look at ours.
And then Steve Madrone actually and Michelle Bushnell, the board of supervisors, were integral in getting us back into our farm.
He actually was on the phone with me every day while we were not being let back in.
Luckily we know the back roads we could get in but it was a lot farther.
And then as soon as they acknowledged our agricultural permits instead of looking at them and letting us in they just left.
Yeah. They lifted the blockade.
I was like what?
We got to use it one time.
It was gratifying that one time but then it was like oh.
It was like oh.
But everyone needs that. They would let the vintners back into their wineries.
Right. We saw that. I just saw the movie too.
And the movie was so good I cried. I got to see it at the Minor Theater.
And there were just so many parallels.
It's shedding a really important light on what's going on.
Thanks for letting them be all up in your space for three years.
Yeah. It was a busy three years. It's been a long three years.
The movie came out great.
It looks good. Love it.
I think it was worth it.
So what are you going to grow next year?
What am I going to grow next year?
I'm growing probably the Jedi of the True Rider, the True Barrymore, Lemon Fire OG, Lemon Fire OG Tangy which we have yet to make a name for.
And a cross from Heart Rock and me again that we're calling Door to Infinity.
What is it?
Door to Infinity.
Oh I love that.
That's the sativa. We'll do a purple and a green version of it.
I had a strain called Green Door for a long time.
It was really nice and beautiful. Super chirpy.
Really late during those same fires it was up at somebody else's house.
I didn't have any cuts at my house. They were taking care of it.
That's why you share your genetics with your friends.
Got locked out. But they got locked out of their place and couldn't go back in water.
So we lost that one.
I crossed it with his infinity.
So now I'm kind of trying to find Daniel from Heart Rock.
Yeah I saw him last night. Awesome guy.
One of those. I haven't decided on what seeds I'm cracking yet.
I know we picked up a bunch of papaya crosses yesterday.
Some papaya bomb 415. We did papaya this year and it was so good for Fresh Frozen.
We're doing Rosin with Rob. I actually met Rob through Michael in 2002.
We kind of did some tripping for him first.
He's a long time friend. Going back to Michigan days.
I actually hit him up to try and make it over here and talk Terps with us.
He's a hard one to nail down.
He's a hard one to nail down. He's chasing that next thing.
Usually in front of the rest of the guys. Bringing it to the table.
He's just a master of what he does.
Shout out to you Rob. Always Sunday at Humble.
Yeah Rob. I'm not sure what we're going to grow though.
Definitely some things for cookies. I really loved the cake mix. We'll do that again.
I loved the apple fritter. It was wonderful in our region.
But I think it might be a little market saturated next year. I'm not sure.
It's so hard to predict that stuff.
Yeah. Where's your crystal ball? What do people want?
Like I said, the purple thing. It's important for bulk.
But then when you're diversifying for a brand, I think it really is still a numbers game.
We can try to be educational and do our part to talk about Terps. It's important.
But the buyers are still going to see that number. I think that's how you do it.
Yes. Thank you. You're welcome.
Where is your farm?
So I'm not currently farming anymore. I farmed in Neyland and in the Honeydew area in Willow Creek for over a decade.
And now I've been working with Royal Gold for about 15 years.
I'm hosting the Royal Gold radio podcast.
What's that?
15 years. Wow.
Almost 15 years.
Crazy.
It's been a really long time. It's been a blessing.
It's something I was able to take what I learned and what I was passionate about from my craft and bring it to the table in a different way.
With soil building and trying to use sustainable inputs, use offshoots of other industries, waste products to create a living soil.
Turning waste into life.
It's really been a great platform to contribute in a really unique way.
I'm so thankful for those guys, for what they've done. The owners there are fantastic people and have contributed to the community so much.
It's been a really nice transition from cultivating since I was 15 to using those skills and things I've developed in a different way.
Michael had business cards when he was in high school.
Really? I did.
He was an entrepreneur from way back.
I was blessed enough to find myself at a dead show at age 15 and had my entire perspective changed.
It was really beneficial for me. It just followed this growth curve of learning about cannabis and health and environmentalism and sustainability all at the same time.
It was all through cannabis that it came to me.
Organic cannabis is better. There's organic food? Oh wait! It all came in that route. It's been a fun ride.
Now I just hobby grow. I do a lot of research and development. I work with some other really specialized soil scientists who are great people.
Just trying to identify new products, creative ways to make traditional farming practices and regenerative farming practices easier for people to incorporate at home.
Come up with products that are going to benefit the industry and be unique. That's been a really fun journey over the last couple of years.
We're stoked with the special reserve that we got. And the King's Mix because we like to have some peat in our nursery.
We use bagged soil to up-pot. So even if you're planting in your native soil, everybody's using soil in the nursery.
We try not to use bagged soil as much as possible. We recycle our soil, make a big pile, amend it, and flip it a few times from winter to spring.
We encourage that so much too. I still do use bags. Don't get me wrong. But I just try to use as little as possible.
Especially for the nursery, there's applications for it all. But that's why we build the soils out of the things we build them at Royal Gold.
So that they can be reusable, build structure, and last longer. So you don't have to add as much organic matter because it's more resilient organic matter.
I try and think of it as permaculture in a bag, but it's almost like little starter kits.
Because we're focusing on lignin-based products to help self-select the fungus so people can accelerate the processes that take a long time to build a living soil that's amazing and biodiverse.
Yeah, we've been working on some of our soil. Our oldest beds in the garden are 14 years old. They're definitely some of the most mature and terpene-rich beds on the farm.
We've been doing no-till. We have a whole bunch of different soil types on the farm.
Do you want to have this?
I think I'm good right now.
You guys get it. It's a mendo crumble. I know I'm like, I will hit it once. It's really delicious.
So we have hubiculture beds and then some inbound beds and some boxes. But the ones that have been there the longest that we've been loving up the longest and amending year after year.
We've gotten soil sample tests done a few times and amended according to instruction. But a lot of it's just a lot of intuition and love and they're performing pretty well.
I think it's so important to occasionally look at the soil tests because you're changing things. You're adding all sorts of organic matter or things to the ground.
You're just getting level one on it.
Different plants need different things.
Different amounts of leaf is falling back in. Some people are composting their leaf and bringing it back.
This cannabis is super unique in that it can basically regenerate most of the nutrients by taking all of your waste product and composting it back in.
It's retained really well which is why the ferments are so effective.
Most of what you need is just already there. It's just about unlocking it with biology.
So as long as you can keep your soil alive and healthy then it's the best thing for your plant besides your shadow.
Well if your shadow is on it you're probably giving it lots of love too.
You could be turning it back on it. You never know.
Oh you're right. Touche.
I know on those hot Willow Creek days you're trying to use the plant shadow for your protection too.
It's a symbiotic relationship.
That's good.
The Science of Regenerative Cannabis Farming Conference is at the end of January in Benbow across from the One Log.
Josh G. puts that on. He's Dutch Blooms on Instagram.
I know there's going to be some really great talks. Elaine Ingham is coming.
I'm really excited. I got to see her talk there in 2018.
She's just amazing.
I heard her twice up there.
So good right?
He also brings Suzanne Wainwright and she's amazing too.
She's hilarious. She literally put on a tinfoil hat when someone asked a stupid question.
It was hilarious.
Amazing. Those are such huge contributors to our community.
For those of you guys out there interested in this stuff, try and make a trip to Humboldt to catch some of these conferences.
Because A, you get to come to Humboldt. Not a bad perk.
But these people are coming and sharing knowledge and the conversation is elevated by people who have been...
Having all those heads in the room, just being able to talk and all the speakers.
They aren't going back to a green room afterwards.
I always love to talk to Kevin Jodry. He's such an OG. I have so much respect for him.
And they're just around. If you have questions, you can talk to them.
It was so great to talk to Suzanne. She sent me the little thing from Harry Potter.
She just really loves books, you guys. A lot.
What's the thing that she sent us? It's some Harry Potter leaf creature.
I forget. All those Harry Potter dorks.
The one that hangs out in the dude's pocket.
I forget. But she makes them and sends them to kids.
She really loves bugs.
Bugs are such a critical piece. We talk so much about the microbiology.
But we're overgeneralizing because it's those little tiny guys that you can see with the naked eyes.
If you look close, they're so important. The shredders.
The lacewings that eat the aphids.
There's bad guys, but the more good guys you have, the less likely you are to find a home.
Don't be afraid of insects. Just know what's good and what's not.
Creating an environment that brings in the ones that you want.
Russell talked with you guys. He's a member of the Cannabis Alliance.
He has Cha Science. He's always talking about how you can create such a healthy environment for the good bugs to come in.
And then you really have this balance where you don't have pest pressure.
You just need more flowers to make good habitat. Put some water out for them.
Especially in the droughts. The plants are going to draw in all of the life.
The gophers, all of the bugs. They need to drink too.
It's tough when we're in a drought to feel like you're sparing water for a whole bunch of other things.
It's really important to have all those other plants out there.
When you're established for 20 years, you can find the ones that drink less and bring them in.
We're trying to find drought-resistant, beneficial, insect-positive plants as much as possible.
We pretty much ran out of water this last year.
Then we finally hit a well right when I thought we had a week of water left.
I was so jealous. I was like, oh, look at that well. So happy for you two.
Water scarcity is a thing.
This year, because we had the place looking really nice for a number of years,
last year our pond didn't fill up. Neither of our ponds filled up all the way.
We didn't have a well. We cut back water to different areas that we need to revive again this year.
Plant up to make that habitat healthy.
It shows you how important mulching and bringing in all of those water-savvy things are.
If your soil is healthy, then your soil holds water and doesn't go hydrophobic so quickly.
There's a lot to be said for the storage of the water in the plants, in the soil, in the mulch layers
to contribute to keeping the water cycle active. It's so important.
It has to be there.
When there's a drought, you're losing all portions of the water cycle.
It's not evaporating because it's not there at the surface anymore.
It's not transpiring out of the plants because the plants are dead.
By using that water wisely to create life, we're actually storing more water
and encouraging the water cycle and fog and dew.
Cover crops are such an essential part of how we keep our soil healthy and add biodiversity.
It's a lot of extra work.
We didn't used to do that.
We were growing in the valley at 500 elevation since 2008.
The beds that were there for the longest time were just so healthy.
The soil was awesome.
The genetics that we had, we knew liked to be there and they were thriving there.
Now that we're at almost 3,000 feet, it's been six years.
It takes a long time to find the plants that like it at that level
and to just have your soil be healthy.
We haven't had a chance to put in a bunch of polyculture yet.
We're just sinking our roots.
I'm hopeful to see what it looks like after more time.
It just takes time.
You can start from scratch.
It's a labor of love.
I love hearing farmers talk to farmers about these practices and how to bring them to each other.
I had success with this. I didn't have success with that.
We were talking earlier about how LA, the market, is not collaborative like that between cultivators in a lot of sense.
Everybody's so protective of their IP and it's all very competitive.
Up here, up in Humboldt, Mendocino, the Emerald Triangle, I think it's always been about helping each other.
Yeah, together.
For sure.
The cannabis community is always so inspiring.
People started with compassion.
The 215 days, it is medicine.
Even if we can't put it on our jar, I think we all can acknowledge that it's medicine.
But it brings people together.
I think that it's so important to remember that because when we have scarcity, that scarcity mentality is so divisive.
So even if things are challenging, it's really great to come from a place of abundance if we can do what works.
It is.
And just have a collaborative, non-competitive attitude about it.
Promoting each other, promoting your neighbor's farm and their product and just talking them up.
It's helping the whole movement and everybody.
It is. And Kevin said at the Regenerative Conference too, which I just keep going back to,
you can't be a brand as a 10,000 square foot farm alone out there in the market.
You just don't have enough flour.
So I think he said, don't be an asshole, share with your neighbor, work together.
And I was like, oh, this clicks.
We can work together. We don't have to be in competition.
But there's a lot of competition out there that wants us to be more divided.
But you would share your genetics with your neighbor and it's going to work well.
And I think that's how we survive.
Just got to grow the best cannabis in our region and highlight our regions.
Right.
The hype stuff is important too, but I think it's not necessarily going to sustain you.
We can find the Pinot and the Chardonnay.
Who does the Zin best?
I think Mattol's got the floral and the fruits covered because they've got that mild climate.
Yeah, they get a lot of different terpene developments.
It's amazing.
Marine layer coming up and it doesn't come up the same distance everywhere.
It's like free foliar every day from the ocean.
I really feel like it's a cool UV filter and those terpenes develop in a different way at lower elevations.
We have the hardier gas.
I think they all play a role.
I really do.
But I think that ultraviolet light destroys things so quickly.
It shreds apart those VOCs, volatile organic compounds.
They don't stand up to sunlight well.
The plant just goes to sleep because it's protecting itself after a certain degree.
Set out your jar of terps on the table in 100 degree direct sun and watch what happens.
I do think that UV plays a big role.
Places like California, California, California, and California.
Places like Neyland.
Even high in the Neyland Hills, it's just a little different cover.
Like Honeydew, Petrolia.
Sohum just has such a gorgeous climate and Northern Mendo.
The entire coast from San Francisco Bay up has these microclimates.
You can get it anywhere if you find that right elevation distance from the coast.
The plants just thrive in...
Where are you at?
You know where Redwood Valley is?
Just north of Ukiah.
So we're in the western hills of that.
So we still get many over 100 degree days.
You're high desert.
We get more diurnal swings.
And I think that that produces a different complexity of terpenes too.
It's definitely not as delicate and fruity thriving on our level.
I think that the tangy stands up to it.
But I think that a lot of those other things just don't thrive.
I think things that are more earthy, fuely, spicy, things like that.
I think those thrive in our more harsh climate.
And among my favorites are the dirty, nasty, turpey smells.
Those love our mountain.
They really, really do.
And that kind of higher, more rugged, I really think pulls that.
And you can take Finos that are sweeter elsewhere and get a little dirtier turf profile.
Yes, it's interesting.
There's something at the Sonoma Labs that took some of my cuts.
I gave cuts out to people that were growing in Covalo, over by the coast,
and then in Potter Valley and Redwood Valley, and a whole bunch of different micro climates.
And they did free testing on it.
And we're coming up doing, they did free testing on it.
And did terpene profiles, cannabinoids, minor cannabinoids.
And we're compiling some study about it that I'm really dying to get my results on.
Because just looking at it and smelling the flower, it's so different depending on where it's grown.
It's like night and day difference.
Sometimes it's hard to recognize.
And the farmer's effects too.
There's so much that goes into it.
We've done the grow off a bunch with these guys, and it's similar.
But it's so cool to do it within your community and see it and share it.
Because then you can smoke it.
Yeah.
Well thanks for having us on here.
Thanks for having us all on.
We've got another group of humble ladies actually out here that we're going to go grab.
The ladies from DBS Soil Consulting.
Going to get Joanna and Sarah out here.
Thank you guys for coming on and sharing.
Thank you Future Cannabis Project.
Awesome.
I'm going to have to try some of your stuff here.
Yeah, please do.
Good to meet you.
We're going to take a short time out while I grab a quick couple folks from outside.
Thank you.
How are we doing on the mics?
Closer to the face would be great.
Tighter?
Yeah, tighter on all the mics would be good.
I'm doing the best I can to mix.
Sometimes the sound is really muddy and sometimes it's really nice.
And then sometimes I miss folks who talk.
Sometimes you can't bring the levels up.
If I leave all the levels up, I should probably turn my back.
We're telling this for the people.
Oh, thank you.
The tips for the crew are always appreciated.
It was very tasty, man.
I had two of them.
I had two of them.
I like the high metal stuff.
It was good talking to you.
Lindsay, I'm Steve.
Likewise.
I'm going to grab those guys from outside.
I've got to use the restroom, so give me a couple minutes.
Anyway, I want to get a couple minutes of room tone.
I don't think I can make it.
Let's talk.
Let's talk.
What's that?
Yeah, yeah.
So how are you all holding up?
So these two will be live?
Yeah, yeah, okay.
You've earned it.
Have you been smoking the weed at least?
Okay, good.
So I don't feel so bad for you.
Tom, be careful where you stutter step back there.
So were you here yesterday?
I was, yeah.
And where were you hanging out yesterday?
Mostly outside.
The thing was, when I first got here, as I would move 10 or 20 feet down the pathway,
somebody would be like, HBK, hey, want to talk?
And I'd talk and then I'd get kind of diverted in another direction and stop and talk to more people.
I never actually really got a chance to see anything yesterday.
Yeah, it was one of those days where I was, is this live?
Yeah.
Oh, okay.
Yes, it is.
So yeah, I just spent a lot of time walking around talking to people and doing my thing.
So by the way, you are Eric.
Yeah, I'm Eric from HBK.
And you have HBK.
I am, yes.
Do you want to just quickly tell people about it?
Yeah, so I'm Eric Minor from HBK Genetics.
Second generation grower.
Couldn't say farmer because my dad wasn't really a farmer.
But yeah, I've been in it forever.
I got into trying to run a business back in 96 when we helped pass Prop 215.
Kind of been in it forever.
I took a little bit of a break, but then got back in.
And yeah, I just do mostly genetics, a breeder.
And then I also have a CBD topical company, which is HBK Topicals.
And I kind of got into CBD early on, like 2010, 11, when it first started coming around.
I got involved with Ringo Lawrence from Soham, and he was turning me on to CBD at that time.
And it was like, oh yeah, this will really work out good.
So my daughter has a rare skin condition called Epidermolysis Pilosa, or the butterfly disease.
I don't know what you call it.
So yeah, I was doing topicals for a while, and now the CBD craze has dropped out.
So I'm just focusing on trying to get a nursery up and licensed and running.
And doing a lot of licensing consulting projects.
So helping people get their brands up and running and going.
Okay.
With the breeding, I mean the stuff you were just talking about,
is that kind of the direction most of your breeding goes in?
Or can you talk about what you like to explore and focus on in your breeding and why?
I tried to focus on doing CBD genetics at first, but then I realized I didn't have the scale.
I wasn't able to go to the scale and the size that I needed to be able to produce good licensed hemp stock.
I'm just kind of a micro, small scale breeder.
And the hemp thing was way bigger than what I wanted to get into.
So I just really focused back on cannabis genetics.
And I tried to develop my own few lines and stay within those lines.
When I got into it early, like 2010-11, as a licensed, or not a licensed breeder, but an actual breeding company,
there was a lot of guys doing the hyping breeding.
And I was like, you know, there's enough people doing...
Did you say the hypi breeding?
Yeah.
I just want to make sure I heard you correctly, because we were talking about that this morning.
Yeah, so you got a ton of people that will cross the hottest thing with the hottest thing,
and they're dropping it immediately. I didn't want to get into that.
I was trying to do some stabilized lines of what I liked that I thought were really good.
Were you trying those things that you were seeing that people were like, that shit's flying off the shelves?
Yeah, I try everything. I go through it.
And every now and then I'll add something in that works for me out of those.
But I'm not doing a lot of hypi breeding.
I've got my set cultivars. I've got like five lines that I've been trying to stick with.
I like older Afghani Kush lines.
So what's the Chili Verde?
Chili Verde is key lime.
Because that's kind of like your North Pole, right?
Yes and no. It didn't start out that way.
But it's key lime pie lavender.
That was actually part of a breeding collaboration project that I was doing for somebody else originally.
Somebody came to me and said, hey, we want to work with this lavender.
We don't have an indoor facility where we can bend it or really keep it true.
They're an outdoor Humboldt farm.
So they sent it down to me. I did the lavender work for them.
And then that's when I made some of the lavender crosses for myself.
That's where the chili came from.
It wasn't something that I was really focusing on as, wow, everybody needs this.
This is the best strain ever.
It kind of just floated for a little while.
And then it got picked up by some people who really recognized it for what it was.
And then it gained its popularity, won the cup, and took off from there.
And that was this cup?
That was the Emerald Cup.
2019, I believe it was.
A gentleman entered it into the personal cultivation division.
Took first place with it.
It's been pretty well received.
But there were several different cultivars that are out there.
Or several different phenos of that cultivar that are out there.
So people might see chili that's a little bit different than people are seeing chili in a different region.
Because there were three or four different clones that have been dropped.
Because I wasn't in the position to drop the clone stock when it won.
So I just put seed stock out.
Everybody popped those seeds, got that clone stock, and then put it out to the commercial market.
So there's a couple different cuts of it.
You have the Purple City Genetics cut.
You had your Dark Heart, which was a Moon Gazer cut.
There's the Clayo cut, which is the cut that won the D, or I call it the D cut, that won the cup.
And then there's another couple oddball clones that are floating around in Northern California from other nurseries.
I don't really know where those cuts came from or who they have, where they originated from.
But they are chili, it's just from seed stock that they popped.
So, yeah, the strain kind of got convoluted a little bit because of the fact that when I first dropped the clones that won the cup.
Those clones went to somebody, the Redwood Valley buyers came through.
Those clones were then basically stolen from us and then given out and sold back door to other people.
That's how it got out originally.
And the best cut that won the cut didn't actually get out.
The good stuff, we're still holding all the really good stuff.
That's crazy.
That's crazy.
So, with the chili, you've worked in the other things as well, so you've done a lot of crosses with that, right?
Yeah.
What are you exploring?
What are you trying to take from it versus from whatever you're crossing?
It depends on whether I want the flavor from the chili added into what I'm working on.
To build this up?
It depends on whether I'm looking to add flavor of the chili and the structure and the high heat tolerance and root structure that the plant has into something else.
Or whether I'm trying to add something new into the chili.
Some of the chili strains are not the highest in return when you wash them.
So, we've been trying to improve the wash ratios on the returns for that.
So, bringing in other higher hash making plants to try to improve that.
What are some examples of those crosses? What have you brought into it?
We did some like a Chem D Verde.
We did a peanut butter Verde that's been really good.
Peanut butter Verde right now is probably my favorite.
I did a collab with a buddy of mine on that and that peanut butter Verde has just been amazing.
So, the peanut butter you got, what is it?
It's a peanut butter breath.
So, you got that. That's what he brought to you?
Yeah.
There's been a few others that we've been getting into.
I did a collaboration with a farm called Unity Farms.
They're in Northern California, Trinity County Farm.
And he did a cross with ice cream cake and mac.
He was calling it Icy Mac.
It was really good. That was two years ago.
I did a Chili Verde Icy Mac cross and that's been really fantastic.
We're getting really good returns off it. Really good flavors.
Getting really good colors. There's really good bud structure to it.
And everybody's like, oh, ice cream's dead.
But honestly, once you start manipulating it a little bit,
bringing it in different directions, it opens it up.
So, I was going to ask him, should she come sit with us?
Yeah, yeah. Totally.
Hey, Tom. Tom. Tom.
Do you want to come sit with us?
And Tom as well?
Oh, but you have the two bikes now.
Well, he'll be back.
He'll be back.
Come sit. How are you?
I'm good, thanks.
So, look at that. Tom on the camera. Amazing.
Re-establishing the shot.
So, I bet Tom would love it if Sunshine rolled a joint for him.
Tom, I think, is your biggest fan.
He's your biggest fan and he weaves you into no matter what we're talking about in any conversation,
he will talk about your dry parm.
Tom Hines. Fan club.
Oh, we were talking about the bad, was that from you?
Someone gave me Georgia Pie earlier.
But I don't know if that's from the same dude.
And I totally...
Yeah, he's got that.
Here, take this and I'm going to try to make it work.
Do you have anything you can roll right now?
Yeah, I do.
Okay.
As long as we're talking about this.
You're going to have to have somebody roll it for me because I don't roll joints.
I don't roll joints either. We'll have Sunshine as our...
I always like to just have other people roll them.
I can hear you.
We actually don't... Tom, can you hear her with that mic?
You know, we've got to turn that one on.
Can you... Yeah, mic check?
Our sound engineer is on the potty right now, so Tom's filling in.
But the sound engineer killed two channels, so...
We're now... Did you hear her tap?
Check, check, check. Can you hear me? Okay, great.
Yeah, what's this?
Oh, cool.
What's that one?
It's one of the chili birding crosses that we're working on right now.
I'm not actually a farm anymore. I'm a patient with KGenetics.
I'm the one that made the chili birding.
I didn't make the signals.
You've got to hold that up.
I'm best friends with Joey.
This is the best part about the Emerald Cup.
I don't want to get our listeners, but yeah.
This is the best part about the Emerald Cup is exchanging flower.
Is this live, too? Are we live streaming this?
That smells really good. Look at that.
That's that, yeah.
That smells just like it.
Do you have your loopy?
You know, I didn't...
No loopy this year?
There's some here. I don't have it on me, but I do have this new one called Delfina that's really good.
Tom, will you smoke that today?
I will smoke that any time.
What is it?
This is a cross. What is it?
It's ice. So you know Unity Farms?
Are you familiar with Unity Farms?
Out on Whitlow?
Yeah. So two years ago he made a cross called Icy Mac.
It was ice cream cake with Mac.
I took a mail from that stock in a collaboration with him and hit it with a chili verde.
So it's iced verde.
Okay.
Just something new. We went through about 50 different seed stocks of it just to find a good vino.
I make my own crosses too.
But this is the one that I'm really excited about right here.
It's in the bottom of the bag.
Purple is Purple One.
That's the ice.
It's in the bottom of the bag.
Purple is Purple One.
Pinch that one.
What were you giving? What is Nasha using?
He wants this but I haven't been able to really produce it for him yet.
But I really want to because this actually produces, he said, really amazing hash.
Wow. It smells like it would.
Is your name Bodhi?
Yeah.
You just didn't make it when you were growing up.
No. That's a long story.
It's a long story.
We have a lot of time.
I can't even say exactly which Afghani it is but I had a really good conversation with him today.
I love running into Bodhi. He's such a beautiful soul person.
What did you guys talk about?
Mostly just how everything's going in our personal lives.
We don't really do a lot of business talk when we run into each other.
We communicate a lot on a regular basis online or when we run into each other at other places.
When we come to events like this, we try to enjoy ourselves a little bit.
So what are we rolling?
I got some chili already.
So you still got your special jar? Your special packaging?
Yeah. I actually have switched up the Loopy Fruit font so I don't have my newest jar.
I just kind of grabbed this one.
That'll be what'll be on the shell?
No, that's just for carrying around? I love the jar.
Yeah, yeah. But I put a paper insert and I put the wheat in a paper bag and I vacuum seal it with a humidity pack.
That looks like a big jar.
That's right. It is. It's a 12 ounce jar.
But how much is it?
I did just package half ounces.
You are about to say about a half ounce.
Because you know who our customers are. Very underserved customers. They're the daily smoker.
And they want quality. They want what they can find on the black market on the shelf.
And at Emerald Cut there are many of them.
That's right.
So are you finding that the retailers, they like that? We know we want that.
That'll move. That'll sell. We don't have too many of those.
It depends. There's more and more of them.
So yeah, it just depends on their inventory and what's going on.
But for a little while there, there weren't enough. But now there seem to be more.
So you moved away from 8's totally?
I never did 8's.
Oh, you never did 8's?
You're like my weed will not be presented as one lonely little nug in a jar.
I'm selling weed to myself. Just makes it easier that way.
It really does. Your decision making.
But the assumption there is that they're like you.
That your fan base is like you.
Yeah, I see.
Triangle, push, topanga.
So that's from your seed.
No, that's actually from his seed.
I think a lot of our customers, they still are buying on the...
Wait, I think we're talking over.
I think they are still buying on the...
They're still what?
I call it the self-regulated market.
But the black market, whatever.
But a lot of our customers are still purchasing on that market.
And really, I think Werner from Cookies has probably done more to get people from the black market to walk into a shop.
He's probably done more than anybody else.
I have a question for you concerning that.
Not to down anybody or anything, but lately I've heard the term that Cookies is now being considered a legacy brand.
How do you feel about that?
We're bringing the heat today with the questions.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, legacy. I mean...
I mean, I know he's reaching out. He's doing a lot of work for us.
Yeah, yeah. So the question really isn't so much about like, is he legacy?
I mean, I guess the question is, is he legacy or is he a sellout?
And I think there's some questions around that.
In terms of just, if you look at his merchandising, what he's got going on, it's like...
So that's what people don't know.
It's like, okay, is he a sellout? Is he legacy?
And so what can happen is that...
When, you know, it's like if you sell out, it's like craft beer that sells out.
They sell out to a corporation and then that corporation brands them as craft.
So like, yeah, we don't want legacy to be misrepresented, but I do...
I mean, time is kind of proving it.
People have come and gone out in the hills buying our weed and putting it in their packages, but Berner's still there.
I haven't, you know, from farms that he works with, you know, from Cookies.
I haven't, I don't know what's going on with the terms, but it seems like people are pretty happy about it.
They feel like it's working out for them.
And so, I mean, I would like to actually ask more questions and find out about that.
We could bring one of those farmers over and ask her.
Oh yeah, from Native Farms?
Aloha.
Aloha, yeah, so it's like, I think things are pretty okay, but that is a concern in terms of like...
Well, the alternative is getting burned fairly frequently, right?
I mean, he has a legacy in the sense of how much the cookie strains have been crossed with a lot of things.
His strains are generally, they're good.
He also did a, you know, once again, like the way how he used the self-regulated market and he got his strains out amongst all these growers who are like either transitioning or not, but he created buzz just among farms with his cuts.
So a lot of people with their genetics are like, I'm not going to share my cuts and blah, blah, blah, blah.
Well, he's just like sharing them, right?
And they're pretty good genetics.
And in that sense, I think it's how he's managed to get a lot of people who would normally not go into a shop from the black market to actually walk into a shop.
Thank you. I appreciate that.
I didn't mean to open that can of worms, but I've heard people this weekend mentioning that because the term's been thrown around.
The term's been thrown around this weekend as that brand being a legacy.
And I was like, well, he has a legacy, but he's not technically a legacy farmer.
He did say he was going to sell it.
And I watched a video clip was on Instagram or something.
And he's like, yeah, he's like, when I sell cookies, I was like, OK, all right.
Right. But, you know, yeah, it is.
I just I'm just concerned about all our friends that are now being involved with this on their aspect.
Hopefully, I just really hope that it works out for everybody.
Yeah. Everybody seems very happy.
It's been working out. That's great. That's great. That's really good.
Anyway, get back to your joint.
I know we want you. Do you want to roll a joint?
Yeah, I could. I could roll a joint.
His. What's my Georgia pie thing?
Oh, wait. No, I'll try this one.
That's that chili. Yeah, chili.
Well, I'm sorry. I'm really bad about not keeping my mic up.
Kevin's always like, I guess I'll use these papers.
I don't know. So any new things going on in dry farming or is it business as usual?
What's the breaking news? The dry farming?
Oh, yeah, I do have some news to share.
Who slept with who? I do have some news to share.
The salacious underside of the dry farming community.
Our gossip correspondent.
Here we go. Since we're going to. Yeah.
Well, what happened is last year, you know, I really had an issue with the excessive amount of rototilling and dry farming.
And it's been a practice that has that has been being done in our valley is quite a bit of rototilling.
And the reasons for using a rototiller is to it's not just for weed suppression, but it's also to open up the soil capillaries to pull the water up.
So like it's not the roots aren't going down to the water.
It's that the water's coming up to the roots.
So you use a rototiller to keep the soil capillaries open and it just really fluffs up the soil a lot.
So the idea is you're bringing up more water.
Who introduced that? Someone said.
I want to say it was a farmer originally from Mississippi.
Was it Bear Johnson in Chicago?
You know, I don't exactly know, but it kind of makes sense.
Open the soil capillaries, go grab the rototiller.
So and they were probably dry farming before they really understood the consequences of excessive rototilling.
So if you ask a farmer, is you doing it that way?
Yes, they are getting a hard pan.
And they're also getting a crust on the surface that they have to keep breaking up anyway.
So it's like every year they do this, they may benefit greatly in the first year, but the damage they're doing in years two, three, four, five.
I don't know how many years.
When during the cycle do you do this?
Well, you know, you till in the spring.
So what happened to me is that I was resisting tilling, rototilling.
And I tried doing a disk and the disking, you know, I used a plow to flip the soil and a disk.
And that still is, you know, quite a bit of tilling.
And then I had that moment of like, what am I, who am I?
What am I going to do?
I really like dry farming, but I'm going to have to answer to these regenerative farmers at some point.
They're going to come to me and go, man, rototilling ain't part of regenerative farming.
I was like, you better have a solution.
So I was having like a moral kind of breakdown there.
I was like, what am I going to do?
And I was like, what's more important, not using water or building soil?
Can I ask you a question?
Why did you need to change?
Was there a problem with your harvests?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So the soil, yeah, I did have some issues that year and it did contribute to lower yields.
Was the aquifer just lower than it had been previously?
I don't know exactly what happened that year.
I think it was that there's a number of things that happened anyway that happened there.
So I was like kind of wondering what to do.
I was like, I want to dry farm, but if I had to choose between building soil and not using water, I would choose to build soil.
And so I did a search.
And I did a search because I was like, yeah, but you do want to scale up.
And if you scale up, you're going to want to use your tractor and this and that.
And I'm like, all right, all right.
Yeah, I like using the tractor.
So I'm like, all right, what am I going to do?
So I looked up no-till tractor implement.
And I found a rotary spader.
It's a small one.
It fits on my tractor.
I totally dug out new ground with it last year, just tried it out, see what would happen.
And the rotary spader, it doesn't create a hard pan.
It maintains the soil aggregates and like the cohesive glue.
It doesn't pulverize the soil.
I didn't have to do any hula hoeing.
I thought I was going to have to go up there and break that crust by hand.
And it was just, it was great.
It worked really well.
It dry farmed great.
So proof, now I got proof that it works.
But that was a big deal.
So that year in September, when I was freaking out,
I ordered it and it was a pretty big purchase for me that year.
And I got like a rotary spader, I mean a flail mower,
which cuts all the grass and the cover crop into like compostable size.
And then the rotary spader, it mixes that compost in the upper four inches.
And then it does a secondary till.
And yeah, things amazing.
So will this allow you to add more?
This will keep me dry farming.
I know that it will keep me dry farming.
And if regenerative farmer gets on my case and says I'm road killing, I got it.
You said you were interested in scaling finally.
So how would that work?
Add some more room on your existing farm or get more, another property?
What would you do?
I'm kind of like between farms right now.
So I'm open.
You're open?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So that's what's new for dry farming for me is this rotary spader rocks.
Really it's called Inmance.
It's made, it's designed in the Netherlands.
Are your neighbors using it too?
No one's using it yet.
If they have a concept, they might.
They might.
Maybe you can't become a reseller or something.
No, I'm renting.
Yeah, just rent it out.
Oh, gotcha.
Oh, that's the move.
Yeah.
You can actually, my tractor and that implement is small enough.
We could go into a greenhouse and mix all the soil amendments in a greenhouse.
And it's actually got, someone could run around with that thing.
Were other people having issues with yield?
And was it like with other people around, you know, who are dry farming?
Were they also saying we have to do something because they were, because crops were suffering?
Were other people having the same problem?
No, no.
They're rototilling.
Is there something about where you're located?
I mean, you seem to have the perfect little location.
No, it's fine.
It's fine.
I just switched it up.
I got something that's much more gentle and it would probably satisfy a regenerative farmer.
But yeah.
That's incredible.
Yeah, so that and then, God, I think that's the biggest thing.
Well, that is big.
That's significant.
You changed the way you were growing things.
I didn't settle.
I stuck to my, I kept my integrity.
I did the right thing.
That's awesome.
Yeah, so that's different.
That's good.
So what else?
Well, right now I am doing one of my favorite things to do, which is product development.
Okay.
So I'm working on some blunt hash pre-rolls.
Okay.
Blunt.
It's just a thicker paper.
Oh, I love it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's going to be a really, I'm working on those now.
You know, I've been having this discussion because the pre-roll market is a pretty hot market, but it's also full of crap.
You know, and, but it's hot for a reason because it's convenient.
There's just so many reasons why people might.
I'm going to change the pre-roll game.
I'm excited.
I think that's very exciting.
She's in product development.
I'm still in.
No, I can't.
It's too early.
Oh, really?
Too early.
Pre-roll.
I'm going to change the roach game, I'll tell you that.
You're going to smoke that all the way down to the end.
Like, oh, this is the best roach.
It's going to get better when you get to the end.
Okay, so that's what I was saying.
I've been talking about this a lot.
You can't tell us how you do it right now, but you can tell us what you do.
No.
So I have a friend who owns a store in LA, and in the 215 days, his wife used to make homemade infused pre-rolls, and they would sell them for $50.
And I bought one once, and then I bought more because it was the best thing I ever bought in my life.
It got better as you smoked it.
And it would last me for three or four days.
Let's talk about the Hash wrapper.
I don't know.
Oh, they did wrap it in something special, but it was a work of art.
Hash is the wrapper instead of the...
It's all good, but what I'm saying was this was a unique creation.
And if I owned a shop, I would do a limited run of things like that because the product itself, and it was worth it.
It was worth every cent.
And what you're saying about creating something that gets better as you smoke it, she knew what she was doing.
They don't exist anymore because she doesn't make them anymore, but it's a brilliant move.
Yeah, yeah.
If you can pull it off.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Mass production. I don't know if it's a mass production play, but enough said.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. It depends, I guess.
But I'm enjoying that part.
And I have a marketing director now, Nicole Riggs, and that has just made all the difference.
It's been really good to have someone there with me just to help me execute on my ideas and help me get them done.
So it really feels good.
That's really great.
How long has that been?
That started about a year ago.
And we've been doing a lot of work together, and it took me a couple of years to actually find someone.
So we started working on the brand guide, and she asked me to deliver these things about the brand.
And I was turning them over so quickly, and she's like, who did you work with?
I'm like, man, I did this myself. I got this far, and then I've been waiting to find someone like you to finish it.
And so we were able to right away just get off and running.
We just got busy. She got enough, I had enough done with my brand.
And it's mostly finished.
It's good enough to hand it to someone.
And that's what's cool, is you can give someone a brand guide, and then you can see what they do with your brand.
You're like, oh, that's cool. Okay, I didn't know.
See what happens.
I just got my website up, and it's amazing.
I gotta go check it out.
You gotta see it on the big screen.
What's the URL?
Just sunbolt.com.
You gotta check it out on the big screen. It's great.
So what is your product development? What is your process?
You just keep creating things until you like it?
No, actually, they're pivots.
I got a problem, and I gotta figure out what to do.
That's part of it.
Do you kind of know, like, I know what I want to make.
I'm not sure how to get there, but I know what my end result, I want it to be.
Yeah, yeah. I mean, I do have a, I do like some of my own crosses.
And so that's where I have an idea.
Sometimes, or where I want something to go.
Not always. It's also a surprise.
I'm so surprised.
Well, like, um, yeah.
So, the Delfino, that is a cross of the Purple Nepal, and something I call the Rebel Moon.
And the Rebel Moon was already a good ash plant, but it was a little bit, it was a little bit too oily.
And the resin heads were getting squished and smeared.
So I crossed it with this, and it's made the resin actually better for hash production.
But I was also looking for a certain flavor profile.
Actually, the Wanderlust is the best way to really describe it.
So the Wanderlust, that is Blue Dream and Agent Orange.
And so, I had a really good Blue Dream cut at the time.
And then I was at a friend's house, and he had the Agent Orange.
And I smoked it there.
And then we got in my car, and I was driving home.
I was like, oh, isn't that interesting?
That flavor would resonate and lay right over the top of Blue Dream just perfectly.
And I was like, oh, I gotta get those seeds.
I gotta make that cross.
And then I went on a mission.
Like, find these Agent Orange seeds.
And then I got it started, and it was.
But what's interesting is that the flavors...
Did he have seeds, or because he grew it out, did you have to go find the person he got the seeds from?
I had to go find the Agent Orange.
That was Subcool, I believe.
Those were his seeds.
That was seeds that he had.
And I, yeah, I picked those up, and I got busy.
Making that cross.
And then the Delfina, I was inspired because the...
The Purple Nepal and the Rebel Moon were both...
They both had a really nice heady high, and so I was like, well, that's great.
I'll cross my two heady strains and make something even more heady.
Or still keep it within that line.
And so, yeah.
And then sometimes you just get something, and you don't really know it.
Like, I crossed this Purple Nepal with like a sativa, and then it turned out to be a Delfina.
And it turned into like, something kind of, almost like a slight putrid smell.
A little tiny bit of roadkill on there.
And I just thought it was great, but I wasn't quite expecting that.
And then I'm going to take that and cross it with something else.
Anyway, so that one is still...
That one's going to be...
The Delfina I haven't released yet in my brand, and then...
How many strains do you want?
Oh, yeah, we should smoke some of that Delfina.
How many strains that are unique to you, do you want to have in your kind of portfolio?
Well, like, so...
Part of developing strains, or in general, when you want to make a portfolio,
you want to make something for your brand.
So you want to have all these things represented.
Because you're going, you're trying to make a sale.
So you're like, alright, the Wunderlust is my citrus.
The Delfina is my hash plant.
I haven't tested it yet, but it's probably high THC.
And then, so you want something with high THC, you want some citrus,
you want something with some fuel, you want some fruit, you want some bling.
You know, you got to go, you want like these traits.
And so you either find other genetics or you make them yourself.
So I just make them myself.
So what's cool is you're breeding, but then you're also growing all that stuff by yourself.
To make your own product that represents it.
And then the hash one, I assume, your intent is growing it out,
knowing that Baron's going to, you're going to toss it over the fence to him,
and he's going to make hash out of it, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's the idea.
I just don't have enough production right now.
And, yeah, I just, I really enjoy working with him.
So does he basically just take what he can get?
Yeah, I just don't have enough production.
And then I, you know, what's cool is that the state of California
allows us with a cultivation license to do dry sift hash and essential oil.
And so I'm exploring both of those things now.
Because those are, if I can, they may not necessarily be the most efficient.
So, you know, it's just how to really make it, make it work.
But essential oil is, it's so versatile.
You can use it in everything.
So that is my, those two things I'm going to be working on.
I have like a bunch of old, like some, some bags that have been sitting around.
I'm like, all right, it's time to tumble.
I got to figure this out and see what I can do to make it, you know, make it work.
So it can be profitable.
But, so that's, that's pretty cool.
I'm excited to be venturing off into that world.
Yeah.
It's really, I, you know, it's, it's an exciting, it sounds like it's an exciting time for you.
You know, and you're, you're doing what you always wanted to do.
You know, I feel really good because like it's 2021.
It's 2021.
And there's a lot of talk about like the market crashing.
What about that?
How's that impacting you?
Zero.
It's not impacting me.
I planned for it.
So I put, I put it in a brand and I'm making, I'm doing much better because that, and I really don't even need that many pounds to actually make a pretty good living.
So yeah, I got, I got, but it was a lot of work.
Here's what, here's why this resonates really for me, because this level of discipline and smarts planning, seeing what's coming at your size to be able to impart that.
I mean, I'm sure it's easier said than done, but when you have everything against you, taxes, 280, everything to be a small business, all of that.
And that you're able to do that.
If that could be imparted to others, you know, I mean, that's not your responsibility.
I am.
I'm absolutely imparting as much as I can.
Because it's survival is key.
I am.
I have met with a few farms and I've talked to them about forming a collective to do like a neighborhood brand, just to get them into sales a lot quicker than maybe it, maybe it was for me.
Cause they could share some of those tasks and then they could all learn collectively how to do it on one brand.
And then when they do their own brand, they'll already know.
And then they got all these, you know, these channels they can piggyback off of and they can like, anyway.
So, but yeah, you know, and then just learning how do you make a product line and how do you plan in the spring for that product line and like just anyway.
And how to go and do sales and then how do you want to market yourself?
Yeah, you're making decisions, proactive decisions to be as in control of your destiny as possible.
Yeah, that's really what it comes down to.
That's really what it comes down to.
And like you just, yeah, you just, you don't want to fall into any kind of victim type thinking or, you know, you just, you really want to be positive.
So I have another question.
How is your sort of reputation, which you have developed an excellent one over the years.
Is that like helpful at this stage?
Is that a factor?
Is it a factor at all or not really because business is business or is it a factor?
Your experience, your reputation.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean, I think like there's like some things to being, you know, not just a premium brand, but an ultra premium brand.
And yeah, that is you want to, you want to have early leadership and you want to have pioneering leadership.
And so like those, those are things that I do.
But yeah, and then you want your authenticity to be at 100%.
Like I'm not actively looking for certification.
I feel that actually, you know, I don't, I know that people put a lot of work into these certification programs, but.
Like certified is what, like organic or something?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Or, or regenerative or any kind of certification program.
I actually feel that, that my self verification is actually stronger.
Sound guys on a long tea break right now.
I'll say.
So, oh, wait a second.
So we were driving up and we were passing a lot of, you know, the wineries up here.
You had a question.
Oh yeah, I love talking about wine.
Well, so I was like, it'd be cool to have one of these small, you know, family vineyard owner operators talk to like a you or John.
Yeah, that's all I learned.
Just about like, is it as hard for you as it is for us?
And I would be like, ah, like, tell me about like, just what are the, and you know, both worlds.
So like if you could play both roles.
So you have to like talk to yourself in turn.
If you can be the small vineyard owner, because you know what they're going through.
What are they going through?
Like, what's the current state of being a small, like, I see a lot of scared shitless people over here.
And as a small wine vineyard operators or operators circa end of 2021, like, is business good for craft wine makers?
Are they stressed out?
Are they, is there, are there new varietals that they'll bring?
Like, I was like, everybody, you know, is Cabernet and Pinot on top.
But, yeah, well, they have the same issue with getting representation.
So no matter how good your wine is, no matter how beautiful your farm,
Like a distributor who treats them well.
It's representation.
So it's like as a wine broker, I would represent their story.
When I would go to do my sales, either like to the wine shops, the grocery store or restaurants, I'd always talk, talk about their story.
So wine shops trust you as the broker to like, be like, hey, I got like 200 cases of this.
And it's like amazing.
Like I've tried it.
I can vouch for them.
And I got like some of that.
Well, no, no, you, you taste them.
But you're like a publicist for the wine.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And so you represent.
You're curating and hoping that the shops buy like everything that you're pitching them.
And now, actually, you just brought up a good word there.
Okay, because like, yes, that's the difference.
Which word?
Curating?
Bought the wine.
No one buys, no broker buys the weed.
It's all fronted.
And so what's the incentive to sell when you don't actually own it or buy it?
Because when we were buying that wine, you better believe we had incentive to sell it.
We didn't want to sit on it.
We had to sell it.
We were talking about this earlier.
That's a huge difference.
It's a huge difference.
How many small farmers have been burned by.
Oh my God.
Well, you know, and like we do need to have that conversation because like some of these
distributors are our friends.
And like who's responsible?
Can I ask, the other question is, why is there such a big difference right now with the prices
The distributors are paying the farms versus the money they're getting from the shops.
The price hasn't gone down to the shops that are buying it from the distro, but the money
has gone down on the farmer's side.
Why is that?
Why is that happening right now?
That should be even a bigger question.
Well, um.
Sunshine, answer for us.
You mean, why is the price.
So why did the price on the pounds to the farmer drop out down to 300 a pound, but just
clubs are still paying the same price they were eight, nine months a year ago to the
distros.
The price hasn't changed for them.
Yeah, so pretty much everything sold to the shops is not bulk pounds.
And now if you find a shop that does have a micro business license, they will pay a
higher dollar for bulk flour.
So there actually are a good option for that.
But generally speaking, they're just buying cases of packaged product.
Now, once it goes to the consumer, it hasn't changed at that level either.
They're still paying the same price they were.
And the other.
Yeah, yeah.
The other problem is who is paying for the cultivation tax and the farmers are not necessarily
paying that tax at the bulk level.
And that's part of the reason why you're getting that $300.
So it's a good thing.
It's actually kind of I'm like kind of relieved that we're not really paying that.
But what happens is that the way I understand it.
So when you when they make these bulk buys, I think probably the farmers probably doing
an R&D test to make the sale.
But the cultivation, the the COA test, which is the certification of assurance or whatever,
that test happens at the location where it's packaged.
So if you're just bulk selling to someone who's going to package it, that cultivation
tax may not have been paid.
So then what they do is they put it into packages and then through the course of selling the
packaging, they will they will pay out that cultivation tax.
Like it's kind of a little bit messy.
So yeah, so that could be a part of it.
The pricing.
And then also, it's just a lot of you know, it's just I think a lot of it's just BS.
I mean, I would say that one of the things that makes, I will say Humboldt County for
now, what makes our weed so incredibly marketable is that we have consistency from the region
that is so crazy marketable.
And so like that is being undervalued.
But you can't if you go to Salinas, I don't know for certain, but I don't think you're
going to have the same consistency across all those operations as you would coming out
of Humboldt.
Now like you and I live there, we can be critical all day.
Oh, this is where we can talk a lot of shit because we're living there and we see a lot
of stuff.
But once it leaves the county, you're like, oh, damn, you know what I mean?
Like we have consistency.
And as somebody who marketed wine, that was what made the Willamette Valley Pinot Noir
so easy to market was that the consistency across the region of the quality of the wine.
I wasn't finding that in California in our wine regions.
And so that's like actually, you know, that should raise our price, right, over time.
But right now we're just like being, oh, yeah, you know, there's this anyway, we're getting
taken advantage of.
Yeah, that's the most of the talk that I've heard in the last month or two is from the
farmers that are like, man, they're not paying me the price.
But when I go to the dispensary, they're still charging the same price they were a year ago.
It hasn't dropped there.
And they're like, where's the difference?
Why is that not being passed down to the consumer?
And it might be starting to.
And that'll actually help us.
What's happening is I'm seeing more BOGOs with eighths.
So they'll go, if you buy this eighth from this brand, you can buy a second eighth for a dollar.
And that's very recent.
But I was actually in a shop like a week ago and they were talking behind the counter and
they go, oh, yeah, we're going to do this all month.
There was a particular brand and like, yeah, this special is on all month.
And that's basically, you know, having your price.
You know, what that tells me is they have plenty of products.
And some of those deals are coming from corporate accounts.
I think that we can't compete with that.
We got lots of things going on.
It's hard to compete with that.
Well, I've been in the Central Valley quite a bit recently.
And there's a big push down there right now to get these big farms online.
And I was asking everybody, you know, how do you feel about the corporate guys here in town?
And they're building a hundred acre farm.
They just took over SK Packaging Food Company.
And they're like going crazy.
And I'm like, you know, what about these corporate guys?
And one of the people that's working on the facility is part of it.
He said, the corporate guys, the big corporate guys aren't here yet.
Wait until federal reschedulization comes.
That's when the big corporate guys show up.
He's like, we're building this to get this ready for them when this all happens.
And I was like, whoa.
Like, what's going to happen?
Like, yeah.
Well, this is what I tell my friends when they're getting a little worried about this.
I'm like, it's not about being the 1%.
It's about being smoked.
It's not about what?
It's not about being the 1%.
It's about being smoked by the 1%.
You think, like, they're going to put in this hundred acres?
You think at the end of the day they're going to be smoking their weed?
No.
They're going to be smoking my weed.
They're going to be smoking your weed.
You know what I mean?
Yep.
That's what I always tell people.
You can go to the gas station and buy a box of wine for $4.
Or you can go buy a $1,000 bottle of wine.
There's always going to be those producers from one scale to the other.
Yeah.
But, yeah, that was something that came up recently that I kind of was a high-overt for me.
Yeah.
You know, most industries have a craft component to them.
Unfortunately, in a lot of big industries, history and the way they think about it in the big mainstream is
you have to do away with that original craft, and then you build your industry, and then you build the craft component.
And I've heard that told me.
Wait, say that again?
Okay.
The original craft participants in a particular industry, it could have been the original
Kind of like, yeah, like the winemakers back in the day.
They need to go away.
The industry, the big mainstream will bethis is what I was told by big mainstream automobile marketers who were moving into cannabis.
This is a long time ago.
Say that again.
I said, well, wait a second.
They want to push out the originators.
No, they're just saying this is how it's done.
This is just how it's done.
They go, it's horrible, it's terrible, but this is how it's done.
There's a die-off.
They have to die off.
And then a sophisticated industry is built, and then there's a craft component that goes out of that.
Now, you know, I fought them on that.
You know, I'm going, there's no law, there's no rule that says that this has to happen.
But there are the big mainstream marketers, that's how they think.
That is how they think about this.
And they go, it's not personal.
Oh, okay, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So all I'm saying is, you know, in cannabis, in the flip side, I think that's easier said than done in this industry.
And all I know is if you're a small batchand I know plenty of, like, small batch growers who are in L.A. too.
And they've been doing it for a real long time.
They're a small batch, but they're in L.A., okay, and they're indoor people.
They're not up here, but they're a small batch.
They're not big people, you know, and they have the same problems surviving because they have the teeny margins.
But if they can survive, and especially up here, there's only one Humboldt.
There's only one.
Yeah, we're underestimating.
That's not a bad place to be in a competitive market either.
And if you look at, like, say, the strawberry industry, for instance, strawberries are produced at a very large scale.
You can go to the grocery store and buy Driscoll strawberries for, you know, at the grocery store.
Or when you're driving down the road, there's a small little strawberry patch on the side of the road.
They have a little pup.
You walk up, they'll take a little tray home with you.
I think, you know, cannabis is going to end up in that same realm.
That's right.
Now, I just had an interview with a CEO of a big company, an MSO called Live Well out of Colorado.
And they just were acquired, and they just did a deal.
And this guy, they've been doing it 10, 15 years, whatever, doing it, and they were a successful company.
And he was like, his position, very hardcore position was a mom and pop industry cannot exist under the yoke of a 280E.
If 280E is dealt with, mom and pop retailers, small businesses, their margins will improve.
It's not us.
It's not me, as you know, at MSO.
I'm not putting them out of business.
I'm not making it so difficult.
He's very, very hardcore about that.
Obviously, if he can deduct things, that would help his business as well.
But we were talking specifically about small businesses, you know, being able to survive, you know, a brutal, you know, marketplace.
And especially one like this, where once a legalization comes in, you better believe big players from every type of industry will be coming in.
They already are.
Uber is delivering cannabis in Canada.
Why are they doing that in preparation?
They're going to want to do it down here.
So, you know, what type of model will we...
Yeah, well, I'll tell you.
Yeah?
I'll tell you what.
I'll tell you what.
This industry, honestly, like, it wants rock stars.
It wants rock stars.
It needs them.
It needs them and it wants them.
That's what we have.
That's what we got in Humboldt.
We got a lot of pop stars out there.
There's a lot.
You know what I mean?
Like, it's not...
You know I believe in the rock star.
You know, model.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You know exactly what I'm talking about.
So it's like, in some ways, I mean, I'm pretty...
I'm honestly pretty excited for the future.
I think that's great.
I think that's important, right?
How do you feel?
Yeah, it has to be important.
It has to be the focus on keeping that same mentality
and not falling into the trap of giving up
once it does start to really get thick.
You know what I mean?
The thing about Humboldt is you guys have...
Well, I say you guys.
We really focused on getting prepared for what's coming.
There are other counties that are not on the same track.
They're not focusing on helping their small guys.
They're just taking in their tax dollars
and letting things roll.
Yeah, yes, yes.
As much as we want to complain about Humboldt, yeah.
We're still one of the most progressive counties,
if not the most progressive county.
Yeah.
We just have to tweak it a small little bit on certain things
where they've kind of held us back, you know,
being able to have more tourism, dark farms.
Yeah, it's difficult.
I mean, you know, the county is kind of...
I think one of the bigger issues is sometimes I think we run into a situation
where people in the county and places of authority
and even within state agencies,
they'll think about us as growers before they think of us as business people.
So what I've told my peers is when you go to the planning department,
you're not going in there with your plan,
not just like, you know, your site plan, all this.
I'm like, you got to go in there as a business,
as like with a business plan.
They got to see that you're serious because they might not treat...
They may not really give you the assistance, the attention that you need.
And I actually pulled a corporate...
Kind of like what a corporate, a big, big corporate person would do.
I sent an email to the director of the planning department
and I said, your actions are threatening my business.
I'm going to go under.
You know what I mean?
This is the point of the interview.
You have to do that.
I know.
You have to go in there and be like...
You have to.
You have to.
Are you still doing your K-MUD show?
I'm on K-MUD.
You're what?
But just also I will say that the first few times I went to the planning department,
I would leave there, walk out of there in tears,
and sit in my car and cry.
Everybody did.
We all did.
Was it like an out-of-body experience?
Like, I can't believe I'm doing this.
Or you were like totally centered and like...
Well, it's like, you know, I think it's like not quite the same,
but it's the idea of like signing a...
It's like signing a treaty.
We're not going to come after you if you do this and this and this.
And you're like, God damn it, I'm signing the treaty.
I'm taking the pardon.
You know what I mean?
It's like, damn it.
So, you know, it's like your freedom, right?
You're losing sight.
You're losing a freedom you've had, but then you're gaining another.
And so...
It would have been nice if they would have let everybody under,
say, 5,000 square feet be vertically integrated without any problems.
Yeah, yeah.
Direct sales at 5,000.
Because at 5,000 square feet, that's where you can grow it, sell it,
market it, and do it all yourself.
I mean, and if you could add direct sales, you'd be doing so good.
So good.
That was my main, I wish they would tweak that one big part of it, you know?
Because I know people that are 1,500, 2,500 square feet,
and they can't make it.
It's not, it's no longer financially feasible.
How do we get the state to do that?
Because this is the goal right now to either force their hand
or lead them in that direction.
It's like to go, here's the four or five steps.
If you did these things by executive order or whatever it is,
then you're going to save.
Because California, I mean, listening to you is really great, you know?
Because anyone with optimism who's exciting for the future,
that's really, really wonderful.
But, you know, not everyone has your wiles, you know,
and your business sense.
I mean, all I'm saying is that if there were like three or four things
that the governor could do that would prevent the eradication
of one of California's legacy industries,
because there's no going back after that.
There's no going back.
And so, you know, that's all I'm saying.
Yeah, well, I mean, if you look at Prohibition,
when they lost all of their small operators during Prohibition,
they ended Prohibition,
all the small producers, a lot of them got lost.
It took a hundred years to get back the small distilleries.
And so if we lose our small farmers,
it could take us a hundred years to get them back.
Like, it's kind of a big deal.
Like, we really have to have.
So, yes, the direct sales is huge,
but so is just showing farms a pathway.
Because if they do their own packaging, they do their own marketing,
they do their own brand, all that, they do their own sales,
you only need a few accounts to make a living.
You don't need like a hundred accounts.
You only need a few accounts.
Your teenager on their cell phone can take orders, right?
Your own teenager selling your weed.
Your teenager's taking the orders, right?
They're contacting your fulfillment distributor
to make sure some more cases get sent down
so you can keep this account going.
Like, you know, it's like, once you get it going,
it can be pretty simple.
What about the model of like collectively helping people,
providing them those services, just helping them with that?
Well, it depends on like, that's how you have to look.
So, when I went in, when I was like making my plan to go to market,
I made a couple of strategic moves.
One was that I really wanted a distribution center close to my farm.
Because the closer, I can literally, I can be out in the field,
get a phone call, and with under ten minutes, seven minutes,
be out in my distribution looking, doing quality control,
or like whatever the question is.
And so, being close is important.
And then I thought about distribution as services.
And so, it's like, okay, I need a processing service.
I may need a storage service.
I need a packaging service.
And so, and then I use a distributor that does my fulfillment.
All they distribute is packaged product.
They don't do bulk.
So, they drive up to my distributor in Humble,
and they pick up my case as a packaged product.
They have two warehouses, one in Oakland and one in LA,
and then they fulfill my orders.
And it works really well.
Like, it works great.
I'm really happy with both of my distributors.
I'm not complaining about anything.
I haven't, like, lost a bunch of stuff.
And that's a good question.
Like, who's responsible, you know what I mean, for those losses at distribution?
And when I started to, like, talk to farmers because they were having a difficult time navigating distribution,
I found out distributors are, both of them are losing.
They're both losing.
So, when I went into distribution, I just thought of it as services that I pay for.
And so, and I think the reason why I've kept a good relationship is because they don't do my sales.
And I knew right away.
I was like, if they don't actually buy my product, what's their incentive to sell?
I'm like, no, no, no, no, no.
You better sell your own because it's not going to work.
Like, it's just not going to work.
You can't be doing that.
So, with your deals, they buy the product from you, and then it's on them to sell it?
Well, that's how it is with the wine business, yeah.
You buy the wine, and then you've got to go sell it.
Do you have any interest in saying who your distributors are?
Yeah, I work with Hummade out of Red Crest,
out of the old Eel River Sawmill, which is kind of interesting to be in there packaging my herbs.
It's definitely a little, yeah.
And then I use NAPIS to do my fulfillment because one of the most important logistics is getting your orders filled, right?
So, as long as you have the product in package and you have that product, you want to consistently keep it on the shelf.
You don't want these gaps.
When they order, you want to tell them when that order is coming.
You don't want it to, like, so if you can consistently deliver in a timely manner with their orders,
they're going to keep selling your product.
They're going to be excited and want to keep moving it because there's more coming.
But if they're not getting it, then what's, you know what I mean?
They're not going to be so motivated to move it.
So, one of the things we've been talking about a lot the last few days is trimming product and the type of trim.
Oh, it's okay.
Is Eric over there?
Oh, yeah. Grab Eric.
So, John, who we've been here farming, he's like, you know, he's like, he has to keep, you know, just like he wants to keep the leaf.
I mean, he's like, and I'm like, oh, that's so funny because the only other person I know who is so hardcore about this is Sunshine.
And she's like, I don't even want to think about what happens to that flower when it leaves my hands.
You know, that was like, you know, that was has always been your attitude.
So, so where's that at now?
Where, you know, where has any of that changed?
Are you still just as hardcore about maintaining.
Like quality standards?
Well, yeah.
And, you know, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah. Even more so.
Even more so.
So that's the thing about the.
So, but here was the thing.
So here's why I ask.
He was he has product too.
And the distributors wouldn't take any of the flower that had any leaves on them.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, so like I, you know, I made a decision from the beginning that I was going to sell my own product.
Why?
Because I want to do things my way.
No one's going to tell me what to do.
I'm gonna do it my own way.
And that's that.
So, but you're working with distributors, but they don't fuck with you.
No, no, not at all.
I wouldn't either.
Not at all.
You know, it's like the important part about finding a distributor.
And this is what I really like about working with with homemade and the staff there, the management there.
This is really interesting.
We're doing the musical chairs.
Here you guys.
Eric, why don't you jump in here?
Good.
Oh my God.
I'm doing all right.
Get your, keep the, keep the masses happy over there.
So, so yeah, quality control.
So yeah, so like that's the biggest issue with, with finding a distributor.
So where I am right now with homemade and Red Crest is that what I really enjoy about them is that they really like working with quality standards,
which means that when I leave the room, my quality standards are still being implemented and they're excited about it.
They want to craft a product.
Do they understand what, what's going into it?
So that's, you know, you'd be surprised.
Like you need a distributor when, so yeah, when you leave.
That's what I thought might've happened.
The distributor was probably getting shit from the retailer who is getting shit from the customers who said, what are these fucking leaves doing here?
And then posting up online and then they're like, we don't ever want to see a leaf.
So, but do you still go into shops yourself?
Like, are you still really hands on?
Like with, yes, I'm, I'm hands on.
And, and I had, I had one Instagram.
So this is funny.
Someone, you know, they messaged me wondering about why I had extra leaf on the bud.
And so I was like, well, sprinkle it on your eggs.
Like use it.
You know what I mean?
Just use it for something.
Like it's not, you know, it's still weed.
Like I fucked up.
They're like, okay.
I get it.
They're like, it's weight.
It's adding weight on and it's not, you know, and it's like, and, and they do complain at the retail level.
So it's about, you know, but they have to understand why.
I mean, it's, it's like the other thing I did.
Right.
So I, I, I, I, sometimes I get a few seats in my bud.
Right.
So, so if you, you can't sell seeded weed on the market in the bulk market, they won't buy it, but I can put in my jars and I can put a disclaimer, occasional seeds done.
Yeah.
Some used to think it was a perk at one time to get a few seats, but I think it goes beyond that.
I think it goes beyond the trimming and the seeds, even when it comes to the distribution, because farms don't want to be lumped into the THC category.
And if you take a look at the Emerald cup over the years, all the bigger winners, aren't high THC.
They're high in a lot of turps, you know, they're really a good flavorful, a full spectrum type of cannabis.
And so when you get to the distribution side, I saw plenty of vans going up to humble when no temperature control, you know, these big packaging machines, trim rooms, all this stuff goes through various opening and closing.
And so if people are trying to go by turps and the farm has something really spectacular by the time it makes it to the retailers, they're going to still smell the same because a lot of jars smell like hay and it's not the farm's fault.
It's really the chain of distribution and packaging.
Yeah.
Well, that was what really, I needed a solution for that.
And I vacuum seal jars, these mason jars.
Yeah.
And no, this one's not vacuum sealed.
But it will be.
But that's what I do.
I was like, you have to have shelf stability because it's going to help your bottom line so much.
But no one was used to having, you know, like a vacuum seal.
They were really quiet.
I was like, yeah, there's shelf stability.
Like, huh, what?
I'm like, yeah, for real.
Well, there's so many different packaging components and products as far as the Mylar bags and the jars and the way that the lids work.
And so even if it's a good packaging distribution, trimming network, sometimes the packaging alone can be a little bit of a weak link in the chain because it isn't airtight.
Yeah, you really need, your packaging has got to be solid.
And then it's the logistics of like trying to keep it fresh, what you're going to like process it and package it on order.
That's nuts.
And then you're not going to be able to open it, which is a whole other thing.
You're not going to be able to get your orders in a timely manner.
I'd get stuck beating on it.
I know.
I know.
I must be a child.
I can't open my kid.
No, for sure.
But yeah, I keep it.
I mean, yeah, the packaging is a big deal.
And just so that's why.
Well, you had that other package.
You put a lot of effort into your previous packaging.
Remember, it was that had the separate compartment, the lid.
Remember?
I mean, it was like two years ago.
Hello.
No one had that packaging.
That was like the same one, right?
No, it was totally different from that.
No, it was two different colors.
Oh, dear.
It was your packaging.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yes, yes.
I have a paper insert around it.
Yeah.
I put the weed inside of a bag.
I thought it looked differently.
So it's basically the same system?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's the same approach.
The same approach.
I think they had a bunch of entries for the most innovative product last year.
And Huckleberry Hill won with the seed and the Jiffy Pot thing.
Oh, hell, yeah.
I thought that was cool.
But I also thought there was a jar of weed that was untrimmed, and it came with scissors.
And so people could take it home and trim it.
So no one wants to take it home and trim it themselves.
But a judge did take it home, and they were like, actually, the herb was super fresh when I cleaned it up.
It had a little of this leftover that it could bake or, like you said, do something in the food with.
I mean, I don't know.
From being at Oaksterdam so long, people really want to touch the plants and be part of the process sometimes.
Yeah, nice.
It is a lot about rolling a joint and getting high, but you can also make it a process if some of these things are available.
And, man, you think about it, jars of weed like yours is what we passed around.
It was never trimmed.
Like grower to grower, it's always in a jar that's not trimmed.
It's like a...
Yep, yep.
Where's the other one?
Oh, right there.
What did you say?
Can you repeat that?
It's not up for cutting.
I said it's like if a grocery store started sending people home with live chicken so they could experience the whole process.
The slaughtering with a knife.
With a knife.
Here, in a complimentary knife.
It comes with a dull knife.
It's a little off topic, but...
What's new with you, Eric?
It's been a while.
Yeah, I've just been developing my consulting business, and it's been doing really good.
You got any report from beyond the Emerald Triangle and maybe across the country?
Where have you been?
What's happening?
Yeah, I mean, I go to Florida once a month.
I go to Arizona.
I go to Vegas, and mostly all these different greenhouses that have so many bells and whistles, they're hard to get dialed in.
And so I see something different everywhere I go, and it's pretty awesome to be able to walk in and just say,
I wonder what this is going to be like.
What is your mission to improve efficiency?
I mean, I designed and sold greenhouses for 11 years, and so now people just want to ask me questions, I guess you could say,
about their grow or about efficiency.
A lot of times it's kind of a, I don't want to say rescue, but people are like,
we're doing good, but we think we could do better.
And so it's a lot of working with the growers and doing kind of like a coaching thing.
I always wanted to do the Gordon Ramsay style.
Or no, one of those shows would help turn it around.
Yeah, Gordon Ramsay would help turn it around.
Yeah, Gordon Ramsay or a John Taffer bar rescue or whatever it's kind of like.
No, on HGTV where you go in and you, you know, yeah, this is their greenhouse problem.
There's just a lot of checks and balances and things that I look at from like a checklist basically.
And if you're not following these steps at scale, then you're not doing your job in some ways.
And so a lot of checklists are basic on, you know, analyzing your nutrients, substrates,
doing leaf sample tissues, drip and drain reports every day.
These guys are on, people are on salt.
You know, it's not a lot of organic farms, you know, these big monster greenhouses.
And so there's like basics, textbook basics really that need to be looked at.
And so it's not that hard of a job to go in and say you need to do the basics.
And a lot of times the basics make a lot of big difference.
But then there's the environmentals and all the other stuff that go along with it.
And like I said, some of these greenhouses are way,
it'd be much easier to do things more traditional and much more simple.
You mentioned bells and whistles earlier, which kind of implies that these people are buying 747s.
They've never, well, the price of cannabis, yeah.
And the price of cannabis is different in other states.
So what you can do in other states you wouldn't dream of doing in California
because the price per pound doesn't prohibit you to have an air handler and a chiller
and all this stuff that really isn't made for greenhouses.
They're made for indoor rooms.
But go to other states and even in California they have them.
I don't know how they're doing it.
But other states it's a little bit more like, okay, well, let's try to work with this.
But yeah, a lot more air handlers, chillers, de-hues and things that, you know,
typically are not backed up by a lot of the companies that put them in
or sell them to these companies because they're not made for greenhouses.
So they don't have any data to back it up.
Are you like Gordon Ramsay in the episodes where he comes in and he's like,
you're putting too much into this recipe, simplify it, like four ingredients.
And you look in the greenhouse and you're like, you have every new technology
humanly possible jam-packed in this greenhouse and you don't need 90% of it.
Well, yeah, in some cases I even implement basic hoop houses
so everybody can learn the basics and what you can do with a basic hoop.
And so you'd be surprised if some of the
I've never seen one of these.
Yeah, I mean, I've got an MSO crawling tarps right now just to get the, you know, learn.
It's like Mr. Miyagi and Daniel practicing.
How simplified technology can actually put out a great product.
And it doesn't have to be something over the top.
At scale.
Yeah, well, yeah, possibly.
Otherwise it's just the fundamentals of quality cannabis.
Because the MSOs, they're all about scale.
Yeah, they're all about SOPs and things that are not necessarily adhering to the plant itself.
And so the way I look at it is I try to go in and speak on behalf of the plant, not the company.
You're the plant's advocate.
Yeah, we need to help these plants.
You're the plant's internal advocate in the greenhouse.
Yeah, and I'm not trying to change anything.
Now when they call you, they go, we have a problem.
What is their problem? Why are they
Sometimes it's the yield, sometimes it's the pest pressure.
Sometimes, like I said, it's just they've heard that I might know something and they want to give me a try
because they've been through a bunch of other consultants.
And sometimes the Future Cannabis Project podcasts have helped.
And, you know, I don't know, certain things have kind of helped verify the legitimacy of some of the work that I do.
And I've had a lot of success doing it now, and so that's helped.
If I went around and shit the bed everywhere, you probably wouldn't be talking to me right now.
That's great.
All the mistakes Eric learned on other people's greenhouses, he will now not make on yours because he
Yeah, yeah.
Knows how not to make them anymore.
And the strategies are different.
And they're all greenhouses.
Mostly greenhouses.
I do a couple indoor, but the summer strategy and the winter strategy is much different.
And I didn't realize how much heat you need in a place like Florida when most people are trying to cool things down.
And it's actually super cold at night.
In the winter times, it's pretty cold.
And so in order to meet a 20-degree temperature swing, if you can't cool things down, you've got to heat things up.
And like I said, sometimes it's just basic shit like that in order to make the plants a little bit better.
Those greenhouses in the summer must get hot.
They do, but like I said, they throw things at them that we normally wouldn't do.
And sometimes, like I said in a lot of the talks that I deal with, it's sometimes easier to cool the plants than the air to do the same thing.
I'm sorry. Without necessarily giving away names, what are you seeing in terms of the quality of flower around the country from these greenhouses?
Like what are you seeing?
From your customers.
Yeah. That's why we're not going to name names.
Well, I would say it gets better every time I've shown up.
I'll give it that.
And I'm not trying to pat myself on the back.
But like I said, if we do some of this textbook shit, stuff fixes itself right away.
But what I'm seeing is the lack of understanding drying and curing across the board.
And that goes for smokable hemp.
Like smokable hemp's worth more than cannabis in California right now if it's done right.
But most of it's goofy because they don't dry it right.
And most of the cannabis farmers were anti-hemp.
And now it could be a little bit of a pivot game to be able to play.
But everybody wanted to legalize cannabis and become a prohibitionist against hemp.
And now smokable flowers, like I said, five, six hundred a pound.
And it's not even the best.
And some of the farmers that are struggling in cannabis could actually grow super fire smokable hemp.
But everybody fucked themselves out of that because they wanted a prohibition.
And think that it's going to bring seeds.
And I'm like, well, cannabis people breed, don't they?
Aren't there male plants in cannabis?
It's like, oh, the hemp's going to ruin the world or something with their pollen.
And I'm like, it's not the case.
Everybody's trying to grow females.
And like I said, you're telling me cannabis people, I got their seeds here.
You know what I mean?
So I don't know.
It's tough out there.
And you've got to have your options, I feel like.
You can't just be stuck in one lane sometimes or love one thing and hate another.
Yeah, the plant's a plant.
You know what I mean?
We've got to show some love.
So explain again.
What's the fear?
Like, why is it going to ruin their existence?
Well, originally hemp was being called, you know, hemp, when you think of the word industrial hemp,
a lot of people think of rope and seeds and that kind of stuff.
But the industrial hemp had the loophole of, okay, we're going to grow female plants for oil.
And so the oil industry took off.
But the oil industry's kind of tanked at the same time as the smokable flowers gotten popular.
So now you can go buy smokable flower, hemp dispensaries, and even online in some cases.
And so the idea is that people want to grow good smokable hemp flower.
And so what they go by is Phytofax.
They don't go by THC and CBD reports.
They go by the terpenes because that's what's going to give you quality smokable flowers, the terps.
That's all you can get.
And so now the idea is to grow smokable flower hemp that's like OG Kush and all the strains that we love,
but have no THC, and it's actually a great market.
And so there's, you know, I consulted on a 50,000 square foot smokable hemp farm in Utah
that's pumping out big quality buds and treating it like cannabis.
So they're going to think people will smoke that instead of cigarettes.
But then why does a cannabis person care about that?
In Texas, you can't smoke flower.
They'd rather smoke hemp than ditch weed.
So it's better than brick.
And there's Delta 8 now, and so people have Delta hate because, you know,
people still are trying to get high one way or the other, and it's for medical purposes.
And there's actually legal Delta 8 being made from cannabis in Nevada that people don't know about,
but they all talk about fucking Delta 8 from hemp as some, you know, bad byproduct.
But at the end of the day, people got to get by.
And I think we've always looked for loopholes in the biz.
We've always, like, tried to find that stretch the boundaries, right?
So, like, if people are going to keep doing that, what am I going to say?
They're going to keep doing it.
Yeah. Go ahead.
Right. In a similar way, there's companies out there that, like big ones that are ancillary,
but they're, but, and I'm not going to name the names, but I've, you know, but I covered them.
And they're big.
Give us a sounds like.
No, I'm not even going to do a sounds like.
But they're now, but now they're, they're not touching the flower themselves,
but they're investing in companies that are touching it totally and even financing them.
So, I mean, I did the interview on, I got, I kept going, I kept coming back.
I got it.
So it's and they're Nasdaq traded. Right.
So, you know, there's all of that going on.
But I'm like, I had to say during the thing, I go, it's kind of brilliant because you couldn't,
if you, if, if you weren't able to do this, you wouldn't do it.
He goes, no, no, no.
We pass everything by the regulators first.
I go, you go right up to the line as close as you can, but you don't go over it.
And, but you get all the benefits seemingly.
And I'm like, I got to say, it's kind of, kind of brilliant.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. There's, yeah.
I mean, you know, feast or famine.
Yeah.
You know, and, but, but my point is, is that it's interesting because no matter where they're coming from,
they might've been an ancillary service starting their life building like big facilities up in Canada,
over here, over there, 50, a hundred of them over several years.
But then they, or they might be new with some new product, but in the ancillary market,
but they're all moving in the kind of same direction, adding on services,
kind of being full service, becoming an MSO.
Yeah.
And they might, or they might've started in this area and they're kind of all moving same direction.
Yep. For sure. Yep. I know.
So, you know.
It's interesting.
It is.
I got a, I see the sign behind you for Royal Gold.
I got to shout out Royal Gold for the best dube tubes around.
I travel with them everywhere. I got some pocket.
I didn't get any.
They have them on their table.
These things. Yeah. Those.
Oh, is that what those are?
Yeah. These are sick.
I've even gotten in the water and it's not necessarily waterproof, but.
I'm taking one.
You can accidentally fuck up for a minute and then jump out real quick and your shit's okay.
You can fit three decent dubies in there or one big ass backwards blunt.
And they're perfect for traveling.
So if you know you're going out of town, sometimes I roll like eight pre-rolls and then I'm good.
I don't have to bring anything else, but Royal Gold's dube tubes been handling biz for many, many years.
Awesome.
It's important. It's like really, it's a, it's a.
Yeah. And they don't stink.
So if you're smoking a half a joint and you put one away and you close the lid,
you're not going to go reek the hotel room up or the airplane or whatever.
Like they actually fucking are pretty basic, but they works really well for, for what they are.
Have you done, or do you want to do consulting projects in like Columbia or Hawaii?
Yeah, I've actually got two.
I'm trying to kind of play with in Hawaii right now.
I was just in Maui and went to a hemp farm.
That's trying to get a cannabis license.
And then I was contacted by a company in Oahu.
And so I've been, I've been kind of playing around with some different places and then out of the country.
I just do over the phone because of COVID I don't want to travel.
It has to be like the dog that's watching the family eat the amazing dinner and just sits there and it's like,
and then like they throw it as scrap and it's like, so appreciate it.
Feed him a joint.
He's our engineer.
Yeah, yeah.
Audio guy.
As he trips over it.
Yeah, there you go.
That's what's up.
He's happy.
Keeping everyone happy.
We see you.
We see you over there.
I've been trying to stay in the country.
I travel in the United States, but not out of it.
And so I'm just trying to do the out of the country stuff remote and in the U.S. I'll do it.
Is that a brain that I'm hearing by the way or what am I hearing?
Is that rain?
Or is it like, do you hear like, yeah, I hear that noise.
Now you said maybe they're doing a trimmer demo.
The trimmer machine.
Yeah, they're doing a temp demo or something.
Stupid trim machines.
Yeah, no kidding.
So as I'm watching hand trimming.
Yeah, this is how it's done.
Do you see a lot of trim machines in the operations you visit?
No, believe it or not, more people want to try to hand trim.
People are trying to bring somewhat level of craft to their product as possible.
And if they can't do it through one way or another, they, you know, like if they can't do it by growing, they trim it.
It's like, yeah, you know what I mean?
Like, so it just depends on, you know, some people that do it, obviously that have extraction, they have some machines and things like that.
But at the end of the day, lots of hand trimming out there.
I'm pretty surprised.
What up?
Good to see you, brother.
I was just shouting out your dube tubes.
Old school. It's great to see you, brother.
Yeah, I've been traveling with those things forever.
Man, they're a staple of the industry.
And most of the people that come and get them from us are people that have been getting them for years.
It's so funny.
I need to go re-up on some new ones.
These are my oldies.
Oh, man. Yeah, that one's first generation.
Yeah.
Yeah, okay.
I'm gonna have to update.
How you been?
I've been fantastic, man. Working hard.
You know, doing the podcast, working, you know, working on expanding Rojo Gold.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
How are things for you?
They've been good. I've been staying busy. I'm excited to be here, though.
Like, I mean, shoot, this is good. Seeing everybody again, getting back together.
I've been saying it's a family reunion.
It's been a while. Yeah, yeah, exactly. It is a family reunion.
It's been fantastic. So, were you speaking today or are you just as a judge?
No, I'm just here. I'm here actually spending money at the small farms booths buying weed.
Yes.
Yeah.
That's where I just was. I needed food and to support some farms.
Yeah, yeah. So, I checked out all the different counties and I thought that was pretty cool.
And, you know, try to spend a little money at each little farm that I can and some of the homies.
Yeah, I think that was great that they put that over there.
Absolutely. I really think it's a good way to focus the attention a little bit.
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
Like, break them apart.
Yeah, and I've never been to the Emerald Cup where you can get $20.08 from some of these same farms.
I mean, gosh, the prices are kind of down. I'm surprised. I wasn't expecting that.
Sometimes I feel like the dispensaries haven't always translated lower prices, even though the farms are getting less.
So, I guess, yeah.
Yeah, it's a shame that prices are down so low for the farmers.
But it wouldn't be so bad if there was a better transition of the actual cost of the flower to the consumer to the farmer.
Yeah, I don't know if it's a north-south thing, but I don't go to dispensaries a lot.
But when I do, it seems like they're still like $45, $50.08.
You know, there are some bargain stuff and the indoor stuff still $70, branding $79, $80 for an eighth.
I'm like, what the hell?
Yeah, it's still strange. We've been talking about that a lot this weekend, that the value is on the indoor and not the sun-grown, super high-quality, organic flower.
The funny thing was, when we did the judging for the Emerald Cup last year, it was just the online and most of the judges' meetings were not in person.
We had the first one in person to get all our samples, and they had the indoor table, they had the outdoor, sun-grown, mixed light, and so on.
And they had a lot of judges from LA that came.
And so when they said, OK, everybody go, all the judges from LA went to the indoor table, and all the judges from NorCal went over to the sun-grown tables.
But the last judges' meeting, a lot of the LA judges came around and were like, this sun-grown shit and the mixed light is unbelievable.
And so actually, it was kind of neat to see a lot of people that normally would favor indoor get really turned on by the sun-grown stuff.
And so I thought that was an epic little part of the judging journey, is getting more people turned on to the sun-grown.
Because once they tried, everybody's like, wait a minute, I was kind of... you know, the misconceptions out there are real.
Well, there's so much product that made it out into the market damaged and got mishandled through distribution, whether public, private, black market, whatever.
And so people were just given a skewed perspective.
And when they taste the real deal that's been handled properly and treated properly, you can't deny it.
There's a better terpene profile. It's a larger terpene profile.
It translates better. It's smoother.
It's, you know...
Better feeling.
Better feeling.
And I love to smoke some indoor, don't get me wrong.
Sure.
But there's no comparison.
I agree. Right on, man.
Yeah.
Yep. That's killer.
What are you rolling up?
You know?
Okay. Out of this jar?
No, it's out of...
Well, that's a...
No loopy fruit around here? Okay.
Purple bud in there.
Okay.
It's my newest cross here.
No way.
And it's great. It's really good.
Nice.
You did make this yourself? This one?
Yeah.
Damn, this one is fire.
So I know you guys have been chatting for a while, so I missed a lot of the conversation.
But this is... You're dry farmed?
Mm-hmm.
From along the Eel River?
Sunshine is... Yeah, I've been to Sunshine's farm.
And it's unbelievable the way that they can dry farm in that special little place of Humboldt County.
And it's funny because a lot of people talk about dry farming, and I'm like, you can't just go do it.
Like, you know, there's not... Unless you condition the soil and do the hugel thing.
You might be surprised.
Well, I think people see the dry farming and they don't really know what the special qualities of your area is.
And so unless you are preparing for it and, you know, building up the soil over time, it's definitely got its place.
And you guys definitely have an amazing spot over there.
Yeah, I'm curious to see. I know there's a lot of research going into, you know, what terpene profiles are developed from the same cut in different conditions.
And I'm hearing so much more about...
Yeah.
Okay, yeah. Full Sun has got way more terpenes.
And dry farmed has all these underlying terpenes that are...
Well, and all these events testing for the terpenes now is really cool.
And so, like, you know, the indoor and the cup was all dominated by limonene, but the outdoor stuff and mixed light was all beta-karyophylline.
Interesting.
Yeah, I wanted to kind of overlay some of those strains with the outdoor ones to see if anything got a different terp profile based on growing indoor or outdoor, but not that scientific yet.
So, actually, one of the people standing by to join us in a few minutes, or they just wandered off for a moment, is from Terplandia, who are doing direct cannabis individual cold processed terpenes.
Okay.
So I'm really interested to hear more about that to preserve some of the terpenes.
Yeah, yeah, we should let them in here. I'll keep my walk. I'll keep going. Thanks for having me.
Yeah, keep chatting.
I just want to stop and say hello and shit.
Yeah, yeah, it's good to see everybody.
It's a win.
It's always good to see you, Sunshine. I've always learned a lot from you over the years. Yeah, much respect.
Are you team Michael?
Yeah, thank you. I was bummed I missed more of the conversation with you guys.
Right on. Yeah, no. Cool. Good seeing you guys.
All right, I'm going to take a picture.
Were you here yesterday or now?
No, just today.
Oh, the beauties got here.
Yeah.
All right.
Take some little gold shit.
God damn.
Bye.
Y'all have a good one. Thank you.
Bye.
Bye.
Peter, it's been a fantastic day. You and I haven't crossed paths very much.
We got Humble Synchronistic Tree is about to join us. How's it been for you today?
Dude, I've just been sitting on this couch for pretty much the entire day.
I feel you.
Why don't you sit here? I'm actually going to jump out and then grab that mic.
So, we got Rick Elliott about to pop back in too, and we got Ayana from Humble Synchronistic Trees.
We just met today. I'm really excited to hear more about what you guys are going on.
I know where you're located is about the heartbeat of my favorite place on the planet.
So, tell us a little bit about what you're doing at Humble Synchronistic Trees.
Well, on Humble Synchronistic Trees, we are converting to regenerative practices.
I'm starting to work with a friend of mine who is very well schooled in that.
It's been a long road.
I have been focusing a lot on community strength and on seeing myself, how valuable I really am in this world.
I didn't know how special it was. I was just being myself.
It's been really nice to be able to value the community I come from, my neighbors, and see how much hard work they're doing.
Yeah, and it's impacting the planet. I think it's impacting the cannabis industry in a huge way.
We were just talking about how the value of sun-grown flowers is really becoming elevated.
People who have been indoor, indoor, indoor, indoor are starting to see the quality of outdoor, regeneratively farmed.
We're developing more terpenes. There's a lot of really cool things going on with the things that are coming out of Southern Humble,
Eddersburg, the Honeydew, the valley along the Petrolia River.
With all the change, it's been really hard to get a team who is willing to trust and go to regenerative.
I think it had to do with the market, how the market was.
Now I feel really, really confident because we're both really...
We met at the regenerative conference. He's been living up there for a long time.
He used to do Riverview Gardens.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, and for other reasons that I don't know, that is not continuing.
I believe the piece of land sold with the permit.
Interesting, and that happens a lot.
Yeah, so we're joining forces, and there's a lot of hope.
I like that, and that's really what this industry is based on, is hope and changing the world and dreaming,
and especially regenerative farming.
One of the things I feel like there's so much more information out there than there used to be.
The regenerative conferences are happening. People are getting together.
They're saying, hey, do you know about this? Can I help you learn?
Is there something you can teach me?
It goes so much further than just cannabis.
We've been talking a lot about it all weekend, just about the impacts being demonstrated in this small subset of agriculture
and how that's going to play out to bigger agriculture.
That's one of the bigger roles, I think, of the regenerative movement in cannabis is to advise wide-scale agriculture.
Yeah. There's so much to talk about.
I've been involved in this community for so long.
My parents were involved in saving the Sankyoan Wilderness and Headwaters and restoration.
My parents actually worked hand-in-hand with Sunshine's parents, who just got up.
Yes, okay.
I've known her since I was a little girl.
It's funny. When I saw you both sitting there, I was like, I know these women know each other.
Totally.
Yes.
My mom was a sailor and then her mother was Agnes, the one who brought the Native Americans and the fight of Red Mountain.
Peabody Cole was trying to kick them out.
She also helped us to join, I believe it was 10 tribes, to do the intertribal council.
The Sankyoan Wilderness is actually a tribal park.
I don't know the details well enough, but it's a tribal park.
Interesting. That's fascinating.
It was all obviously tribal land at one point, so the recognition and bringing back that control and influence is so important.
We're seeing a great movement in Humboldt County for that.
There's a lot of talk about renaming and re-recognizing the original peoples and the original place.
I think it's so, so necessary.
It was crazy. It was a war, definitely.
I grew up waiting for a lot of meetings, waiting for them to have time.
I had a lot of time in the forest.
I basically went into the forest and I'd write poetry and songs.
As a result of that, I actually wrote one called Yerba Buena for our movement.
Excellent.
It's about legacy and equity, coming together, sharing the wealth, win-win business, cultural richness, balance.
It's about doing things in a way that's creating what we want, rather than just being a lash in the wind.
I believe that if we create a vision, we can then reverse engineer and make all of the steps necessary to complete that vision.
My vision is, in the very near future, a sustainable economy in Northern California.
Absolutely.
With what we have.
We have that ability if we work together.
There's resources that are regenerating if we use them correctly.
It's about manifesting that larger vision.
Sustainable, not to scare people, not meaning you're not going to use gasoline.
What I'm saying is that from where we are right now, let's make this sustainable.
Let's regenerate what we have more intelligently.
Once we do that, let's see where else we can go.
It's very reasonable with tourism and cannabis and all of the other things.
If we just focus it in a more local way and we really stick with that, we're going to have a very decent economy up here.
Yeah, I completely agree.
Thriving even.
Thriving.
The community is ready to support each other in that way.
We've been working at it for years.
There was a lot of conflict in the community going back for a long, long time.
I feel like a lot of those divisions are starting to be broken.
We have recognized there is a big division between cannabis farmers and loggers and fishermen and things like that in the early days.
There was a perceived threat of each other's livelihoods.
We've gotten through these things and recognized we need to protect this place together.
I think it's really time for those concepts to manifest.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's very important for us to use our cultural richness, our cultural wealth, how unique we are, how individual and special each one of us is.
I was sitting over there at Redwood Roots and I'm just seeing how amazingly, beautifully different each one of us is.
Taking that and helping us to feed our economy, our lives, to bring well-being in general.
Yeah.
I love that.
To everyone.
It's funny.
These guys are holding up a shirt over here.
Hey, can you guys show the back of that shirt to the camera?
Because right over here.
Because it's so much about what we're talking about.
Totally.
It's farmers first and communities first.
It's really in the businesses we're creating.
You have to think about that in every aspect of your businesses and voting with your dollars, with your purchases.
To see such a strong group of women moving this movement forward is just super powerful.
This woman is an amazing DJ.
I've been dancing to her music for like 20 years.
Marjo Lac.
Fantastic.
She has a trim company.
She's amazing.
She should pop in and grab a mic.
She is from Brazil.
She's beautiful.
That's so awesome.
Beautiful high vibes.
I'm a musician too, so I appreciate this a lot.
Fantastic.
And her husband's an amazing musician too.
I was hearing this.
That's amazing.
An amazing musician.
Thanks for joining us.
Tell us a little bit about what you're doing.
We were just talking about community and putting each other first and supporting each other in the community.
And then I saw that shirt being held up and I was like, ah, it's transition time.
This is perfect.
Well, thank you so much for the opportunity.
I'm Marjo Lac.
I own Organoblitz Farms in Sunder, Humboldt with my husband.
It's a family farm.
And we just developed Humboldt Trim Company.
It's a processing, distribution, packaging.
We do a lot of pre-rolls, transportation.
We got licensed a little bit over a year ago.
We're located in Eureka, California, downtown, right in the heart of 101, Humboldt County.
Trying to provide a good service for our community, for our friends, and just really community-oriented.
We're really, really connected with the music community out here, trying to support our local DJs and bands and bringing a lot of music.
I do have a music production company too called Fractal Productions.
So we do a lot of music concerts and shows and parties.
Excellent. I've seen your name out there on productions. That's great.
Thank you.
This is Amber. She's our director too.
She's really pleased to work with amazing women in the industry.
Yes. I'm the distribution director at Humboldt Trim Company.
We are a processing, packaging, and distribution company in Eureka.
That's pretty much just what we're doing.
We're able to process and then put it in a package and then distribute.
We just see that vision of helping local farms branch out into branding if they want, or co-packaging.
We also do bulk and we can send that off too.
So, yeah, that's what we're focused on.
That's great. It allows the farmers to focus on the farm because that's been historically one of the biggest distractions and biggest challenges for cultivators in Humboldt.
Dealing with the trimmers and getting everybody up there and cleaning it and handling it properly without it becoming a debacle.
It's really a tough thing to get thousands of pounds processed and handled or even hundreds of pounds.
On small family farms, when you got a couple and a few kids and six or eight employees, that's just a mountain to climb.
That takes you away from all the other work, right?
Of planting the cover crop, of cleaning up the last.
Yeah, what I think really sets us apart, Humboldt Trim Company, is just the fact that we've got the farm, we've got the processing, we've got the packaging retail, we have the bulk distribution.
So, it really is. We know all of these pain points or all of these sticky points.
We've worked through these things. So, not only do we offer a service, but we also just offer that consultation and somebody just helping you saying,
Hey, I've done this before. This is what's worked for me. This is what hasn't worked for me.
Just having those conversations and being able to help one another in that way.
That's fantastic. And you're seeing that in the product. So, you're seeing, Hey, I noticed this issue. Maybe we can help with this.
Yeah, I think one of the biggest issues in the industry is a lot of people think one formula works for everybody and one product works for everybody.
And that's not really true.
Not at all.
One way we try to work is like, Okay, where is your farm?
We know that that area, that watershed might grow much better this strain than the other strain.
And there are so many variables in the industry and in Humboldt County and in our community that we try to identify those little things so we can work with our clients
and really bring their potential to the most.
Bring that up in a way that it's going to be supportive. They can focus on what they're doing.
I feel for myself and a farmer, business owner, a mom, wife and all of these things.
The hardest thing is that I face every day is that we have to do everything.
We have a water plant. We have to leave the plant. We have to do sales. We have to do transportation.
We have to be the CFO, the CEO, the every old you can think about.
Yeah, I'm here. This hat, that hat, you know.
Yeah, people are like, Do you have a job? And you're like, No, I have 30.
Maybe five.
So on that note of, you know, different things working for different people in different places, like how, how close are you guys in location?
And what are the differences in genetics between your family farm and your family farm?
I'm in Ettersburg in the Matogany Creek Valley.
And where is your farm located?
I'm in Salmon Creek.
Honestly, as the cruel spice, it's like we're just the other side of the mountain.
Yes.
We can yell at each other.
It's almost the same neighborhood.
Right.
But it's not. It's really far away because there's no road to get there.
Yeah, it's like a two hour plus drive to wrap around.
What are the strains that you like?
Well, we have been doing a little bit of the popular stuff this year.
I'm not really a breeder.
Right.
But I do like I really like supporting local strains.
Honestly, I'm not sure what what to do in the market.
I have been focusing, honestly, to tell you the truth on I think I'm going to start writing songs about the history of what's happening and doing like high vibes stuff.
Like, it seems like that might be good to look in another direction.
Well, it's interesting because the industry went so hard to purple this year.
Right.
It's like if it's not purple, people want nothing to do with it, where two years ago it was like, yeah, perps.
Yeah.
I've always liked purple.
My favorite is always been fruit also.
Right. But it's like you can't predict the mass market.
So what strains are you growing over in Salmon Creek?
What's working over there?
Because you're a little drier.
Right. You got one ridge between you.
I'm doing fatso, OG and gelato.
OK.
Turned out nice. Got some color.
And the fatso worked well for you?
Yeah, it worked. Yeah, it worked nice. It was super dense.
It really, really, it turned out really good.
That's awesome.
The ice cream cake was probably the best. It wasn't very much of it, but.
I was funny. I talked to some people about fatso further south and further inland, and they were saying that they didn't have the best luck compared to some of their other genetics.
So, and again, it's like it's where you are with what fits.
Yeah.
For us in our farm, we believe in the old school like cats.
We have a couple really old cats of green crack and blue dream that we kept like in our farm for over 20 years now.
And we're big fan. They produce great.
We like we have learned like our farm does not really thrive with a lot of the cake stuff because it's really sunny and really, really hot.
So for me to grow like gelato and ice cream cakes, what we do and we do well, but it's a lot of work.
We got to put shade cloths and like really try to protect those buds to bring that yield that we need to survive.
But like those two strains, green crack and we have a cat of OG to that.
We really like and I love that.
Latching into what's tried and true.
I mean, Blue Dream has been a staple in Humboldt for so long and it's gone in waves of popularity.
But like everybody likes to smoke Blue Dream every now and again, whether they want to admit it or not.
Yeah, I think it's still like one of the top four strains that are sold in California.
You know, there are a few cats. I'm really like I stand behind the cat we have.
We tested really good, really high and super silver and beautiful.
No, it's amazing.
Yeah, we had good luck with Forbidden Mints this year.
We also did some Blue Dream.
So it's just it's been really hard because we're coming from like some of us like she's been in the white market for a lot longer.
But like some of us I've been I had to kind of like hold on to the side of the boat and like so my way through the licensing.
And I was lucky to even have a grower, honestly, for the last five years.
I swear I listened myself with good jokes and high vibes.
Yeah. So like now we got a good team now and it be getting into some really good genetics.
I'll probably use some of my community's dank, awesome prize winning genetics or something.
Yeah. And there's so much together. Really nice menu.
Yeah, there's so much out there. So but it's like you guys are what a region a half apart or something.
So it's yeah, it's interesting once you guys like kind of go down the road a little more.
I'm interested to see if the cakes and cookies do better because you just got a little more water vapor in the air because you're the first ridge.
Eddersburg, right. It's that first ridge up from the ocean.
Yeah, right behind. And we're right above the fog line. Right.
So I get good sun. I think you're hitting the nail on the head there.
I mean, yeah, farmers, it's crucial that they look at these different strains.
We can't just keep following market trends. Sure.
We need to keep our eye on them. But we also need to look at our ecosystem and see, you know, another thing, you know, it kind of falls on to our nurseries.
You know, we don't have that many nurseries for how many farmers we have in this area.
And, you know, we can't all grow the same strains.
So therefore, diversifying and seeing a little bit more consultation, maybe in that area with farmers as to, you know, we've tried this.
We've gotten feedback from the strain from all these different places.
And we're finding that it really grows best in like this elevation. Right.
In this area and sort of trying to push it because, you know, the Emerald Triangle is pretty big.
We can't all grow ice cream cake when you come to my distro and I have 10 pounds of ice cream cake.
The top three are going to sell and the other seven are not going to be looked at.
And when my buyer comes next time, they don't want to look at those seven again.
No, no. One shot with that buyer.
So no more competition of like so many, you know, like we need to diversify.
We need to pay attention to our regions and really, you know, become the region that is sought after for that.
So it's like this region grows the best blue dream.
Sure, I can get blue dream and Salinas, you know, for maybe cheap or whatever.
But that region, have you tried theirs? You know, it's like just like wine. Right.
It's going to take on that special.
So I think that, you know, like one thing is Humboldt County that we can do in supporting each other is really sort of diving into the information about this kind of trading information just as like you're doing here, you know, and helping and supporting each other in that.
So we can diversify a little bit because, man, through the distro, we don't see enough of variety of strains.
We see a lot of the same strains, which is shocking because we have so many amazing breeders up there and there's so many great genetics, you know,
coming out of, you know, the Eel River Valley. There's some great stuff that, you know, Humboldt Seed Company, Humboldt Seed Organization.
They both have great genetics. There's so many people out there in Humboldt with world class genetics.
If we can, you know, work with like I was talking with Daniel at Hendrix Nursery earlier and they've got a great curated collection.
But are they maybe talking to some of the other nurseries and like, hey, what feedback are you getting on these genetics for regions?
One of the things we talk a lot with our farmers and clients is like find something that works for your farm.
Yes.
A strain that really produce the yield that you need because it's all about the volume now to survive in a way.
Of course, the quality needs to be there, but you still need to produce as much as possible of that.
And find something that works good for your farm and get really good at that.
You know, really excel your technique on growing that strain and there will be a way if it's quality, if it's the right thing and if it's grown right.
You know, there's always an outlet. Good weed, it's good weed. It will sell. It doesn't need to be ice cream cake all the time.
Or, you know, there are so many. I feel like something becomes like really popular and then everybody, oh, let's just go to that.
And then next year, oh, no, let's go this way. And it's just everybody's just going in every direction where you can like develop your own path and your own strain and find the market for that.
There are a lot of brands in the whole industry, in the whole state that love Blue Dream and Green Crack, you know, horrible name, but like we have clients in line waiting for us to harvest our, you know.
And the extract out of Green Crack is fantastic. Yeah, it really is. It's herpes. It stands up. Absolutely.
Yeah. And I think that you really find that with some genetics when you finally get them to the farm, you're like, this one's home.
You can really separate it out and recognize like when you bring that plant home, that's meant to click on your farm. It just does it.
You're like, wow, this one took on a certain vigor, a certain like aura of its own.
There's a lot of fear around it, you know, and so people are just feeling like they're pushed into these situations and they're trying to project what the market is.
And I really feel like if you can grow the best quality product, that's what it's really about, you know?
Yeah, because I really see it in the market. People are like, I sold all my cakes and everybody's like, shit, I didn't have any cakes and I'm sitting on my weed.
I guess I need to grow cakes. But then you have 15 different cakes that nobody wants to look at because they only took the top three.
And it's so generalized. You know, when your buddy comes to you and says, I got $800 for my pound, it means nothing.
You know, it's not relative. And it's not just the strain that they grew. Like, let me see, what was the density of the bud? What was the nose? What was the trim job?
It really is about the quality of that. So we exchange information, you know, but we don't exchange details really, you know?
And so a lot of times when people talk to me about price or about these different things, you know, it's a blanket statement.
It's too generalized until we get into the specifics of why you were able to sell it.
Maybe they grew a smaller crop and they just grew it so well. Maybe they had that prime cut. Maybe their farm is like made for that strain and it all worked out for them, you know?
But those are the things we're not talking about.
There's a large amount of chance involved. Yeah. But then you do have farms that are able to just tap into their niche too.
And it's about the distribution network. They're like, I've got a genetic not a lot of people have. I know the extracts going to sell.
I've got a chain to get it out there. And, you know, we see like Boonee Farms out of Trinity County.
They're killing it up there and they've got this fantastic mimosa and most of it goes to live resin.
It's great product and they just slay it. And he's like, man, I'm in and out.
I've noticed that the quality has a lot to do with the genetics. Of course.
But if you start with the right genetics, then honestly, I've seen the best quality come out of regenerative farming by far and outdoor sun grown.
Yeah. And more and more of the data is proving it.
In old days, people would buy our weed and sell it as indoor. Like seriously, outdoor, but.
Right now with the price of weed, this practice is really going to save small farmers like us, you know, to just really be able to save every single penny.
Yeah. You know, all the nutrients and everything that you need to keep your crop being really high quality.
I think those are essential key parts for figuring this part out.
Yeah. And I've been saying it all day. It's sustainable, sustainable Sunday for me.
So, you know, maybe over harping on it for everybody at home. But yeah.
But you're also capturing carbon. You're actually like doing something more than just growing the best cannabis.
Absolutely. There's function that is teaching us all how to do a better job of all agriculture and just treating ourselves and our locality.
I think like that's a big part of like humble farmers, too. I think we have that passion.
We have that connection to earth that it's not going to be found a lot of like the big corps.
I probably hope it doesn't, because I feel like this is my hope on saving like us from the industry.
You know, the future of working together and really having that passion, that connection with the earth and really devoted to the plant, growing that medicine.
I think like cannabis industry became this thing and a lot of people in many, many, many, many big farmers, they lost that.
And, you know, I feel like educating the public and linking that back on our practice daily.
It's a big part of, you know, getting together and save this little niche that we have of humble.
Working together is key. And finding out how we can support each other.
Yeah. Yeah. And like recognizing the elders and the contributions to the community in Humboldt County that made it what it is for somebody like me who came there 20 years ago.
Your family, your parents, your grandparents, Sunshine's parents, grandparents.
Those are the people that created and preserved the community the way it was the back to the land movement.
Like everybody was there to elevate that community and make it a paradise and keep it a paradise.
So like we're coming in as cannabis farmers or if people are from out of the area, it's important to let that culture rub off on whatever you're bringing from out of the area.
And thankfully for people like me, I moved to Humboldt and saw a whole new world and learned so much.
So now we need to take that out to the people.
Yeah. Yeah. Like I see the whole regenerative farming thing as a regenerative lifestyle that is more involved in having more come and go of the energy.
It's involved in making circles out of the economy, circles out of things, not just straight lines where it goes off from your bank to the who knows where.
It's about reconnecting everyone and about supporting your neighbor.
That's why my choice of an article when I wrote one was a mini history of cannabis in southern Humboldt, because historically in southern Humboldt, we have used cannabis to get our projects done.
Take care, Brandon. Thanks for everything.
And to regenerate the energy.
Yeah, via through K-Mut or through any of the organizations.
And that way we've actually kept our community very strong.
And as a result, I think there's actually been quite an interesting influence, even like in the festival culture, like maybe in the whole country.
I haven't really studied it, but I've seen such a beautiful thing come out of here.
Yeah, I've seen that.
Regenerative lifestyle, I think is the way to go.
It's the best place in the world, man.
As a kid in Michigan and like traveling the country, like, yeah, there's like this aura to Humboldt and like people didn't understand why.
And like, I mean, it takes decades to like really tap in and learn it even once you're there.
But it's, you know, we have to give thanks to that place for allowing it to spread.
Maybe it's time to share that with the world.
Completely agree.
Definitely in a little bubble.
A big bubble, bigger bubble now, I guess.
You know, an amazing bubble.
It's the best place.
We maybe overstated it, but I don't know if you could overstate it.
It's the best place.
No, definitely not.
Yeah.
So Future Cannabis Project has been doing a great job.
They've given us this platform to work with them, Royal Grown Radio.
And, you know, their listeners at home are such a great community of cannabis connoisseurs.
They're so interested in what people are bringing with the terpenes and just showing off their genetics.
You know, we appreciate all the contributions that you guys are making.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
We follow you guys on Instagram and these guys doing a great job.
We really did that kind of platform, putting our practice, our companies, ourselves out there.
And so thank you for, you know, keeping up with it.
You guys are doing a great job.
Thank you for the opportunity for being here too.
Thank you.
I appreciate it.
All we can do is try and rise together.
Hell yeah.
Yeah.
Thank you.
So I think we're going to try and grab Peter back here in a minute.
We've got some more folks standing around.
Thank you so much.
Thank you all so much for joining us.
What a lovely group of ladies.
Thanks for sharing some time with us.
Humble synchronicities.
Yes.
Just lay it down anywhere.
Thank you.
...is also, it doesn't go to seed and it's super nutritious.
Very nutritious.
Okay.
So yeah, we were talking about...
...versus wild confit, which one of the downsides is that it seeds out and that's a little dangerous
because it's invasive.
Invasive.
Okay.
I've never grown it, but that seems to be the consensus.
You want to grow a sterile version, a sterile variety.
There's a couple of varieties out there.
I think that there's an actual group of people that are looking for the rest of the different
balking varieties to pop up.
Oh wait, hold on one second.
While you guys sat down, the mics were all cut, so I just turned them up.
Oh.
So no one heard us?
Yeah, no one heard you.
Restart.
Until when?
As soon as you sat down.
Yeah, so restart, do the intro.
Okay.
So take two.
Topic is...well, the starting topic is comfrey.
And when we first started talking, we were talking about balking 4.
You said balking 4, and I was like, balking 14.
You were like, no, balking 4, which I didn't know is also another kind of...fits the same criteria.
But it's basically that they don't go to seed, and normal balking isn't invasive.
And you have a product that is called?
It's a fermented comfrey product.
Our brand's Casual Fields.
We grow it regeneratively.
Do you own a friend?
Yeah, my friend Michael.
We run the Casual Fields Ferment Co. on Instagram.
Casual Fields Ferment, fantastic.
Yeah, I'm a huge fan of the show.
We listened...we're kind of bummed during Thanksgiving, we had no new uploads.
But, you know, you got us on the trip.
I thought we had something, you mean on that day?
Yeah, just that week was a little...you know, everyone was on break.
I think so, I'm always on it.
It's the first thing that pops up when I open my YouTube is FCP, Future Cannabis Project.
I click on it and see if there's anything new.
I listen to every episode.
That's awesome.
And I listen to a lot of the older episodes because...and over and over again.
You know, when I'm working in the greenhouse, we just built a light-depth greenhouse.
And where is this?
In Hayward.
It's in our backyard.
We grow cannabis in that, but it's...we have two 16-foot living beds.
We started the project a little over a year ago.
And we're just finishing the greenhouse now.
And this is the same property where you're growing all the comfrey?
Yeah, everything just on the other side of the fence is all comfrey.
We have over 200 plants in the ground, comfrey plants.
And so can you talk about the process to get to end product?
For making the comfrey?
Yeah.
There's a couple of secrets as far as what we have.
You know, percentages of what materials we use.
But we use ocean minerals and terrestrial minerals.
And lactic acid bacteria ferments, a long process ferment.
It's a cold process.
Were we talking about this on email at one point?
Possibly.
Or like talking with your partner?
Maybe with Michael, yeah.
He reads all of our emails.
I'm like, this sounds so familiar.
You know, when the plant is involved, things can get a little crazy.
Or I'm super high.
All of the above.
But yeah, you know, like I was telling you earlier,
I started growing cannabis organically in like 2009 in San Diego.
And this little bubble down there, this is a fence.
We're talking about the weather in NorCal versus...
Well, not just that.
The climate as far as the different people, it seemed a lot clickier down there.
And if you didn't have your...
You weren't in the right click, it was really hard to progress.
And all my contemporaries were growing in salt.
And they didn't seem to care about like organic cultivation
or any of the product that came from it.
I tried a little bit of salt growing.
It wasn't the product I was trying to smoke.
So I went back to growing organically.
Then we started growing for...
We built a little light company in 2014.
LEDs were coming on the scene.
We needed to make sure our plants were happy.
And I think I heard Clackamas Coot talking about Comfrey years ago.
And went down that rabbit hole and never looked back.
Yeah, it's funny.
When people talk about stuff, I'll be like,
I'm buying whatever the random thing is.
If it's a vegetable or something.
I like exploring stuff.
So tell me a little bit about the product.
It's a Comfrey ferment.
Is it like a complete fertilizer?
Is it more of an enzymatic or a supplement?
What's the purpose or application methodology for the product?
The Royal Garden in the UK
Fertigates their whole property with Comfrey exclusively.
You can.
What we like about it is how it helps plants deal with stress.
What I've found is growing...
If you're in pots, sometimes your environment's not dialed in.
The plant can either take up too much or you can water it too much.
And it stops taking anything up.
When you foliar feed this product,
it breaks...
Let's start with what the plant is first.
The plant sends roots really deep into the soil,
sequestering those minerals.
Puts it into the leaves.
The particular plant we grow, we grow because it's high in protein.
It's got one of the highest protein percentages in leaf tissue.
What that translates to is amino acids when it breaks down biologically.
During that biological fermentation process,
it takes these minerals, the ocean minerals and the terrestrial minerals,
and it starts chelating these things.
We don't know how that works.
We just know that biology makes it happen.
When you apply it to your plant,
the smallest amino acid is glycine.
It's low in molecular weight.
That molecule is so small, the thing that it's attached to
brings that element into the plant with it.
If you've got all these trace elements chelated in that form,
your plant gets it and it's immediately available.
Hey buddy, he's...
The bass is kicking up out there.
He's hearing the music from outside too.
He's over it. He's been here all day yesterday too.
That's really fascinating.
We've been talking so much about amino acids and carbon chains
and breaking things down through fermentation and decomposition
and then the uptake through the plant to remanufacture organic matter.
That's the beauty.
That's the beauty.
In foliar feeding your plants, for example,
what that does is it makes your plants more efficient with its energy.
It's no longer using its own energy, its own photosynthetic energy,
to manufacture these secondary metabolites.
It's already done by our barrels in the microbiology.
It's already there.
Your plants take it and they start...
Within half an hour, 45 minutes, you might see a difference
with the right environment and intensity.
Yeah, because it reduces stress
and because it's easier for the plant to do it.
It's not working so hard to make these things happen.
It has to make them happen for vigorous growth,
but when you're pre-fermenting and creating those available nutrients
through the biological processes,
you can just immediately get the best out of it.
You can benefit from those products.
If anybody is familiar with Dr. Liebig,
he created this picture of a barrel.
The slots of the barrel were at different heights
and the barrel is supposed to hold water.
It's called the law of the minimum.
Absolutely.
If the barrel is not firing on all cylinders,
it's not going to be able to hold enough water.
You can only fill it as high as the lowest stave.
Exactly.
Whatever your least active function, whatever you're missing,
you can only perform up to that level of your weakest link, essentially.
Yeah, so the metabolism isn't optimized if it's got the lowest...
Hey, what are you doing?
If it's missing, if it's low in one of the minerals.
When we use it in the soil, the amino acids do something else.
It opens up the calcium ion channels in the soil
and calcium is responsible for helping everything else.
The gatekeeper of the cell, I always say.
Yeah.
I was using this as a secret for the longest time
and realized that some of the amino acids
that some of my friends that I gave them bought,
I didn't know it was going to be a product.
I didn't know it was going to be...
When I first started, it was just in a five-gallon bucket in front of my shop
and my neighbors didn't like the way it...
It smells nasty.
There's a nickname, they call it Zewas.
And it smells just like the name.
But it helps everything grow better.
We've experienced peppers later in the season.
We're still harvesting late into the cold weather
from these poblanos last season.
Yeah, I was going to ask, what else do you like to grow?
Peppers, anything food, mostly peppers.
Do you grow scotch bonnets?
Not yet. We do the superhots.
We just acquired some seeds for the striped sugar rush peaches.
So we have sugar rush peaches.
They're like a medium spicy yellow pepper
and then there's this variety that's got these beautiful stripes,
dark orange stripes.
Oh, he doesn't get on the couch.
He's not...
I thought you'd be so happy up on the couch.
I think he's cold.
He might be. He's tired. He's had a long day.
He's been wet.
Are your ears cold?
He's a happy buddy.
But yeah, with a lot of growers...
We're keeping each other warm.
If you don't have your plants happy, especially in tents,
and if you don't have your environment dialed in,
and having every tool in your shed as part of an arsenal,
something that's going to help mitigate stress
will help you get maybe more yield or extend your season.
Yeah, I mean, reducing the stresses where you can
allows it to face other stresses with more strength.
Yeah.
Let's say stressful plants are more potent,
but you can always stress them with light.
Yeah, right?
Indoor.
A little extra wind maybe, strengthen those stalks.
As someone who is making lights,
what were you noticing about light?
Were you doing any testing and exploration of light?
Oh, yeah. That's what my grow room was in San Diego.
It was a shop, and in the front we worked on carbon fiber parts.
We made composite parts for race cars.
In the back we had a small room where we were testing lights.
We had a small, I think it was like a 10 by 12,
it's like a bedroom size indoor thing.
Early on we had everything made overseas,
and then we started making stuff here.
But then the industry started progressing,
and you needed more and more money.
I don't know. I didn't feel like...
I mean, I have products.
It didn't seem natural enough to want to go and find
and fight these larger...
go in a competition with these larger facilities.
I just wanted to grow plants.
So you were like, do I really want to be a lighting company
and just have to fight business to business?
Well, it was like that.
In the beginning, it was like, oh, LEDs aren't...
and they weren't.
But we were just at the cusp.
2014, 2015, people were still working with the blurple lights,
and we started adopting the white light technology
and learning about how there were other frequencies,
light frequencies that plants absorb.
Like for example, green light.
Yeah.
Plants utilize green light more than you know.
More than what the internet would say.
Far red, infrared light penetrates deeper into the tissue
and through the canopy.
Yeah, 700 and beyond.
We like 730 and LEDs.
Yeah, because PAR, photosynthetic active spectrum,
the radiation spectrum, I think from 400 to 700,
but they've changed that now.
They call it B-PAR, which is a biologically active spectrum.
They've extended into the UV and a little bit into the far red.
Yeah, I don't know how any of the lighting companies
are making money right now because there are so many of them.
You know, I said that years ago, and here they are.
They just got bigger.
It's been crazy the last couple of years.
There are new ones popping up every day being like,
try our YouTube influencer, try our lights.
Right, and so many of them are...
The game's changing so fast still,
that people are having more and more success
with accelerated technology.
So, you know, what was the hot thing two years ago
is already becoming obsolete.
And so it's really interesting to see the kind of rise and fall
of some of these technologies in LED lighting.
As a consumer of them, you're like, love the work, people.
Appreciate it.
Even with production lights, right?
Yeah.
Having to lug around super fucking heavy lights sucks.
Yeah, the lights for this are just two little LED panels
that are great.
I mean, we didn't do shit with them,
but we could do a much better job.
The efficiencies have made leaps and bounds,
and also understanding a little bit more about the plant.
We still don't know what's going on with this plant.
I mean, we only know so much,
and I think there's still a lot that nature has to teach us.
That's true.
I completely agree.
With the Comfrey, you know,
what we found out is that they're able to take on a little bit more light.
That was the thing.
We were growing high intensity,
and people were saying, oh, you don't need that many photons per square foot
because your plant can't handle it.
But when your plant has all of the things that it needs
in the right amounts, it'll perform.
Yeah, absolutely.
So you stumbled on this Comfrey recipe sort of thing, right?
You started doing it, and you're like, wow,
it's making such a difference.
We should do something with this.
Well, that was a decade ago.
I was going to shut my shop down.
I had a huge problem.
It was an invisible problem.
I had a root knot nematode.
Oh, wow.
For like a year.
I didn't know.
I thought it was me.
My plants were not healthy.
I would start them.
They would grow vigorously with the Comfrey,
and my yields were like crap.
I couldn't afford to keep the shop open.
It took a year selling everything off.
Then I found out that I had this pathogen,
and it was horrible.
There was no cure for it.
You had to burn the place down.
There's a guy, I think his name is Jay McGill.
He had the same problem.
He was on your show and had the same problem.
He had to move.
I think his name is Jay McGill.
Jay McGilla?
They have organic indoor production,
and everything goes to manufacturing pre-rolls.
Oh, cool.
I want to say they're up north.
I think they're in Oregon.
I could be wrong.
I'm not sure, but I reached out to him,
and they just left.
It was an unsolvable problem.
You had to move.
You had to basically either torch it or get out of there.
There's some people that have been able to help control it
with beneficial nematodes.
I had that experience.
I had to walk away.
I had to make sure to leave everything behind.
No pots came with me.
We're in a better space now.
Right on.
We just want to spread the word.
You can make the stuff yourself.
If you have a comfrey plant, you can take it,
cut it down, ferment it.
You can chop and drop the stuff.
We always line our beds before every planting with comfrey.
Just straight leaves and stuff?
I do that too.
Everything in my garden,
like radishes, their leaves will start to brown
or yellow on the bottom.
Pretty much everything goes in.
Nature does all the roly-poly.
We'll come in and turn it into something
that your soil can manage.
My pumpkin was kind of an overload
because we had so many pumpkins.
We feed the...
On our property, we have a place
where we make our own compost now.
We've got a source of really nice hardwood.
It comes from baseball bats.
That's a really premium product.
We started training compost about a year ago
with an oak tree.
We just started recently getting this new product.
We've got to let it sit and do its thing for a year.
We've got a couple of hungry bins.
We want to take that compost
and feed the hungry bins with that.
Taking fungal compost and feeding it to worms.
I'm sorry, man.
You need me to...
I'm a dog lover.
I'm a little jealous.
I've got a 100-pound dog too.
I'm right in there.
This is awesome.
Are you growing currently?
You have a garden.
I have to grow and then move it to other people's places
because my wife doesn't want me growing at the house.
I have all these babies right now.
Actually, when I get back from this,
I've got to bring a bunch.
I squirrel them away in people's yards.
I'm like, you want to grow weed?
I'll grow it all for you, but I just need your yard.
They're like, yeah, dude.
That's awesome.
What about food?
What are you growing right now?
Fruit. We have an orange tree.
I'm growing mostly vegetables.
I grow strawberries.
I do a ton of strawberries too.
What sucks though is my kids are like,
yeah, strawberry plants.
Then maybe every once in a while
they'll eat a fresh one off the one we grew.
But then they'll eat the ones from the fridge nonstop.
The ones I grew will rot.
I'm just always out there eating them.
You got to get to them before the critters get to them.
I'm in the middle of a giant forest.
It's difficult for me to get it before the critters get it.
I've got gophers that'll come up and croak.
Oh man, I'm in the woods.
It's a constant battle.
I'm really into growing strawberries because it's easy.
The kids do eat them.
I just pick them and freeze them
and stack them up for smoothies
because the kids are going to eat the smoothies for sure.
I do a lot of carrots.
I'm in a much cooler environment.
We're in such drastically different environments.
I'm waiting for my carrots to seed out.
They're taking forever.
I just keep replanting
about every 70 to 90 days
depending on variety.
I grow carrots here around in Humboldt.
It's great because I'm right on the coast
trying to get more fruit trees in.
I'm actually really chasing some good comfrey varieties.
I have a friend.
We just toured Phoenix Rising Farms
up in southern Oregon.
It's a great farm to check out
if you're not familiar with them.
He's got an heirloom comfrey variety
that his family's had for generations
out of North Carolina.
I'd like to grow that.
He's been around in Oregon.
I'm like, yeah, I need crowns, buddy.
I just need to go up and visit him.
It's really cool to see those different varieties.
Hearing you talk about the different varieties
of what's there and what's not.
I'm growing comfrey at home.
Everything else I grow, it's a seed.
With the comfrey, I'm like,
I don't think I should grow that out to seed.
I want to use it.
The most I'm doing right now
is basically just chopping up
the leaves every once in a while
and putting them as a top dress.
Are you in the ground or in pots?
I'm in...
I have a couple 4x4 raised beds
and then a whole bunch of 65-gallon pots.
For most of it,
I'm starting to make all my own soil now.
I'll take my worm castings.
I'll take my...
It's like a thermophilic tumbler,
but it's more of a black soldier fly bin.
But it's fucking awesome.
All our food waste goes into it.
I basically split the food waste
between the worms and that tumbler
and...
Sounds like you've got very deep trash cans.
I give the worms the best pieces.
I'm like, you get the...
the mushrooms that we didn't eat
or the carrot peels or the...
I put a whole pumpkin in there.
You know, the worms love
the leftover from the ferment.
They just go to town on that.
We have all our leftover plant material.
We put that in the worm bins
and they just go on.
But, so that's the stuff I use.
So then I'll take...
I don't want to use perlite,
so I've been using pumice
and the hydroton rocks.
And then...
I bought a thing of sphagnum
and I don't really want to use that either,
but I have a ton of it right now.
So I'll mix the three of those.
And then the stuff I've been growing in there,
that's all like...
I'm doing radishes,
I'm doing a ton of lettuces in there.
I have winter grains growing in there,
but everything in there is super lush.
And you're super happy.
And...
which makes me happy when you're like,
I made that soil, like...
When you feed that food to your family,
you're feeding that nutrition.
There's no...
When you eat the salad greens,
you snap it, you notice that milky substance
that comes off?
That's medicinal.
That's the good stuff.
Yeah, all my lettuce does that.
Comfrey's medicinal too.
I'm like, sorry.
It's like, ahhh.
Yeah, and if you've ever used Comfrey,
if you've ever bruised or had a sprain or anything,
you can make a poultice with it.
So you just kind of like grind it up?
Mash it up.
They mix it with bananas, so it sticks.
But you can also just mash it up
and put it with some saran wrap on your skin.
And so if you have like, irritated skin,
or what kind of skin?
It's usually for bone.
So Comfrey,
the fault name for Comfrey is knit bone.
So it makes bones heal faster.
So it penetrates into the bones.
There's something...
The way it does it with leaves,
with plants.
I watched a TED talk not too long ago
about a lady who stepped on a sea urchin
and then broke her leg.
And the doctor x-rayed it after her leg break
and the piece of sea urchin they weren't able to get out
disappeared.
It seems like the calcium,
your body, when you have a broken bone,
your body starts looking for calcium to fix it.
And so maybe the Comfrey has something to do with that.
I don't know, it's speculation.
It's interesting, because it's high in calcium.
Very high.
It's got calcium, it's got silica,
it's got a bunch of B vitamins.
It's one of the few plants that have B vitamins.
Is horsetail something you would add in?
Like to a mix, like a product?
Or is it kind of like if you have the Comfrey
you don't even need something like what the horsetail offers?
You almost don't.
They just say it's high in silica, and silica's great.
But Comfrey have these little hairs on their...
on the surface of their leaves.
Notice it's itchy, it's really...
it sticks to you like a bone.
That's why, yeah.
I don't like having to touch the leaves.
Yeah, that's all silica.
I have a list, I believe it has a millipenum.
It has all the things that your plant needs.
All the trace elements, boron,
all these things in mining amounts,
and in the right amounts, and by available...
So is that because its roots are mining it from the soil?
It's because nature made it.
You know, we're not chemists.
It's a champion of mining nutrients from the roots?
It's the...
I mean, if you've got a farm or a ranch,
you should be growing Comfrey.
How's the show been for you guys?
Join us to Flower Lady Farms.
They brought some nuggets over to roll up.
So if we want to get them to kind of join the conversation too.
Oh yeah, who's here?
Flower Lady Farms.
I was spacing out when you were saying that.
Yeah, I'm going to get Rick and Flower Lady Farms to come.
Alright, I will jump up.
Yes.
Oh, sorry.
Yeah, just reach out to us.
We'll get you a couple of bottles for...
Well, what...
Grab one.
You just deserve a mic today.
Say hi.
What's your name?
Peter.
Peter, Skonis.
Skonis, nice to meet you.
How did you guys find your way to the Emerald Cone?
In a Prius from Los Angeles.
Yes, well, he relates to that.
Yeah, I do, I do.
I got here in Prius.
It's a manly car.
You sound like Bill Burr.
You listen to Bill Burr?
Yeah, yeah, he talks about that.
I watch his Netflix.
I watched it.
Yeah, yeah.
Paper Tiger, I think.
Yeah, that was a good one.
You brought the hippie?
I did.
And the deep fried runts.
Like a natural farming guy.
Maybe I should turn my hat back on.
No, just take my hat off.
I'm not a hat back for this kind of guy.
Well, I don't mean to...
He just invited me and prompted us to...
This is how it's been.
A little living conversation.
Just a bunch of cool people hanging out,
talking all things cannabis.
I'm Fred. I'm Scotus.
Fred, Chris.
Nice to meet you.
These guys, they have a farm here in Lake County.
Yeah, Flower Lady Farms.
We're a small, mixed light, 10,000 square foot farm.
Awesome.
Yeah, I got a license in August.
It's light debt right now, but we have a phased project plan
for greenhouses with assisted light.
We'll see if we get there.
Light assist.
We just finished a small little backyard,
small 20 by 25 greenhouse light debt project.
So that's exciting.
And at scale, it's...
Yeah, that's how I started in my backyard a couple years,
doing light debt.
Done indoor prior to that.
Garage. In my garage.
If I can do it at this scale, why not a hundred times?
Yeah.
It used to be where we had to hide it, now...
Matter of fact, the sheriffs were at our place
looking for three guys the other day.
But not you.
It wasn't me. No.
They didn't seem to mind.
They weren't there for that.
Yeah, exactly.
We just bust out our legal six.
Yeah, exactly.
Great.
I appreciate law enforcement in the context of
being a legal cannabis farmer.
They're on my side in some sense.
They certainly should be.
Now that we're all law-abiding citizens.
They're getting a great deal of tax revenue from...
Absolutely.
They're getting all of it.
From the fruits of our labor, exactly.
It used to be the case, though.
No, it's quite the opposite.
In Lake County, the county got over $17 million
in tax revenue last year from the cannabis industry
just on the fees for the permitting
and the square footage tax.
The wine industry, who doesn't pay a square footage tax,
paid zero in taxes to the county.
So, it's substantial.
The county office was open four days a week
for the last number of years
because they couldn't afford to stay open
Monday through Friday.
Now they're open five days a week.
They've given all their employees raises.
They've got new employees, new planners,
new building department heads.
It's really bringing a lot of benefit
even just to the local government.
That's great.
Do you see it having an effect and changing for the positive?
The part of the community that might have been anti-cannabis
going into legalization in Prop 64?
Do I see it?
Yeah, every community, especially up here
where you have the mix of the back-to-nature movement
around logging and mining.
So, there's been an anti-cannabis faction
deeply immersed into a super proactive cannabis environment.
Things like taxes.
This is what I see in other states that are going legal
where they want that money.
They're embracing it and doing it in a way
and really promoting it
where those governments love that money.
They want to spend all the money that we're willing to give them
and why not through cannabis?
Do you see it?
Lake County, are they coming around that part of the county
that might have been anti-cannabis before
and now they're embracing it
because now they're actually seeing that kind of money.
I think if you're talking about
in communities and
person-to-person, neighbor-to-neighbor
I think that's a gamut.
You get people where neighbors are totally pissed
that people are putting in pot farms.
Other times, they're really happy
and it depends on how you relate to your neighbors.
I've heard of farms going in
where the neighbors have been concerned
about the draw on the water table
and the effect it'll have
and if they'll lose their water.
The farmers are drilling additional wells
for their neighbors
to make sure that their needs are covered.
I would say that's a case-by-case basis.
In general in Lake County,
it seems like there's a positive disposition
towards people in the industry.
That being said,
there's still a lot of people growing illegally.
In that regard,
it seems like there's some bad myopics.
There's still a concern for the environment.
People pulling the water from the creek during a drought.
I think at the county level,
I think that they
appreciate the business
but I think it's such a headache
on the logistics front.
There's so many people
who are in the industry
and they're not getting paid.
I think it's a headache on the logistics front.
There's so many hoops
everybody has to jump through.
I think it's case-by-case in that sense.
That's common.
The bureaucracy part of government,
they have zero experience in cannabis.
Unfortunately, the people running the departments
that we're relying on
have zero experience in the jobs
that we're paying them to do.
In a perfect world,
we'd have a bunch of cannabis people
being employed in government.
We have a working relationship here
in the cannabis world and industry.
Enthusiasts have zero interest
in being government employees.
Catch 20,000.
It sounds like an oil and water situation.
Exactly.
In Lake County,
there's a Lake County Cannabis Alliance.
I know a lot of the counties in California
are doing that, probably nationwide.
The president of the Cannabis Alliance
became the head of
our district's planning department
for the cannabis division.
He was there for a while.
He wanted to help encourage
some positive change.
At a certain point, he left
because it was so frustrating
in terms of how dysfunctional.
That just seems like
par for the course from my understanding.
I've never been a government employee.
That's great.
That's something that,
in a perfect world,
I would love to see more of.
Even just on the concept
of government employees trading out
their positions more frequently
and more often.
The best way to get
a very widespread view
is to get more people
in your community
to take on that role
for two or four years
and then bounce and let somebody else
bring their voice in.
It's important for these boards
of supervisors of towns and counties
to get people in there
that have some sort of
cannabis experience.
It's critical.
We've had a lot of county officials
who have been real estate agents
or any other job.
Builders, contractors,
that kind of thing.
Now that cannabis is becoming
mainstream, I'm sure that'll
happen more.
In Trinity County,
we have one of our longtime friends,
Jeremy Brown, Booney Acre Farms.
He's actually on the board
of supervisors for Trinity County.
It's amazing what he's been able
to accomplish through that.
I don't want to have a job
in the government,
but obviously we see what happens
when we don't have that voice.
Right now, with the market
going where it's at
and they're just increasing
the taxes on top of everybody,
that's something that would really help.
We have people on the inside
being like, dude, we can't do this.
This is not the year for that.
Lake County in particular,
there's an interesting dynamic
where there's farms up to 80 acres
and we're kind of like a mom and pop
business model.
Trying to compete with those
businesses, it's not the same
ballpark.
Whereas other counties like
Mendocino, they have a cap,
10,000 square feet cap.
That's kind of what we would have
liked to have seen.
Now it's like, how do we get out
of this situation where small
farms are actively being pushed out?
Yeah, it's tough.
The California model,
you're talking about how we
get new people into the places
where they're making decisions.
It sounds like education might be,
how do we educate that group of
people that would want to be a
part of the community that would
help smaller farms,
that could help smaller farms
equalize, close that gap
between the heavy production
and increase.
Who do we need to educate?
Yeah, that's a great question.
It's kind of like a capitalistic
model in a sense.
You hope the market's going to
favor quality and small farm,
put the label on there.
Hopefully the market will
eventually value that.
Right now there's just such a
glut.
It sounds like that's starting
to change, educating the
community.
Should drive the market?
Yeah, exactly.
I think it's a great thing here.
These guys put together this
whole small farms initiative and
that's what we're a part of.
That's why we're here.
I think they hope it's going to
be the seed of something for the
future where every year you
could maybe build upon it,
give small farms an opportunity.
It's kind of a beautiful thing.
I would love to see for the
retail market, just like every
other item that's sold in stores
for these big 80 acre farms like
you're talking about, there
should be that component for
small farms that can actually
distribute their own product
where they actually have that
one-on-one interaction with the
dispensary.
You can go there and create that
relationship like any other
company does with their sales
team.
You rely on your sales team.
That's one thing that's really
great about this.
I think that's a part of the
process would be huge.
Obviously the farmers market is
another one where you can do
that kind of a setup where
you're actually out there,
you're booting up and customers
can come up to you and do the
same thing and get your
backstory.
I think there's so many farms
that have that creative story
for whether it's their passion
for their little plot of land
with the microclimate that
they're in, there's a lot of
people that want that
connection.
Totally.
Yeah, want to know where
they're getting their, whether
it's their tomatoes or their
cannabis or their greens.
There's a great company here in
Sonoma County, Wine Country
Greens, and he grows all of his
stuff in greenhouses.
He does like kale charred,
spring mix, all kinds of greens
like that.
He's in Olivers and Whole Foods
locally.
It's like my favorite greens.
They're vibrant with life.
It's awesome.
Robust.
That's really what it comes
down to is what's your
experience like with the product?
Right.
Taste is one of the big ones.
Yeah, you don't want to be
smoking Marlboros all day.
You don't want that to be your
weed experience.
Exactly.
Another, I mean maybe you've
covered this on your show, but
there's a legal entity in
California, I think it's called
the California Cannabis Farm
Authority.
It's not a legal entity, but
it's like multiple farms can
actually band together and
then hold multiple
license types.
So that would be a great
thing I'd like us to do with
farms local to us, you
know, smaller farms where
you're cooperating and able to
bring your products
collaboratively to market
together.
I think people, I would assume
as a consumer myself, I would
like to buy that kind of
product where I know I'm
supporting people.
And you can you can vet
the producers
that are in your
group.
Yeah.
Well, they do it with money.
Yeah.
How'd this year go?
How was the harvest?
So how was the season?
How did it treat you?
Well, for us, it was
our we started about
a year and a half ago
trying to get our permit.
It took up until about
August or September
this year to get the permit.
So that really held us back
in terms of doing our full
vision for the year.
But that being said, I
mean, we pulled down some nice
looking buds and, you know,
it was a success.
In terms of what we could control.
Yeah. Would you go?
Oh, you brought some. All right.
Let's check it out.
Show you guys. This is a
hippie crasher.
I like the jar here.
What's the hippie crasher?
The hippie crasher. What is that?
Cushmints and wedding cake.
I like it.
Yeah.
Wedding cake, man.
That's a good one.
I did a couple of runs of it
this year.
Yeah.
And it's definitely a
crowd pleaser.
Yeah. A lot of crosses.
Yeah.
It looks good.
Yeah. There are certain cuts
of the wedding cake that I've
noticed, you know, you get that
purple to kind of shine
through a little bit deeper.
We haven't I haven't really
been able to dig it, dig it
out. But we got some good
cold weather at the end of the
season.
I've heard people say there's a
lot of pinots of wedding cake
out there.
There is. Yeah, exactly.
Like everything.
Right. Yeah.
Once you pass it, once it's
been out for a year or so, you
know, people are plucking with
it.
This is a good stinky
strain.
Deep fried runs.
Deep fried runs.
What's we didn't come up with
the name.
Runs in deep breath.
Crossed.
Nice.
It's just.
Guys out here yesterday.
Just see that the
was it the runs cross with
the runs going for a thousand
bucks yesterday over at Sea
Junkie.
I saw that.
Yeah, we're talking to the guy
this morning.
Yeah.
I love those guys.
They do an amazing job.
Yeah. I bought my first five
hundred dollar clone today.
I've never done that in my
life.
But, you know, yeah.
Yeah.
Those guys share those
genetics.
Yeah.
That's good in the ball.
Check that out.
Yeah.
The deep fried deep.
Yeah.
Set up for light depth and we
did a full season this year
just because of our time
restraints.
Yeah.
Constraints rather dense.
How's the Emerald Cup been for
you?
Fun.
Yeah.
This isn't the first time
being at the Emerald Cup.
It is.
First time.
First time personally or
business.
Yeah.
Awesome.
Like I said, it's our first
year even cultivating on the
farm.
So, yeah, it's cool.
Get to network with all these
people.
Yeah.
Get some help in the industry.
It's good.
It's a one of a kind event.
You know, when it comes down
to the actual like the deep
roots of the culture behind
cannabis, you know, which is
clearly, you know, came out of
northern California.
Yeah.
This this thing definitely
ties it up in every way.
I mean, it brings out growers
that really don't come out
and leave their property very
often.
It pulls them off of the
mountain, you know, and brings
them into Santa Rosa.
And we get to share in our
harvest and talk about our
flower.
I love all the passion that
the growers when they come to
you can go to a high times
cup somewhere or any of these
other events.
And, you know, there's
cannabis everywhere.
People are happy.
They're smoking.
There's live music.
But it's different here.
There's like a deep pride in
being from northern
California and showing off your
flower.
And, you know, it's just it's
always fun every year I come
here and it's always the
highlight of the year.
It's a nice way to wrap up a
year.
Yeah.
You know, it's a nice way to
wrap up a year.
Yeah.
It's amazing that a plant like
this can bring everybody
together.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's a beautiful thing.
Totally.
Yeah.
It just blows my mind.
She's a river to her people.
I mean, I really feel like I,
you know, strange it is as it
is to say, I feel like I've
had a relationship with this
being cannabis for many years
and she's provided for me.
And it's like she's provided
for a lot of us.
And, you know, it's kind of
wild.
That's the name of our farm
lady farms.
Yeah.
Sco came up with it.
I was going to ask you, like,
what is there something behind
the name specific?
Obviously it speaks for
itself.
But yeah.
Yeah.
It's it comes from
it comes from a play
from a favorite
author of mine
teacher.
What do you think the flower
lady represented in the play?
Well, it represents feminine
beauty.
It represents the feminine
altogether.
And that
mysterious quality.
Yeah.
That, you know, beauty
itself, I guess.
And so I like the
it's like a play on words
because we're growing lady
plants, you know, and they're
they're flowers.
And everyone's like, why are
three dudes?
So, you know, we have to
fight off, you know, insults.
We it's a great name.
Yeah.
Yeah. We like it.
You know, but again,
it's this plant.
This is my first show here.
Like, I've never been to the
Emerald Cup.
I'm from San Diego.
My brain is exploding.
Sitting there with a couple of
friends and all these legendary
breeders are all sitting there
in a booth.
That's awesome.
You know, and this plant's
bringing all this whole
community together.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You really can't deny when you
look at a really nice bud.
It's just it's a beautiful,
gorgeous, beautiful, beautiful
flower.
I got to smell this again.
It takes real care to
to have cannabis
express herself in a really
you know, to it to the fullest
extent.
And we were talking
about it yesterday.
We're having a capture a moment
with with Berner and
Emerald Cup founder, Tim Blake.
And, you know, a graceful hug.
Them seeing each other for the
first time and coming up and
giving each other a hug.
And it was just sort of, you
know, those two guys are like,
you know, they're just super
passionate cannabis
enthusiasts.
And I've done so much for
cannabis.
I mean, Tim Blake with this
whole thing, his history up
there and outside
of Laytonville, obviously
Berner and Cookies.
Man, those guys have done a
fantastic job coming out with
some great genetics, kind of
game changing in a major way,
you know.
So, yeah, to see those two guys
like in that in that moment
together was like, this
is why we come here.
This is what it's about.
It's about all of us getting
together, sharing our stories,
sharing ideas.
Where do we go tomorrow?
Where do we come from?
You know, special stuff.
How did you guys start?
How did we start? Well, it's a
good question. Thanks.
We've been friends for, I don't
know, 12 years now.
We were in a band together for
a while, which was didn't go
anywhere. We had a lot of fun.
And then
yeah, I was actually doing
something called Rolfing, which
is deep tissue bodywork therapy.
And when the pandemic hit, you
know, it's like any touch
therapy practitioners, it's a
little tough to make it a
living. So it's kind of like,
well, what am I going to do now?
And I'd been growing before.
Chris was still growing and
and, you know, kind of had
deepened in his knowledge of
how to cultivate the plant.
And so we kind of started
working together.
Cultivate the plant and
we're kind of like, well,
what should we do?
And my dad had some
land.
So it just kind of my
stepbrother, Ben, our third
partner.
He was looking for something to
do also.
And so it was like, maybe we
should try and do a farm.
There you go.
Particularly a family thing.
Really. I mean, I'm not blood,
but you know, we're family
fathers land being in the
family.
Yeah.
We're in a bond.
Yeah. We all know that.
Together.
Yeah.
Your family doesn't necessarily
mean blood.
It's your tribe.
Right.
Yeah.
That's what's cool about this
planet.
You know, the passion that
everyone brings
attracts others.
I don't know how I'm sitting
here talking to you guys right
now.
Nice talking to you.
I was just talking about it.
You know what? I'm curious.
What's the cultivation style?
Tell us about that.
What do you guys do?
We got 20 low hoops.
So they're six feet wide,
seven feet tall.
And we use 10 gallon pots
right now with kind of like an
aerated soil.
Partly out of necessity for our
permitting.
We're trying to rush through
get, you know, not trigger
any building permits, whatever.
And partly it's just something
we could relate to.
We all came from indoors.
So having a 10 gallon pot, you
know, and we had about 1600
plants in the house.
We had about 1600 plants this
year. We probably bump it up
next year to 2400 or so
and use Athena
nutrients.
I was telling you, I use Tupper
Indoor.
So it's you right on.
Thank you.
Rosalind.
I love it.
I love the product.
And yeah, the bread and butter of
the company.
I would say we're kind of like
we're not the guys trying to do
the 10 pound plants.
You know, we've been doing
indoor a long time and we
understand
getting the canopy even, you
know, like, you know,
consistency.
Let the plant do its thing and
not not try to.
You know, you don't need to
start in March and get these
10.
Sure.
10 pound monsters.
So those are beautiful.
So far, it's worked out.
But, you know, what's the
Athena line that you're using?
Is it the pro line?
Yeah, the pro.
I put it in like a net of them
drip system.
Got these things called net bows
they came out with.
So give a nice even
water penetration.
What is that like?
We've been looking at the net of
them
sub irrigation.
But what is that drip
system like?
Come. We got tanks and then it
comes out, goes through a big
ass filter.
And then we got the valves.
We have four different zones.
And then once it gets to the
the each individual
hoop, it'll come down to a
half inch flexi line.
And then each plant has its own
individual dripper with a two
gallon per hour dripper.
And these net bows make
a little ring around the base
and they evenly spread the
water. So we went with that
because perfect for our
pot size.
It's just super easy.
You know, it's just really even
probably the easiest part of
what we're doing.
You know, once we got that set
up, we don't have to worry about
it. Everything else is kind of a
bitch.
But that was
we've been looking into water
soluble organic
vines and haven't really
settled on one yet.
It's just we knew
that the Athena was a solid,
reliable product.
And so but we like the idea
since we're in soil of doing
something organic.
It's just Athena's
a long way in a short time.
Yeah.
They're popular. I know a lot of
people that are having the best
success they've ever had.
Yeah. So simple, you know, and I
saw an interview with
the guy who made it or, you know,
the jungle boys or whatever.
Talk about how they would have
10 different part, you know,
nutrient line, which I've done
many times.
Always trying to add some new
shit. And yeah, this
is just two parts.
It's easy.
Yeah. Plants seem to like it.
So it's kind of what we're going
for.
Sounds like mitigating the
possible possibilities
of errors.
Right. Totally.
Yeah. And it's hard to find,
like Sko said, a water
soluble organic fertilizer.
You don't want to be gunking up
your headers and whatever.
So I've got to be able to go
through the lines.
So how do you go about selecting
what you're going to grow next?
What do you guys consider?
You know, we were.
Yeah, we're kind of like
I we went with genetics.
We'd heard through friends
and also just
available nurseries
that that we
thought looked good for this
year.
But now we're kind of looking at
finest
seed junkie, just
some of the popular
geneticists and see if we can
get some some some genetics that
stand out for this coming season.
Yeah. We're kind of like, OK,
we've got to really think about
this, put our heads together and
make some decisions for this
2022.
And I think this type of event
really event really opens up your
mind to, you know, thinking about
it. There's lots of networking
going on.
We talked to distributors.
There's some great ones in Lake
County and they're talking
to retailers and you kind of get
the vibe like, you know,
markets seem to be demanding purple
and, you know, 30 percent
THC.
So you got to kind of try to
accommodate that.
It's unfortunate that it's got to be
that way.
It seems like it should be one
thing that people would get.
Turp profile. I personally love it
when it's like 16 percent, you
know, because I got a lot of shit
going on in my life.
I can't be laid out.
Yeah.
So it's unfortunate that it is like
that. But you're right.
As a business, you
know, tapping into the market and
finding out what's going on,
what's relevant, what's new,
what's fresh, what's where's the
demand going to be right
now? The cannabis industry is a
little tricky like that because
it's it's all about that new,
new.
It's a constant chase.
And it's unfortunate because
growing anything, any plant,
there isn't a time where you can
get a plant that's going to be
growing.
There isn't a time that it should
take and it does take to get to
know that plant, its
characteristics, what it needs.
Does it like a lot of calcium?
You know, does it like aeration?
Does it like to be watered this
way?
And it's unfortunate because a
lot of times by the time you're
climbing, right, the car, our
elevation, your microclimate,
susceptible to PM, all those
things.
It takes time. It takes years.
Really.
Yeah.
You think of think of vineyards.
You know, they're they they
establish their
their vines.
Yeah.
And over years, decades,
they're they're working with them
in those
places, in those Appalachians,
terroirs.
Yeah. Whatever the terms
are.
Yeah.
They don't make it big until you
have a young man planting vines
and when they're they're 20 and
they're not a recognized brand
until they're great grandparents
almost.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Well, that's that's exciting.
So what's next for you guys?
What are you guys doing next?
Good question.
Yeah.
Yeah. We have been.
I don't have any conversations
you've had with people, but the
market has been tough this year
for wholesale.
Yeah. We came in.
We haven't had a chance to
develop the, you know, networking
necessarily.
So we came in, got a
late start.
Prices dropped.
So we're kind of like licking
our wounds a little bit this
year, even though we love the
flower. We grew and
kind of networking this weekend
trying to get a vibe for what
people are doing.
Develop some relationships.
The market wants to see.
The market wants the small
farmer, you know, because I
think it really is going to
cost more.
You know what I mean?
It costs more to do so.
It sounds like an education
issue, though, because
if the market, the consumers
don't know about
what you guys are doing,
how are they going to ask for
you?
So what's happening?
That's a good
question.
I don't know.
I see a lot with
small cannabis, craft cannabis,
farmers.
Is these competitions like the
Emerald Cup?
You can literally be put on
the map and the
viewership and the attention span
of the connoisseurs and the
cannabis enthusiasts.
What happened to the
competition?
Because I always.
So it's still happening.
What they're doing this year is
the actual award ceremony is
going to be in spring.
Right. So they didn't do it with
the covid thing.
And they wonder of doing it in
Los Angeles, actually.
I think it was April or
May. And that's kind of what
they're doing now. I think that
the idea and the plan going
forward is to split it up into
two events where this is the
harvest ball.
And then, you know, you would
actually you put in your
your testing, your samples
for the competition.
And then, you know, the award
ceremony was probably going to
be sometime in spring down in
Los Angeles again.
Yeah. I think that's a great
idea.
That's what we got going next.
Right. Well, no, I mean,
that'll sound great.
It sounds like.
So in San Diego,
I'm not a beer drinker, but I
paid attention to how the small
craft brewery industry
grew because my
hydro shop was also the
craft brew shop.
Two in one.
Right. And so it was kind of a
unique situation and how
these these small breweries.
It's not like we have
restaurants where we can consume
and try these things.
Right. Right. But a brewery, you
know, you can have an ocean side
and from Oceanside and see all
the local brews on the walls and
down the street, you have 20 of
them.
Yeah. So what's it going to take
to get to that?
Good question.
We've been looking into
micro business license, which
instead of just we just have a
cultivation license right now.
So with a micro business license,
I think menacinos really
follow that model where you
have, you know, you got your
cultivation, you've got your
processing, you've got your
transportation distribution.
And I think even retail like you
can do a delivery of some kind.
I don't know.
I don't know all the details yet,
but we're starting to do some
research there.
So that's one avenue.
At that point, we could be doing
pre-rolls or we could be making
we could be rolling hash or we
could make I don't know.
We're thinking maybe like cannabis
tea, you know, grow some of the
herbs on our property or
it sounds like it gives you the
room to do it.
You know, but again, it all costs
money and takes time.
And so in the in the midst of
that, how do you survive to
establish yourself in a way where
you've got a sustainable business
model?
So it's just like any
any business.
It's a creative endeavor and
challenging.
And so we're right in the thick of
that challenge.
Hopefully we can.
Awesome. Yeah.
Well, I appreciate you guys coming
and sitting down.
Thank you for having us.
For all the viewers and listeners
out there.
You guys have an Instagram or
website or anything like that.
You want to go out there?
We've got both Instagram and
we're throwing up a website soon.
But we do have Instagram.
Yeah.
What's your what should people
look for on Instagram?
It's just following farms.
Just nice and simple.
Yeah.
Awesome. Appreciate it.
Sounds good.
Thank you.
Great.
Great conversation.
Thank you for the opportunity.
Yeah, of course.
Nice chatting with you as well.
Thank you.
We're going to bring on Craig with
Satori Farms.
We ferment
a comfrey product.
Gotta go.
My guys are waiting for me.
Thank you, Peter.
Yeah. Reach out to us in the DM.
Yeah, man.
It was awesome.
You're bringing it, brother.
From talking trees.
And then who else?
From Green Forest Genetics and
Earth Juice also.
Here he's going to be popping in
just a minute behind us.
Come on in, Craig.
Grab a mic, my friend.
I'm super stoked to chat with you.
This isn't Craig's first rodeo.
I was like, what's up, Rick?
My middle name is Michael, so it
wouldn't be that farfetched.
Yeah.
I don't know if I would answer to
it, but I wouldn't be offended.
Dude, I'm so stoked to
chat with you, especially
here at the Emerald Cup.
We talked earlier this season about
the Emerald Cup.
We talked about the
Summer of the Z's and all the
genetics you were working on
rolling through.
And here we are after harvest.
So I've been stoked to
check in
with what you're doing.
Yeah.
So tell us a little bit about
how the genetics went.
Well, genetics are good.
I mean, we got some really good
stuff.
You know that a lot of it does
have skittles and I'm seeing
even all the new genetics
coming out.
So I'm excited to talk to you
about that.
Yeah.
I'm excited to talk to you.
I'm excited to talk to you.
I'm excited to talk to you.
I'm excited to talk to you.
All the new genetics coming out
here.
A lot of skittles influence
going on.
So can't go wrong with
it. Best turps in the game,
in my opinion.
So, yeah,
popping new strains
or new seeds, working on
phenol, new stuff.
Just cycle never ends.
Cycle never ends.
I love it.
It's great to see what's on the
menus here, like the biggest
seed guys in the game and
see what
what the new stuff people are
putting out. So it's pretty
interesting.
What caught your eye the
most this weekend?
What caught my eye the most?
Um,
I don't know, man, just the
family by being at the Emerald
Cup again.
It's been great just seeing
people being out,
you know, actually, I think
it's a stronger event than
what I would have expected
even just because the weather
is kind of off today.
But people have been
here. Enthusiasm's high.
Business is good.
Like, it's a great Emerald Cup.
So, man, I
completely agree.
We keep saying it's like a
family reunion.
And this morning we're like,
oh, man, the weather,
the weather.
But you're right.
And then the weather hasn't
even been that bad.
I thought I was going to be
like, you know, it was like,
oh, it really is.
Before I'm like, it's cold.
It's wet.
But yeah, it
wouldn't be an Emerald Cup
without horrible.
There's been hundreds of years
where it's part of the
tradition.
The weather has to be
horrible at least one day
for it to be an Emerald Cup.
I remember a year where I
think it rained probably a
week before Emerald Cup.
So we were walking into this
place sopping wet.
Yeah.
It hasn't been like that at
all. So even this little
rain, like, yeah, there's
puddles. But other than that,
it really has not been that
bad. I think California is
sometimes can, you know,
freak out with a little
little bit of a storm.
Like, oh, my God, you know,
it's coming. It's coming.
But it's.
Yeah.
It's not right.
I went to the very first
Emerald Cup in Area 101
and it was so wet.
Yeah.
So it's like you just expect
that every year.
There's no pavement there
in December.
You know, hopefully we
are getting rain because we
need it.
So, you know, it's all good.
Yes. December in NorCal, we
should expect the ground to be
damp, but it didn't dampen
the spirits.
And it's been great
music.
And it's really
been an incredible
celebration.
And for me,
one of the best parts is
hearing from everybody,
especially up in Humboldt,
all our Humboldt fam.
Like, what
worked for you this year?
What didn't work? What was
the standout?
You know, we've talked to a
bunch of folks about the
grow off. I know you did
grow off this year with the
hella jelly.
Like, of
all those things that you
did this summer of disease,
what stood out to you most
from your genetic
experimentation this year?
I'd say the
one that stands out to me
the most is the color in
the potency is there in the
yield is this mac and
cheese, which is actually
a Mac times gelato
33.
Ooh, my Booney acres
breaded.
And so we got two
Finos out of it, two
really distinct Finos.
The mac and cheese is
definitely like my favorite
top. And then we saved
another one that we're
calling jelly Mac.
So that was nice, too.
But the mac and cheese, I
think, really stands
out. And then we got
Minaj from I think
Sea Junkies genetic,
really nice.
Fino that we call the
Minaj 21 is like the Fino
from from that one that we
got.
And then
what else?
A couple other good ones
out there. I mean, I'm
going to always go back to
the smashers, the Skittles
times wedding crasher from
Booney acres.
Great strain.
He's been killing it.
I was actually just
talking about Mooney and
and Jeremy with
the last folks that were up
here. Flower Lady Farms
from Lake County and
how he's we're talking
about advocacy and getting
on the some
sort of bureaucracy and
helping guide cannabis from
the inside because we
really don't have that
voice where he's actually
doing that. He's actually
on the Trinity County
right. The board of
supervisors.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. And they're doing
and he's doing great
genetic work on top of it.
He's like hitting it from
all angles. I love it.
Yeah. We actually talked to
him on Railgun Radio.
Unfortunately, we're out
of town. Yep.
And, you know, he was
talking about that fine
line and the work that
his growers doing
breeding. He's like, I
can't claim any
responsibility.
Jeremy, I can't
claim Andrew.
Andrew is slaying
it.
Yeah.
And passionate
he's about the work.
Yeah.
I haven't got to be.
So we're hoping to get him
on and talk to you. But I
hear he's just like
in the flow right now.
Definitely.
Definitely. They put out
some good stuff.
Yeah.
Really enjoying their work
space. And when I was on
the tip of my tongue, but
man, it's Sunday.
I'm in a hall.
I go out the long week
of the trade shows and
stuff. I'm like, no, I
think that is the after
party.
Yeah.
You're a good person.
I'm so worn out.
You're a good person to
ask about genetics and
what's hot, what's not
and all that good stuff.
Because I know that's
always been your flavor
up at your farm is a ton
of genetics being being
run at the same time.
I think the other one I
was thinking of is Apes
in Space.
Nice.
Because the whole market
is chasing purple again
right now.
It's like I was talking
with somebody earlier.
It's like, you know,
what was it? Early
2000s, every every
two fifteen dispensary
had purple in the name.
Granddaddy, purple
Oracle.
Yeah.
Like the purples.
Then I went to OG
and SD only.
And now we're like going
back to now they want
purple OG.
They want purple gas.
The kids aren't good
enough anymore.
They want purple gas.
So.
Yeah, it's tough.
So we're chasing purples
and work on some breeding.
Never leave like the
skittles out of the race
because it's such a good
just so fun.
Yeah.
The second you count the
skittles out, it's going
to crush in.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So that's what I'm trying
to focus on next year
is get my tissue
culture lab going so
that we can just save
every strain and
or pheno that we have
because it might not
be the right time to
grow it right now,
but to be able to store
it and keep it cool so
we can grow it when the
time is right.
And maybe the
landscape change.
We're not just chasing
potency.
We're not just chasing
potency.
Because there's some
really good tasting
profiles out there that
I can't grow just because
they're like hitting 17
percent, but they still
get me super high.
It's like I want to grow
it, but it's like I got
to sell it to.
It's like I need to
shelf those for a bit
till the market like
develops and becomes
more educated and isn't
just shopping for potency.
Man, that's been a super
common topic today
specifically because
what percentage does
not equate to getting
high or not high or how
you feel from it like
so many factors.
1720s are the most
terpy delicious genetics
and they feel just as
amazing, but it's just not
that much THC the CBG's
the CBN's all that stuff
matters.
Yeah, big time, big time.
Totally agree.
Yeah.
So.
On that note, everybody's
looking.
It's got to be X percent.
It's got to be X percent.
Like are you hearing any
customers asking?
Well, unless they're
searching for a specific
CBD strain, is
anybody concerned with any
of the other cannabinoids
on the flower and not
really?
Yeah, CBD.
I mean, CBN is a good
selling point.
You know, if it does have
it, it's kind of more rare
and, you know, it's got
that sleepiness
equated with that
cannabinoid.
Right.
So helping with sleep.
So people love that.
You know, I'm hearing
about CBCBB.
I don't know much about it,
but people are starting
to search out for that.
But yeah, it's THC and CBD.
Then and it's forums
like this where we get to
talk about it that I really
expect to start to see
things change.
Eventually, to
really celebrate some of
these other cannabinoids,
we're talking about a
different breeder who's
brought all these genetics
over from Africa over the
last 50 years, he and his
wife, and they've got the
highest CBG and CBN
content that they can find.
But like nobody's talking
CBG and I've never even
heard of CBV really until
right now.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's so many.
I mean, there's so much
about the canvas plant.
We still don't know.
It's like, yeah, that's
the fun part.
Yeah.
So still so much to learn.
So.
So that's awesome.
You're putting in a tissue
culture lab.
That's the first time I've
heard of this project.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So you're going to be able
to library all these
genetics and kind of pop
things in when it's
appropriate, when things
get hot or get cold, you'll
be able to show them but
not lose them.
Totally.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Preserve them indoor,
replicate them in like mass
quantities to from the
tissue culture.
And then one of the
coolest things I saw here
actually was this one
nursery is selling
kits to do your own
on-site hop latent
testing.
So the hop latent
by rate by Roy, that's
like hitting people pretty
hard in the industry, like
cultivation scenes.
And now you can actually
do it and get out a
result within two hours and
like mass test your whole
population at the nursery
and stuff.
So pretty excited about
that pulling the trigger on
that one right away.
Big time.
Yeah.
It's going to be good.
That's the first I've heard
of that too.
That's going to change the
game like quick turnaround
hop latent by road testing.
Yeah.
Just just talking to some
of the nurseries here that
I like really professional.
They're professionalizing.
I mean, they're they're
doing good work.
It's like impressive like
they're, you know, they're
really testing the population.
They're, you know, testing
for hop latent, keeping it
clean, doing good business.
And like it all starts at
the nursery.
So like you got to have
clean cuts and clean
plants to grow good good
bug and weed.
So I'm stoked to see
nurseries taking like the
proactive approach to like
do the right thing, like
thoroughly do hop latent
by Roy testing and just
like really care about
putting good plants out.
So that was encouraging.
That is encouraging because
you can only really improve
so much from a bad starting
point. And I'm glad you
walked in at this moment,
Kevin. So this is Kevin
with Earth Juice Green
Forest Genetics, longtime
contributor to the
community on the
cultivation side and
genetics. And, you know,
I'm sure you can agree with
that. We're just talking
about hop latent testing
and quick turnaround,
hop latent testing,
changing the game.
The standards we're seeing
are really changing the
game. One hundred percent.
You know what I mean?
I'm sorry. The standards
we're seeing are really
changing the game. And it's
about time. You know, we
have medical since 96.
It's about time that we've
seen standards come in
that are really helping
our community. So I'm
very happy to see it.
Hundred percent.
Yep, definitely.
Yeah, I actually had a
conversation. I met
a person at a hall of
flowers that's kind of
still in the traditional
working like a trap
shower. Sess shop is the
word in L.A.
Sweet. And she's like, I
don't know. There's no
taxes and this and that.
It's like, well, yeah,
but you just don't know
what you're smoking.
That's the that's the only
really good thing about
regulation is that man,
everything on the shelf
and a licensed California
retailer these days is
clean cannabis, like no
fucking eel 20 and just
the nasty shit that a lot
of people use. I mean,
all the nine, a couple
of products once or twice
in my life. Well, you
know, when drastic
measures hit, but, you
know, like you got to
appreciate that, you know,
you know, we're putting
out clean cannabis and
there and there's a lot
more effort and care going
into the whole process.
And that's the one good
thing that legalization
has bought the taxes. On
the other hand, just like
fucking way out of
control. No, and that's
been a common chorus
today, too, is like
January's one is coming
and taxes are going on.
Prices are down.
Everyone's making less
money in the cannabis
industry than ever before.
And they're taxing it
more. So something has
got to give there.
It's definitely going to
change our industry. You
know, a lot of people,
if you can't cut a living
doing what you want to do
and put clean cannabis out
there, there's tons of
states that are doing
that. And I think that's
going to change. I think
that's going to change
in California. I think
that's going to change
in California. I think
there's tons of states
you can. California is
making it hard for us
right now. You know what
I mean? So next year,
when we see this change
in taxation, we may see
a lot of people bouncing
out of the state and
other areas to be able
to do the clean
cannabis thing, but also
have a life and quality
of life that it's hard
to achieve right now in
California with what
we're going through. You
know what I mean? You
work your ass off and
you're not bringing home
what you used to bring
home. You know what I
mean? So it's another
world we're living in.
There's no doubt about
it. Yeah. And it's all
the time in those states
where you're seeing it
emerge. Get out, be
vocal, talk to your
supervisors on the
smallest local level all
the way to the top. Make
sure to protect the home
farmers, the small
farmers, protect your
taxation. Like these,
these are the moments
that you have to protect
yourself from the things
that are facing these
markets that are starting
to mature right now.
Yeah, totally. Make
sure that you pay
attention to the voter
approved part of your
bill. Cause I think that
that was the biggest
detriment to
California's bill is that
once it was in, they
literally were able to
change whatever the hell
they wanted to
immediately. It was too
late when everyone tried
to respond, you know,
no one put their voice
out in the beginning.
And when things changed,
it was too late. There's
nothing you can do. We
gotta be vocal. We gotta
be ahead of the game. We
gotta stop it before it
gets to that point. And
that's the main thing.
It was so hard to be
vocal cause you're like,
yeah, I want
legalization. We all
want legalization. We
don't want our friends
and family to go to jail
for cannabis. We want
this legislation to move
forward, but it's bad
legislation. If you have
to wait again, let's
wait again, but like
keep fighting the fight.
But when you like
sacrifice it all for the
quick fix, it becomes a
challenge. And like, you
know, the state
bureaucracy, I mean, it
did not take long for
their, them to jump in.
No, I think it was three
weeks. I think was the,
was the acre cap got
lifted. No, the three
weeks later, I think it
was when it was the
red flag. I think it was
the red flag. I think
it was the red flag. I
think it was the red
flag. I think it was the
red flag. I think it was
the red flag. I think
it was the red flag. I
think it was the red
flag. I think it was the
red flag. I think it was
the red flag. I think it
was the red flag. I think
it was the red flag. I
think it was the red
flag. I think it was the
red flag. I think it was
the red flag. I think it
was the red flag. I
think it was the red
flag. I think it was the
red flag. I think it was
the red flag. I think
it was the red flag.
I think it was the red
flag. I think it was the
red flag. I think it was
the red flag. I think
it was the red flag. I
think it was the red
marketplace in California and want to get their hands on it, at least give the
legacy farmers that have been doing this for decades a fighting chance. Give them
five years at least to just establish themselves in the legal market before
they have to compete with big money and big investing.
Well it's a hard one when you have all these people who have built in our
industry and sacrificed so much and then they just get pushed out of it and
there's no going forward for them you know and it's a very hard thing to
watch and stomach you know what I mean a lot of events we're not even seeing the
same people who started a lot of these events they can't even be part of it
anymore and it's really uh it's changing. And it's sad because it's not even just
in a business aspect it's not even just people being forced out of the
business that they're in. The passion for the flowers is what's what's real and
that's the sad part when you tell somebody that you know what it's not
gonna be profitable for you to grow cannabis like you like to any longer
like that sucks. It's the truth though it's where we're going you know
everything's becoming spreadsheets and back appeal that's really where our
industry is right now in California marketplace. Which is where it comes down
to genetics which is another great time to dig in like. And I like the
spreadsheets I love data. A lot of people didn't realize where they were in their you know in their farm or their business until they actually put it on paper and then you really start realizing like wow I gotta change some things right I'm doing better than I thought you know what I mean.
I've been losing money for years.
The whole side of it is you know we got to evolve we got to evolve together we got to stay together we can't let people break us separate us we got to just keep moving forward for the goal we want.
Which is clean cannabis and a good living. And we got clean cannabis but now we need a living side.
You know we need people to benefit and be able to do this for a living and support their families and leave generations to come with something in their hands you know what I mean.
And the way it's looking right now some it's thinning out pretty quick. A lot of kids don't want to go into the family farm right now a lot of kids
want to venture away because what we're seeing you know so and it's hard when you have Oklahoma that's wide open you got Michigan you got other markets that are supporting their growers and we're in a very fickle spot in California right now.
Yeah and there's challenges in all of those markets I know it the home grows under assault Michigan in a big way.
That's where I'm from I left Michigan because the laws were so oppressive and I moved to California where 215 was happening because I could continue to cultivate without fearing going to prison for a long period of time.
For growing a plant.
For growing a plant and it it's crazy to see these markets that just come in and assault the home grow and break it down and break down the family farmer in a way that just kowtows to big money.
100%.
Big industry is coming and they want a piece of this they see money they see dollar signs now and they want their put you know what I mean it's as simple as that.
And for us guys that have been involved in this for years we got to grind we got to stand our ground and we got to do our business.
And build brands got to build brands got to build brands.
Bottom line genetics brands names you know these are the things that set you apart getting yourself out there.
Yeah something for the people out there in the world to link to and connect to that brand that.
That's it flowers just a commodity it's gonna rise and fall but once you get a brand go in the packaging and the following your price stabilizes because the retail prices haven't gone down for the consumer.
Wholesale prices fluctuating a little bit it's that bulk flower price that's just bottomed out because there's so much flower.
It's a crazy market nowadays you know what I mean.
This under a thousand dollar a pound for outdoor it's just all the work and time and effort that goes into this right the love.
I'm here just $400 a pound.
Yeah I'm seated all day I feed $50 pounds today from Oregon.
I mean it's a crazy world we're living in right now you know what I mean and I never saw this growing up.
I mean we worked hard we took a risk but we got paid.
Yeah.
And now we're still working hard the risk is gone so is the reward.
Right we need to change this.
The risk isn't gone now you're risking everything with your livelihood by throwing it all out there and getting ahead and paying taxes before you've recovered the money before you can even think about pulling the money out of the crop.
Always been investing in this business yeah.
It's always investing.
It's like you think it's gonna be good but or at least sustainable but now it's just like where it's at today is not sustainable.
You can't make a living.
No.
When you're effectively taxed like over 70% is what it basically comes to it's like crazy.
Yeah I mean sometimes you look at these spreadsheets and they don't help you when you start seeing all this stuff they discourage you you're like damn I didn't even want to see that I'd be going still.
But now you showed me that I don't know I got to rethink this.
Yeah.
So you know sometimes the math is nice the data is nice and sometimes it just discourages people from walking away because it's what we grew up in.
This industry has changed so much over the years it's not even funny and it's continually to change like almost quarterly now.
It's almost like electronics every six months it's a total shift.
Well I think a crucial thing to keep in mind too is that we are still technically dealing with this pandemic right.
That's affected business on every level across the entire globe.
You know and I know we've been like recession proof before we've gone we've kind of snaked through certain certain areas pretty much unscathed.
You know obviously shipping is affecting everybody it's going to affect this industry in a lot of ways as well.
You know people working from home being able to just smoke cannabis all day long when they weren't able to before.
Obviously government money being handed out to keep people afloat.
Not everyone's going to be responsible with that money.
I'm sure a lot of that shit was going right to the dispensary right to the growth store to set up a little home grow.
Right.
So with people going back to work and obviously you know we can get past the whole COVID thing then I feel like that could also change and stabilize its way through as well.
I agree.
You know.
Well and it's interesting too because inflation is happening everywhere you're seeing everything go up in cost.
And fast.
I mean fast.
Why is it that bulk flour is going down so fast in the face of every single input going up.
The fuel.
The fertilizer.
The packaging.
Anything.
Overproduction.
That's why.
I mean overproduction.
There's too much weed in California right now.
And.
In some way.
Although a lot of it typically even in legalization was going east.
You know Oklahoma Colorado all these other states.
You know.
They're eating it.
They're that much closer and you know the quality is never going to be comparable.
That's one thing that California will always have is.
When you scale up to.
We.
Decline.
It's so quick.
You know what I mean.
You got Florida coming in to service the other half that was so far out.
And it's making it hard for us.
It really is.
Yeah.
Yeah.
You have to become more accessible nationwide.
So that's where genetics come back into play.
You've done a ton of genetic work over the years.
You know my favorite things in the world is to twist the plan.
Yeah.
I love it.
You know what I mean.
But again we twist things for a reason.
It's not always just for fun.
But you know microclimates all kinds of things play roles in why we twist things and why we read for certain situations.
So what genetics are hot on your list right now.
What do you plan with that is intriguing.
What do you think is going to be the hot thing next year.
I know we're talking and we're like I think this jealousy is going to be on the forefront.
What do you see in.
You know I still like to play in the old days.
I still like to do a lot of long Valley Royal pushes.
I like the hazes still.
I like to twist it different in the market.
There's so many people doing new stuff.
I kind of like to go in that opposite direction.
You know what I mean.
So I've been doing a lot of preservation readings basically for all to T-Buzzle hazes.
Just trying to bring back genetics that's hard to find out.
You know you look at all these seed bank lists and you see wedding cake crossed with everything or you know this probably the biggest out there is gelato right.
Everything crossed with gelato right now.
But you don't see any much variation anymore.
Their terpene profiles are very similar.
Both patterns are very similar.
All the flower looks pretty similar.
You know we're in the dark flower right now.
Everyone's in the purples and darks.
You know what I mean.
Two years ago you could even sell a purple or dark.
The concentration market has changed our industry tremendously.
Exotics control a lot of our game now because of concentration.
Prior to concentration a lot of these exotics numbers stood a chance.
But now with concentration your qualities are there.
The highs there.
People are loving exotics.
Yeah it doesn't matter if the flower doesn't have eye appeal if you got that terp profile.
Well you don't even smash it.
Yeah.
You're just getting a jar and dabbing it out.
Well look at these low THC plants right.
You have all these low THC plants that never really stood a chance of production for the flower market.
But in the concentrate world they're gone.
You're getting you know you're piling up where you're getting 80 90 percent THC in strains that were 12 14 percent that never did much for you.
But in the concentrate form they're everything that you want.
You know what I mean.
So this is where the exotic change came in for us in the California market.
But in my opinion is when concentrates took off.
It opened the door for exotics for flavors fruits berries.
These were things.
This was a heavily OG driven market at least in my perspective for a long time.
The concentrates came in and mean OGs just kind of disappeared pretty quick.
That's kind of interesting.
I just thought about that when you were saying something is that you know potency is everything on the flower.
But for the extracts potency isn't what everything is that profile that smell that taste.
Because the potency is there because you're going to be over 60 percent no matter what.
So I mean it's kind of cool.
You can get away as long as the resin content is good for washing or extracting whatever they're doing.
You can get away with these lower potency strains because you're going for that turd.
And if you have the correct supply and production chain to like get it to extract properly quickly fresh frozen and get somebody that has again a brand to bring those to market because you can't be a no name brand with some exotic turps on the shelf at a dispensary and have it move.
Bottom line or even get remotely paid.
Now you know you see the dispensary pricing is out of control.
I mean what I see these guys paying for an eighth of flower is like ridiculous.
Ninety dollars for a flower that comes in a tuna can.
And that goes back to my mind 10 years ago this would never fly.
I guess I ever read something that tuna can.
I think we're going to go crazy.
Nowadays.
Why not.
I have to say the tuna can thing.
We talked about this when we were on the road growing radio at Rampart at the skate shop skate park.
You're seeing the tuna cans.
We were like I don't see him anywhere.
I don't know man I think it fell off.
But no there's no float around.
I mean if you're coming into an industry right.
Yeah.
It's a cheap way to market.
You don't want to go glass right.
Especially right now with all the supply shortages.
Well I think the cans fell off.
But all these companies who supply products they're sitting on these things so they never went anywhere right.
It fell out the back.
Now right now that's what's available.
You're seeing people go nuts.
I'm not saying they're doing it because they want to do it.
But what's around and what's available is really what's happening right.
Like I can't get you a jar for nine months but you can get tuna cans tomorrow.
I'll give them to you right now.
Bottom line.
And they're half the price they were.
Right.
Right.
So you've been working on this.
The biodegradable mylar.
How's that project going.
It's on the boat.
Actually darn I thought I had one in my pocket.
Yeah.
We got compostable mylar bags for flower coming in next week.
Off.
All right.
No not on the boat.
They're going to be on a plane.
You're lucky that you're lucky that thing next week.
I'm going to go grab it.
I actually got to go.
I was supposed to be somewhere 715 for real short but I'll come back to the conversation.
I'll bring you guys my new free roll packaging that we're testing.
It's like 100 percent biodegradable little pouch inside the box.
It's pretty cool.
Nice.
That would be great.
Yeah.
So I'm gonna jump out.
I'm gonna go get my new free roll packaging.
That would be great.
Yeah.
So I'm gonna jump out.
Do it.
I'll chat in here.
I'll be back in like five ten minutes.
Thanks so much.
I appreciate you.
Always good to talk to the crew guys.
Yeah.
When you get a chance try and track down some talking tree flowers man.
People.
Yeah.
People at home.
Track that flower down.
You want it.
You want it.
And if you see a beer on the way back.
Just saying if you happen to.
So yeah man.
So you're working with the old school strains and I think that's been another
recurring topic today is old school.
Like I was telling my dad yet over the last two years I'm like dad you need to
try some of these new genetics he's been running master kush since the cows came
home.
California staple for how many years.
And he's in Michigan.
So you know he's loving it.
And it was like changing the game there.
And I'm like dad you need new school genetics.
He's like this shit's amazing.
What do you mean.
They broke don't fix it.
We got him some cake and he's like people seem to really like that cake.
Like yeah it's different.
It's it's the frostiness the appearance of those new school genetics the gelato
is this Giggles is different.
It's all swole out burped out even full sun you know sustainably grown
regenerative.
It peels out in a different way.
We're evolving into an amazing time in cannabis for genetics.
Yeah we truly are.
There's no offense or but you know I mean I like the old school side because
that's where I grew up on.
That's what I remember and you know what I like to go back to.
But I mean you got a lot of guys doing phenomenal work nowadays really putting
out some amazing hybrids vigor.
Everything is there across the board and I'm happy for those guys.
It's just I don't know.
I like the old school.
It's what I knew it's what I grew up with and I want to preserve it.
I don't want to see it leave.
You know what I mean.
Like I got a cut yesterday.
Black Cuban A's you know these are strains that you don't see around all
time anymore.
Huge fan of the Hays and it takes me back every time.
Is that the purple city.
Yeah.
Sorry to cut you off.
Yeah.
I saw that.
I mentioned that.
Yeah.
So I remember walking through Grateful Dead shows and that like you could find
those hazes be like you know late night early 90s.
You're walking through a Grateful Dead show and you're like oh my God what's
that.
It's like somebody's burning you know exotic incense.
You're like I got to track that guy down.
Yeah.
Find that like so many new school consumers have never seen true hazes.
Well a lot of these new school guys don't even see flowers.
They're so into the concentrate market that they have you guys have never even
spoke the flower.
Yeah.
I mean kids all the time that don't smoke flower.
They've seen it.
They've smelled it.
But they're concentrate guys because that's their generation.
That's the new era.
Right.
So how sad.
It's really crazy to see that without flower you wouldn't have any of this.
Don't you know we need to get respect to the flower.
It's always the start of everything we do.
Without it we couldn't have concentrated.
I agree.
So people need to pay homage man to the time that's new and the people who have
been out the way.
And I want to see it.
I want to preserve it.
I want to make sure that things are around for my kid to try from the 70s if
he wants.
You know what I mean.
And see the evolution of cannabis.
I love that about you Kevin.
I mean the fact that you said I've always loved you anyway.
We go way back.
I'm a preservationist not necessarily like me out there doing the hard work of
preserving.
But you know one of the main reasons I like the Grateful Dead is that they
preserve old timey music right.
Old recipes old heirloom strains of a tomato.
Like I love that stuff because it's so easy for that stuff to be lost.
When it's lost it's lost forever.
We already know that there are varieties that that has happened to 100 percent.
So yeah.
And those those hazes those old school strains man.
That's the stuff that you know the old back to the landers in California were all
growing and they were twisting them like you'd say.
There's all the big sir.
I mean there's so much stuff on our coast that has really just slipped away that I
feel plays an important role and greetings in the future of our cannabis.
So preserving it is key to me.
And that's kind of where I took about two years ago I switched my direction in
breeding and I really started focusing on land race.
Just a lot of rad things that we don't see around anymore that have a lot to
offer.
Yeah.
That's interesting because we haven't seen each other a lot in the last couple
years and last time we crossed paths in the parking lot of a restaurant in
Southern California you were shoving handfuls of fritters and all sorts of other
stuff in my hand.
So I was surprised when you were like I'm into these old school things I'm cat
cataloging and you always have been.
But like the primary focal point being those things is a little bit of an
evolution from the last time we sat down and talked.
So many people.
It's refreshing.
You know there's so many people moving forward and there's no one really working
in the back end anymore.
And I don't want to make sense.
You know what I mean.
I'm not saying that.
It makes sense.
It's better.
What we're seeing in the evolving economy is amazing.
But like you said everything plays its role at a time.
And a lot of these genetics are the building blocks to what we have today.
And without these genetics we wouldn't have.
So the key thing is to keep these genetics around.
You know original Jack Harris original things that people have never seen.
You guys have never even seen a true Jack Harris train wreck.
You know what I mean.
And these are things that people should all experience.
These are the beginning ends of where we are today.
Yeah I could agree more.
And that's why we do so well together.
Exactly.
Like I grew up.
Like the same brain.
You know late 90s smoking or you know really 93 to 99.
All these Amsterdam genetics.
The super scones.
Barney Farms.
All the old schools.
You know.
Fancy seeds.
Bubble gum.
You know all this stuff.
Super scones.
There's gray area.
Fancy scones.
Like.
Yeah.
We need to keep this around.
You know I was on the East Coast last month.
I found power skunk.
I haven't seen a cut of power skunk in 20 years.
I'm not even familiar with that one.
Boom.
Boom.
Boom.
Boom.
Boom.
Boom.
Boom.
Boom.
Boom.
Boom.
This guy from the shop.
This guy marks like I got some power skunk.
Pulled it out.
It brought back so many memories.
It wasn't even funny.
So the East Coast that's where you're going to find some of that stuff.
All the enthusiasts that are out there.
They're they're they're cataloging the catalog and that stuff.
They're saving it.
They're preserving it.
And it hasn't been this new rust.
The availability hasn't been shoved in their face every day.
You know you don't have that availability.
You have to save what you have.
There's been people growing those genetics and keeping.
Kind care of them for 25 30 years.
Yep.
That's not easy to do.
No.
I mean people don't realize how hard it is to keep it straight around as a mom
without a cut off a cut off a cut off a cut.
I've lost hundreds.
And all kinds of things and techniques to keep something thriving and vigorous
for 20 years is a job in itself.
Besides what you're doing with it.
Yeah.
You know, that's a lot of work.
I bet.
But if you want to keep it, you got to do it.
It's one of those things.
Cause when it's gone, it's gone.
Oh yeah.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
You know, that's one thing you saw pre legalization is people would share more.
And then once, you know, it started blowing up, people didn't want to share
their genetics.
They're like, dude, somebody else is going to blow it out and then I won't be able
to sell my unique thing.
And I'm just like, asked out for this unique thing that I've had or developed.
And then they have a catastrophic crop failure and it's gone forever.
They never handed it out.
Exactly.
Carver lottery is something that our industry is falling out with.
Right.
We, um, we're advancing, we're moving, we're building, we're seeing money, but
we're not seeing the community where it was 10 years ago, 15 years ago, as far as
a tight knit community that support each other, where you could get on a forum and
ask a question and get 50 people answering it.
Now you got a forum to ask the question.
It's crickets.
Yeah.
No one wants to tell you nothing.
No one wants to save nothing.
No one's to share nothing.
You know, we don't evolve unless we all help each other.
You know, it takes all three of us to come together to do something great.
Right.
And this is where we're dying because we're starting to see, I'm not going to
say selfishness, but like you said, when you brand, when you're going to the
legal market, you want to make money.
You don't want your competition growing, what you're growing.
You want to have something separate that sets you apart.
And this is kind of, we're losing strains over it.
We're losing genetics over this type of stuff.
Well, what are your thoughts on IP and plants and protecting them through IP?
Oh, you got to protect your plants.
It's no offense or buts.
You know what I mean?
That's one of the biggest sides of it.
Yeah.
Well, no, I, you know, I think it's, it's where we're evolving, you know, like it or
not, it's where we're going as an industry and you're going to have to
trademark, you are going to have to do your stuff because otherwise you can have
50 people growing it.
The only way that, you know, it's a brand is the trademark and we are seeing it in
cannabis.
It's happening all the time.
It's nothing new.
Um, and I don't, I have no problems with it.
I think it's great.
You put in all this work all this time.
You want to have something come out of it, not 50 people taking your thunder.
So I have no problem with it.
I think it's great.
And I've been looking into it myself, um, about preserving certain things, right?
So if you had a really special strain, would you maybe go down the patent route?
You know, when you're able to present, I'm looking into it right now.
There's a handful of things I've created over the years that, uh, I've been kind
of hoarded.
I just haven't given out because you know what we talked about, if I can trade
market and keep it as my own, I'll give it to everyone.
I don't even want to charge anyone.
I just want, I want, it's hard to say.
It's not a credit thing, but you put so much time and work into something.
That's the point.
You then have the option to do, to control, to do what you want.
If you want to give it to them, if you want to give it to them.
And that's the theory behind that blockchain that we've been talking about all
weekend that, you know, again, I'm not sure about how this works, but we've talked
to the people from the Humboldt legacy, Humboldt Grace legacy project, and they're
trying to find a way to create independent ownership status without the legal
wranglings to catalog and document an individual's ownership of a specific
genetic and allow them to then release it through a traceable system that catalogs
with track and trace.
So they can be like, it's a free for all.
Anybody can have it.
It's mine.
I genetic, I, I came up with it.
I'm recognized in this blockchain, but anybody can do anything they want, or you
can do anything you want, but you need to give a penny per pre-roll to charity, to,
you know, eliminating plastics from our ocean or what have you.
So that's such a wide variety of control without having to go through the patent
process.
And it's a patent lawyer developing this concept.
So again, which again, you got to endorse it.
I don't know enough, but it's so intriguing.
But you know very well that the large corporate players have no qualms.
No, they have a whole floor of lawyers to do all this for them.
They're already on payroll, but for a small time grower or someone, you know, who is a
farm owner who's barely surviving with taxes, how do you pay for this?
How do you go out and get someone to come to you?
Well, there are lawyers that are really industry friendly lawyers who are, yeah, they
really are.
There are ways.
Yes.
I've been talking to Steve Hill about this, you know, for a while now about getting this
done and trademarking.
And I think it's the future of cannabis.
You know, we see it all the time.
People give away cuts all the time.
Like, Hey, just give this out.
And then the next guy wants to sell it.
We see it all the time happen.
You know, I get cuts out.
I'm like, Hey, just give this out to your buddies.
And then I find out this guy paid $300 for his cut.
And I'm like, dude, I gave you for free.
And that's always been the huge generosity spirit of this, of this group.
I'm going to put it out into the world.
And once it's out, guess what?
It's the world.
Yep.
And it's eight years and it's gone and you have no control over it when it goes, you
know, you get mad, angry, yell, scream, but it doesn't do anything.
It's when the damage is done, damage is done.
So I think trademarking is key.
And we see it in every industry.
We see it as far as nutrients, manufacturers, clothing, anything.
It is key to preserving your legacy.
The interesting thing is one strains are out there.
Then is let, you know, let the better grow or win.
I mean, I make a lot of strains and sometimes I see people grow way better than me.
And I'm the guy gives you the pat on the back.
You know what I mean?
Like, Hey bro, I appreciate that.
Like, you know, but some people don't like that.
They see someone doing it better than them.
They want to back.
No, that's mine.
No, no, no, no, no.
It's easy to feel threatened.
It's very easy to feel threatened.
And we see it in all aspects of life.
And I hate to see it coming into account.
Well, imagine like what you're, there's a lot of growers now that are going into making gum.
There's a few, not many, but some making gummy, putting a gummy product on the, think about that product.
You know how, how, you know, anyone can come in.
So it's, you know, you, you have to stick to your processes, you know, and you have to, whatever it is that you're doing.
You can't cut corners.
Yeah.
You know, because someone else can come along and make a better gummy or whatever, you know, dream.
Even if you don't cut corners and you keep everything straight, there's always going to be someone that does it better.
It's the world we live in.
That's true.
Always going to be someone that's going to come out and just do 10% more than you're having angle.
You didn't see.
And they're going to change that whole product.
You know?
And it's a great thing to see because when you tunnel vision on something, it's nice to have outside eyes, right?
You don't want to just sit in this thing where I'm right.
I'm right.
I'm right.
I'm right.
I'm right.
When you know what, you could be wrong.
Someone could come in and give you one little bit of advice that changes the whole game.
And you know, keeping that open mind is key.
You know, that's really true.
Qualify.
If, if, if people are disciplined, that's a really great quality in this industry, but being able to pivot is equally important.
It's just as important.
You know, you got to evolve and if you don't evolve, you get involved around.
Oh, sorry.
You got to evolve.
You know what I mean?
So it's one of those things.
It's, they're all building blocks.
We all help each other.
Sometimes you need that push.
Sometimes when someone takes your stuff and does it better, it makes you step up.
Right?
So we need these building blocks.
Success.
We need these.
They're, you know, they help you.
They're healthy.
Competition is healthy.
Can you talk about your watch a little bit that I can't take my eyes off it?
You know, I've always been a watch guy.
It's my baby.
A skeleton skull head.
It's massive.
It is.
It's massive.
I just got this really cool grateful dead watch.
I commented on that earlier when I saw it.
I was like, Hey, what's up dude?
I noticed it right away when he brought it in too.
I was like, Hey, nice to watch there, buddy.
You know, I'm pretty mellow about a lot of things, but I've always been into watches
ever since I was a kid.
It's just one of these things I've always been into.
It announces itself.
What can I say?
I appreciate that.
That's awesome.
So it's, uh, I'm happy to see what's going on in our industry.
I couldn't be happier for us.
I'm proud.
Um, you know, it's not us doing the taxation.
It's not us dealing with this side.
We're still doing our side.
We're producing great flower.
We're evolving concentrates, edibles, rubs, topicals.
I mean, we are really coming into medical health or helping people.
And this is great to see on a worldwide scale.
You know what I mean?
So if we could just level out the tax side, level out, you know, the business side of
it, I think we'd be in a great spot.
Yeah, I agree.
The taxation thing is definitely a major factor that's going to wind up hurting
everybody in the long run.
I mean, California, when we see this January, February tax increase come up, we're
going to see a lot of people bounce.
That's it.
You know, I hate to say it, but I understand why.
You know what I mean?
I hate to see it, but it's another reason why a lot of people stay small.
You know what I mean?
It's just a lot easier to not get to that level sometimes, unless you really want to
put that work.
You know, I know the increase is baked into 64, but I still find it utterly
unacceptable.
No, I don't think we should have ever left 215.
Six, 64.
I mean, you know, and everyone was so bombed after it passed, but you should have
spoke up before it came.
Once it's done, you ain't going back.
You know what I mean?
So at the end of the day, that was probably one of the worst things for
California.
Cannabis was a 64.
It just opened the door for them to implement what they wanted.
They also.
But then they changed it after the door for them to implement whatever they wanted
with that.
Without voter approval on one version, they gave us another.
That's what we were just saying a couple of minutes ago.
It's very important as these other states maybe sign on to their own bills.
Pay attention to that part.
Make sure that it's voter approved because, yeah, given the ability to change it, you
got to watch the bait and switch, man.
They're going to tell us what we want to hear.
We're going to sign that document.
Then there's a loophole that they can do whatever they want and we can't do nothing
about it.
We're done.
Yep.
And here we are.
Yep.
So.
Yeah.
I got into heated arguments with people about that prior to it passing.
And, you know, I'll be honest.
I voted against 64, even though I desperately want cannabis legalized everywhere, but I
just.
We want it done the right way.
It was baked in that this was going to happen.
There was no question it was going to happen.
And our, our struggle, our decades of fighting to be recognized and everybody's like
rushed to get it through so that they could cash in and start blowing this up and
rocking it.
We kind of got blinded by our own ambition.
Sure.
Perfectly.
Yeah.
Well, we just went too quick.
You know what I mean?
It's as simple as that.
And it's evolved way too fast and not enough people really knew what was going on.
Oh, sorry.
Not enough people really knew what was going on until it was too late.
You know what I mean?
It's true.
It's one of the biggest sides of it.
So being aware, staying up, staying involved, keeping an eye on everything that's going
on.
These are the key factors that help us move forward as a community, right?
You got to keep everyone informed, everyone on that level.
Yeah.
So that's the one aspect I feel like that can be changed, you know, through being
proactive is, you know, trying to stand up with a small craft cannabis farmer by, you
know, means of farmers markets by means of maybe opening up their own distribution to
to retail themselves.
I'm good.
You know what I mean?
I think that's a possibility.
You can actually still maybe put that through in a different section of the law.
100 percent.
You know, it's not over.
It's just a new challenge.
It's what we got to get through.
Right.
And we'll get through it.
There's room for advocacy.
We'll get through it.
And the state can continue to change the laws.
They can change them back.
They can put some legislation in place that protects these small farmers.
But we all have to be vocal and get out there and tell them that it needs to happen.
And even though we are, it hasn't happened.
But the more people can unify small farmers, humble, you know, we got the Willow Creek
Cannabis Alliance, who's been really integral in this.
We got, you know, NCIA is more of an industry voice.
It's you know, we have a lot of really unique associations, the Humboldt County
Growers Association that are advocating for these farmers.
The more they can connect the Mendo, Humboldt, Siskiyou, the small Trinity people.
We have to unify a voice to go to the state and say, no, no, no, no, no.
Come on, you can change this.
We know you can.
You did it real easy before.
You need to get back and change it back because you're just shutting the door on
our legacy.
Could you do that to Napa?
Could you go in and be like, oh, guys, sorry.
Grapes are done.
Grapes are done in this way.
We're going to tax it 70 percent now.
That's cool, right?
No, the grape farmers, the wine industry, not going to happen.
They're pretty unified lobbyists.
They could fight that and the state would bend in a second.
They would say, OK, yeah, you're right.
This is fucked.
So come on, state.
Come on, local growers and small farmers.
Get together. Fight the fight.
I know you guys all want to.
If you're not in it with your local association, get in there.
He said he was going to come back and show off his new.
Every voice counts.
That's the whole side of it.
I don't care how small you are, how big you are, how big your farm is, whatever it is.
Yes. Every voice counts.
And we get enough people together.
We're going to see a change that we want.
Simple as that. What'd you get?
Oh, yeah. Nice.
So we got some we got Peter coming in with nuggets in hand, which typically means
somebody else is over here with something super chronic to join the conversation.
Now you got to love it.
Yeah, so we'll see what happens here, but I do want to say right now, just in case.
Thank you, Kevin. It's been a great time to have this conversation.
Like we've been friends for years and years and years on the, you know, cultivation side,
seeing each other. And it's just really great to be able to connect here, share it with
the people. I appreciate it very much.
I always appreciate everything with you boys.
You know that seriously.
I always love being around.
Sir, you want to sit right here?
It's a lot. Come on in, my friend.
Yeah, sure.
Thanks, Kevin. I appreciate you.
Thanks to everything, guys.
Keep fighting the good fight.
Sorry, we're having minor technical delays here with our neighbors and boxes moving.
So. Stand by.
Smells like a yeah, like a like a like a.
I thought we were done here.
It's the last one.
Here you go. So let's talk about this.
We're we're just talking about this being a haze and we're like, all right, was it
silver? Is it Neville's like what are you getting out of that?
It's definitely a northern light.
Says it's one of the Neville, one of the things from Neville.
Like it's probably like a something that comes from like what they call the Cuban black
or something like a rare A5 bag seed or C5 crossed with something else.
It's they never they don't smell like much.
And they I mean, they do, but it's really subtle.
And then did you check it out yet?
I didn't check it out yet.
So smell it. So you can see it's it's really obviously in that vein.
It's not like a straight haze.
No, but it's got that Cuban undertone.
It has that total.
It smells like something that came from like the from like the from that side.
Oh, big time. But I like what you're saying.
It does have that like an LF one sort of blank build also with the fingers.
See the the chunk to it like hazes and chunky like that.
And it has that that sugary look to it, but not like ridiculous.
But it's definitely the influence there.
Yeah, I'm I'm such a big fan of the original NLF one.
And I have I don't see it hardly ever anymore.
It's lucky enough to grow it like ninety nine.
So yeah, it had that structure.
Oh, yeah. I mean, it's not that hazy undertone smell.
Like when you see like the seat bank, the cover of the seat bank,
it has that little knobs and points and like all this kind of stuff like that.
You know, but that time it's a weird smell, because if you don't know what it is,
it'd be really easy to think like it's probably going to taste like nothing.
But then you smoke it.
And to me, it's always like soap in a good way.
Like it's like a heavy.
I don't know, like a lot more thick than you think it's going to be based on the profile.
Oh, it's very palette coating all those real deep hazes that
they almost smell incense when they burn.
They really do. It's got that sandalwood kind of bite to the sharpness.
I hard to describe like what that thing is, unless you know it.
But I was associated with haze, the Hindu, which is like Baba,
like Baba has some of it a little bit.
And and then like here and there, there's just random ones that pop out.
Like Bodhi gave me a jar.
Let me see. He gave me this jar and he said it's a.
See if I can find it in here.
He said that it is a volunteer in his yard.
That was an artifact. One Afghani.
Wrong jar. It was an artifact, one Afghani, and then it got
hit with something unknown and it wound up being.
I love it. You can't see this at home, but there's just jars flying over here.
Boom, boom, boom.
So which one did you just pull out?
So I'm going to pull out this one that
Bodhi says has that some of that special smell when it burns.
This is that Bodhi volunteer with the haze undertone.
And so this is yeah.
He said when this one burns, it's got some of it, which is interesting
because you you can never tell who does it and who doesn't.
You got to smoke it first.
This flower structure reminds me more of something that would have that.
Right. Where it's a little.
Yeah, it's a little spinier sativa.
But yeah, that it's got a little.
Yeah. So so it's what it's moral to what it probably is, is his Afghani.
It's a volunteer. One of his crazy sativas.
You know what I mean?
So I can't like call which one of his sativas it would be,
but you can see the stack on it is very much like
like heirloom sativa, not
not commercially viable unless maybe for concentrates.
But like as far as for smoke, it's
it smells like it's pretty interesting.
I wish you could see this at home.
Like I can see you can see the airspace all the way.
You guys can try it out if you guys want.
Fluffy and light.
This is this is the epitome of kind bud to me.
Right. Like that light structure.
It's like you barely want to touch it.
Yeah. And like in the days when weed was more rare,
it'd be the kind of weed that when you got it, you'd know like,
all right, this is probably pretty good.
Or people probably wouldn't really be growing it because it'd be a pain in the ass.
So it's like, you know,
probably wouldn't really be growing it because it'd be a pain in the ass.
When you get a sack of it, you're like, oh, big, huge pillow pounds,
you know, and like, you know, hard to trim, but
it seems pretty neat to me.
So, yeah.
And that's the sort of stuff that's coming out of the hills
of like Kentucky and Tennessee and shit.
And I'm from the Midwest.
So that's we saw a lot of weed from the kind of Mid-South coming north
in the late, early to late 90s.
And it was those strains that they could grow because it was hotter,
longer season and we're coming out of exotic bags.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Longer days. And yeah, you can pull it off.
Yeah. And literally giant, just giant pounds.
It's like, how is that practical?
Yeah. Like you're bummed out.
You're like, oh, we got five pounds. Now you got two pounds.
The first time I grew animal cookies, I was like this plant, it's a pound plant.
Weighed it up and there was three and a half pounds on it.
Because they're just wax.
Yeah. The pounds are only like as big as a Nerf football.
Well, and to me, that plays a big role in how it smokes.
Right. Like weed is too dense and you roll it up into a joint.
A lot of times it won't be real good.
That was the animal cookies was one of the exceptions
where it was just so much of it was resin to where
it's like the resin was filling up all the nooks and crannies in between
where some really hard weed it grows so hard.
They can't even quite develop resin very well.
It's like too much vegetative matter, almost woody matter.
Yeah. It's like everything tried. The resin tries to grow.
There's nowhere to go. It's all nested and smashed.
But that was one of those ones where it was so resinous from the beginning
that you have a little bud like this and break it up.
And it's actually good.
But for the most part, weed like this is usually the real smokeable weed.
Yeah. Did he say sour over here?
No. I thought I heard somebody say like sour, and I was like, yeah,
I was going to say it's like like like sour diesel,
the way it's kind of not hard enough. Right.
A little bit. And it makes it smoke so good.
It does everything so developed, you know? Yeah, absolutely.
It's a joy to smoke it.
Burns smoother and like you can roll it a little looser without it getting weird.
And yeah, yeah, for sure.
Well, what super long flowering things would you want to explore?
It was like because you you have to like
like it's a commitment, right? Right. Yeah.
I got these seeds that a guy gave me from Brazil
and he got them from a friend of his.
Basically, he had a friend who knew
some guys down there who were like real heavy duty guys.
And like they're they're crazy, you know, like major, major guys.
And they had this one thing that they don't like let anybody get their hands on
because they want to like control the super high grade market in Brazil.
And I was describing some stuff I was kind of looking for,
like old white widow type smells.
And he was like, oh, I know a thing here kind of like that.
It kind of smells like paint, like spray paint or something like that.
And I was like, wow, that's a trip because because because
where I had it, where I was looking for it back in the day
that I lost was the white widow.
And I never got it to come back from the one white widow male that I used.
And I was always disappointed because they were all like train wrecking.
But I had had these females that were like ammonia spray paint.
I loved them.
And so I hadn't told him that.
And he was like, oh, yeah, yeah, this stuff.
And I was like, wow, that's a trip because white widow
supposedly is like Brazilian Indian cross.
So I've been what I've read and stuff.
And so I was like, wow, I wonder if that's kind of the Brazilian that was in there.
And he said, you know, it's super resinous,
has that crazy smell and it's super, super potent.
But they but for a long, long time, like he said, a lot of them are like 16 weekers.
But he said some of them are a little quicker.
So I was like, all right, if I can take those and grow them out,
and bring down that timing a little bit and turn it into like a 13 weeker
and keep that really good high and smell and look and everything.
It might be really cool.
And if and if that's hard to do, you can always do the hybrid and get the clone
from the middle ground that has what you want with a shorter time.
But still, you know, if you can't find it inside that one gene pool,
then hybridize it and look for the one that has what you want from it.
But the shorter flowering time,
which I feel like I've been doing for a long time,
the shorter flowering time,
which I feel like was kind of what Neville was going for with the Northern Lights
Hayes. Right.
Because like those original like pure Neville's Hayes are like 110, 140 days.
Yeah. Like and, you know, you wanted to grow them.
And we did. We grew them inside.
But it was like months and months and months.
And it's like it's amber and it's beautiful and the best smoke you ever had.
But it didn't have that market appeal.
People didn't quite understand it. Yeah. And you're like, dude,
I'm like two runs in right now and the weeds not done, you know?
Yeah, exactly. Yeah.
And the plants are like seven and a half feet long when you flowered them in a
foot. Yeah. Just insane. I think that's why these ones like the, like the,
all the, all the things that are the modern ones that are still around,
like he, like he pulled out.
I think that's why they're the ones that stayed around because it was like,
okay,
these have a lot of that high and they have some of the cool smell,
but we can actually manage them.
And then the other ones are really hard to get your hands on, you know?
Yeah. It's like semi practical. Yeah. Yeah, for sure.
Luckily though, now with the extract market,
we were talking about this earlier,
some of those strains that were kind of not really viable in some ways have
become viable again, because for, you know,
the extracts you can not go as long and still harvest them and get a decent
return, which, you know,
people are running short strains like crazy short amount of times before they
pull them out and wash them and smash them and turn it into something that's
fantastic. So, you know,
hopefully we start to see a resurgence to some of those things.
And there's a little bit less, I mean, there's a lot less in a lot of places,
but in general, there's a little bit less fear of,
am I going to pull off my crop or not? So it used to be like, all right,
if it buds for 55 days, that's awesome.
Because statistically you're less likely to get your shit taken or,
or, or, or, or popped. Right.
So now it's like, okay, this thing takes a long time, but what's,
what's trippy is like a lot of the fast flowering strains,
they flower for a certain amount of time and then they're done and you get this
much weed, but it's like a really long flowering strain.
A lot of times it gets damn near that big and then it keeps going and going and
going. So actually per day, per square foot, you're not,
you're actually getting a decent because you continue to get bigger and bigger
and bigger flowers. Some of those, some of those like, uh,
Hayes crosses the buds will actually get as big as your head
because they just keep going and going and going.
And so it's not like it's totally impractical,
but it was a lot more impractical when you were worried about losing your stuff,
you know?
Yeah, exactly. And Michigan we're, you know,
this is Bodie's artifact one crossed with a mysterious something.
It's really pleasant enough.
So yeah, people had to strike while the iron was hot in the winter and try and
get to run.
They hide everything and put it away and let their power bill come back down and
blame it on the winner for the high power bill to evade being caught, you know,
because two lights was a lot to run. Yeah.
A lot of different concerns at the time. Yeah. Yeah. That adds like a nice, um,
like the actual feel of the smoke is really nice. It's not,
it's got a real smoothness and like, it's like a, yeah,
it's definitely not like easy going, but it's funny cause those ones too,
you never know what the high is going to be on it. You're like, Oh no,
that was mellow and after a while you're like, Oh shit. Okay.
Yeah. That's just a pleasure. Really.
It strikes in the nose a different way. Honestly,
I feel like that's a really big part of this type of flower.
This is the denser flower we were talking about earlier.
It's kind of like vapory and steamy and smooth and you can just sit there and
smoke them and smoke them and smoke them and you'd be, you'd be all good.
It's like a light beer in a sense. Yeah. Right.
Yeah.
But a light beer that gets you like just elevated,
like caffeinated light beer or something like, Woo.
Yeah. It'll be interesting to see where the high goes on it.
Cause it's obviously got a sativa father,
but we have no idea what, what it is or which way it through. So
we might, we might not get high at all and we might get super ripped.
We might be lucky that we're nearing the end of the day here.
Either way, I'm going to be lucky to have to pack all this gear up when the
lights go down. It's like the saddest part of the day.
It's when I look over there and I'm like,
that's a fucking mess of equipment and I have to pack it all up.
Yeah.
I would like to take a moment to thank you peer for all of the hard work that
you put into all of this stuff to bringing it to people at home and elevating
the platform of all of these people because it's a lot of really great homes
from hollow flowers. Yeah, it's a challenge.
It's, it's amazing the amount of work that it takes and to see how well you
handle handle the, you know,
pressure of all of it happening and just sit back and make it happen and let us
talk about this stuff. It's great. Oh yeah.
I like when other people just start taking like when you guys start talking,
I'm like, I can tap out. You get a little break. I'm off. Hit the joint.
I wanted to say, yeah, that I just,
I think it's amazing what you've done and how close to what you told me before
this ever took off of like what you wanted with this thing and the fact that it
really is coming together and there's so many different voices.
It's like a variety of programming that you put out there and the content,
like super cool.
So, so what are you going to roll? What am I going to roll?
Um, this is what I pulled up to roll up right here. You want me to roll one?
From, no, no. From what you, uh, a lot of my stuff. Yeah. Um, what do I got?
I got some wild strawberry in here still I think. Uh, yeah, let me see.
What is this? The buddy stuff or what was this? I don't know.
That one was here when I got here actually. I think that's something else.
Is that Gary Payton? That sun grown Gary Payton from Willow Creek.
By the way, do we know what this is? This has been on here all day.
And I'm like, you know what it is?
It's a cue. It's like I said, it's a sap. Oh yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. That's awesome. Sweet. Yeah. Cause you were talking about Yucca.
I was just using Yucca and then he's like, well,
the cue, the cues way better than Yucca. Oh, a hundred percent. No, it is.
I will. I'll find out. I'll see. I'll see what I see.
But I was like, is it someone's like, man, like it's not like,
is it like an Aioli? Like was it someone's food? What was it for?
I wonder what the cue would be like on some.
So where do you do your cultivation? I don't, we've not been introduced.
So what's your name? We've never met, right? Yeah, man.
I am Jackson. Michael. Pleasure, brother. And, uh, I'm up in, uh,
I'm up in, um, Northern Mendocino County.
Oh, okay. Excellent. Yeah.
I had a jar of wild strawberry, but Oh, wait a second. Is that it? No,
it ain't it. So, well, it's a lot of this from other people.
Well, I had one jar of my own weed left. I thought,
but I think maybe I gave away, Oh, is this it? No,
that's the beauty of this event is all the trading and sharing and seeing
real tobacco.
I mean, not gone, but I mean, I do sometimes I don't, I don't really like,
I don't tend to, but like, like, like if I, yeah, like if I'm like at the,
at the ocean or something,
is it the tobacco you grew? Yeah. Yeah. So, so,
so I'm bummed that the first tobacco I grew out was the fucking Hopi,
like the shaman tobacco. Cause it's too strong. Yeah. I'm like, all right,
so next summer I want to grow it. So I have like 30 different,
were you planning to smoke it with weed? Yeah. Well,
one I want to grow somewhere I could like roll blunts with it. Yeah. Yeah.
And then other where I could put it in with the weed.
That one was kind of cool is you can just put a tiny bit,
you can just put a little tiny bit in your joint and there'll be like huge
levels of nicotine with very little flavor.
And it's actually like the best way because you're getting maximum,
you're smoking the minimum amount of tobacco. Right.
But you're getting the whole effect. So it's really better if you're going to,
so like a high THC weed. Yeah.
Except it'd be like if you were using weed to spike something. So it's like,
um, because,
because you mix. So like if you can just put a little bit in there,
it'd be like, I don't know. There's no, I can't think of any,
like any parallel with that where you could say, oh, that's,
I was going to say it's almost like if you were, if you were like using, um,
you want to,
you want a cocktail and you want it to be a certain
potency and you're like, all right, well we have this 11% schnapps
and we're going to pour this in there.
We're starting well.
And your whole drink is going to become totally different than what it was like
you, you went wrong with the schnapps to start. I'm just saying.
The 11 ounces of schnapps. I can't really recover from that.
11 proof I mean, 11 proof. So like imagine if you have like, if you have this,
uh, if you have this thing and you're going to put tons in there,
you're going to dilute it so much to get the potency. But with the real,
if you're going to smoke like spliffs blends,
if you take the really potent tobacco, you just put in a little bit,
it'll hardly change the experience and the smoke and the flavor and everything,
but you'll get that lift off that you were looking for from the tobacco.
So it'll,
so with nicotine, like when I used to smoke,
I fucking hated that I smoke because it made me feel like shit.
Like I was all like, yeah. And uh,
I feel like with that so high nicotine,
is it going to like blow me right into that zone of just like,
this is a terrible nicotine high.
That's the trick with all drugs though, right? Is the dosage. So, um,
that's like, I like, I've,
most people who have tried smoking tobacco, if they've like tried it once,
and they're like, Oh, that shit was, it was so unpleasant. Like, it's like,
you might, you might take one hit and it's too much. Like now you're,
you've actually,
you've actually technically overdosed because you're,
it's more dosage than you wanted. Right?
So it's like if you eat edibles and you overdose, you're just like, fuck,
you get dizzy and you get stuck and you can't get out of it. And you're like,
fuck, I shouldn't have eaten 500 milligrams or whatever. Right. But
when I put a label on that,
yeah, but what, but, but the thing with,
with tobacco is that I think a lot of times when people are trying it,
a quarter hit might be an overdose.
So like if you're smoking weed and you just take the tiniest amount of
that potent, potent tobacco,
and you just try the tiniest amount and see if you get the heck change from it.
And then you'll know what your proper dosage is because you might be taken,
you might be taken a hit off of tobacco and all of a sudden you're in the one
hit, you're getting tons of doses.
And now it's like that one hit is like eating the thousand milligram edible and
you needed the 12. So like you naturally, your,
your experience is going to be like, Oh fuck, tobacco makes me feel bad.
I'm like greened out and I feel like I have to lay down and I'm sick and stuff
like that.
Yeah. So cigarettes, I hate smoking, but like in weed,
I love tobacco and uh, and, but then it's like,
then I want to grow my own. So, so what,
so with weed it doesn't make you feel bad. You're saying it's more just straight
tobacco. It's enjoyable. The two of them together give me like,
that's all I like them too. Yeah.
But what tobacco did you grow at home?
This one is that this is like what they call Aztec tobacco or wild tobacco.
It's um, it's uh, it's called a sacred wine dock.
And um,
I actually grew these in four inch pots and I didn't transplant them fast
enough and they flowered like this tall and I just watered them to get to finish
out the seeds to get the seeds. And I was like, well, better to look next time.
So, um,
these plants,
I just let them die until they got dry and the pods split.
And then I just pulled the leaves off that were just all sun dried and destroyed.
So they're a little bit more mild and they were like not big,
healthy plants. So naturally I think they were more mild anyway.
So like even though this is like a little stronger than cigarette tobacco,
but um, if I grew it well, yeah, yeah. A little bit. I mean,
I've only tried it a little bit, but yeah, it's, it's really nice.
Cause with tobacco you really want to destroy the chlorophyll, right?
And so it, it, cause the plants died,
they actually just dried on the vine and I just pulled off the leaves and they
were already color cured, you know?
Can I smoke a joint where you mix that in?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like what?
No, no, no, no, no. I mean I heard the whole thing. I'm just, yeah,
like I kind of made up my own rules myself. I don't know what's the back.
Yeah. So don't do it.
Yeah. Yeah. That's fine.
Many years.
I handed you the weed.
Oh wait.
That I had. I realized I thought I had a jar of wild strawberry, but I gave,
Oh, maybe that's what it is. I'll bet it is.
Oh,
is this it?
Okay.
We're wrapping up.
They're wrapping everything up, huh?
All right.
Do you know Paul?
A little bit.
How you doing?
I'm doing just great. Hard day, hard day's night.
Strawberry jam.
All right. My hands will be shot. So I should probably,
I don't want it. I'll probably have to use a grinder on this.
Do you have a grinder?
So are you psyched to move?
Just hold it. I'll be gentle on you.
Come on. Come on. We got dead air, man. We got dead air.
Tell jokes. Uh, no, I think it's cool that you're, well, it's,
it's interesting because
I'm hearing more people moving out of Oklahoma, which I just find interesting.
There's a big rush there. And I think the people that are showing up just kind of
went there. Um, I think, um,
they're running from something and trying to go somewhere else because there's
new greener pastures.
But I think everybody's making the same move at the same time. So
it's, it's going to just,
I'm looking to really forward to be back home. I'll say that. And,
and I think that the sooner people get there and realize what's going on,
they'll, they'll probably look to be springboarding into the next,
springboarding into the next decision as well.
Right.
It's an interesting market.
Although California is just depressing.
California is just depressing, but I, I would almost rather be in a depressing,
like are any of your friends happy right now?
Yeah. I mean,
not about, uh, the weed price,
but there's other things to be happy about. But, uh,
I have my health.
Yeah. I mean, if it, if it was wall street,
we'd be jumping out the window basically, but we don't work on wall street.
So it's not the same kind of hit when you work on wall street and you all of a
sudden you're not getting any money.
Like you better be fucking bummed out cause all you do is get money.
It's the entirety of the existence. Right. Right. But like in the woods,
you're like, all right, okay. Try to figure it out, you know,
and do all right. But, um, you know,
luckily a lot of my friends like have good positive mindset and they're just
like, all right, we're going to figure out what to do. But you know, it's still,
it's very stressful and depressing and you know,
like it's, it's not a good time.
I think overall in the, in the, uh,
hills up there.
The show is on.
They're running, they're running the trim machine.
I think it's like, uh, all the people like that are over leveraged.
They're so stressed. And like for those of, I don't know for anyone,
like cause I'm, I'm feeling okay. Like, cause I don't have that,
let like leverage I do like taking care of stuff. So I don't know.
I just recently been saying, I don't have to, I get to with anything.
Like it's not so rough.
It's still like get to live in the woods and grow herb and like do everything I
always wanted to do.
It's the difference about being on wall street. So you know what I mean?
Those guys are trapped in this whole scene. You know,
we have a passion for this plant. So no matter what the price does,
no matter what, we're still going to have our passion.
And we're still going to live in the woods and we're still going to have,
you know, just keep on keeping on.
For sure.
It's just like, I think for a lot of people it's like how tight,
even if they like this price cut in half or something and they're like, okay,
if we can make this pencil, but then is this stable?
Cause I think that's where a lot of people are at. They're just like,
how can this go any lower?
Well, I mean look at tomatoes. They can go that low. Yeah. Yeah.
You know, it won't, but I mean, at a certain point you gotta start thinking,
how low can I go before I feel like I'm not serving myself or what,
you know, serving the plant and the scene much
in the corporate takeover has not made it easy for a lot of folks who really
have the passion for the plant. You know,
it takes a lot of the authenticity out of it.
So it's cool to be here and roll the cup,
seeing everybody together.
That sounds amazing.
You know, I'm really happy to be here and seeing everybody.
Wait, so are you, are you already moved? No. Okay. So you still have to move.
Yeah. I'm going back there and I'll be, um,
I'll be going back here soon.
Yeah. We need to catch up.
That's all good. We're just sitting here. Don't take it up.
You just spend significant amount of time in SoCal
and you got to tell Michael and those guys to accept every sponsorship idea I
have. I mean like you guys need to spend money so we can do this event.
And everybody will love it.
And they'll thank you.
I can do that.
I know they're an amazing company and I wouldn't come back.
Follow my heart and to work with Michael Klein and the guys over at Bio is
definitely going to be a springboard into the next
part of my life.
Yeah.
Yeah. I'm remembering my conversation. Yeah. We talked,
it was like different soil mixes and like what are the goals of each and kind of
what does the soil scientists go through or like the formulator essentially like
you know, you gotta have trade offs. You gotta,
it's a very extensive process.
They opened their company and they did research for about six years before they
actually started selling. So there's a lot of R&D that went behind the scenes.
And they're really just doing the good work.
I'm wondering if I opened that and drank it, if whoever's it actually is,
would like, are they going to come back for it?
Cause it looks so good. At first I thought it was a beer and I was like,
that would be amazing.
Yeah. Which I would totally drink right now.
I realized that we might get in trouble for trying to smoke that.
I said we might get in trouble for smoking that because of the
by the time they're like,
I always, I always smoke outside.
We'll be like it was those guys right over there.
That's an essence now.
So is that,
is that what you would grow more of as like the tobacco you'd mix or do you
want to explore new stuff?
I like to have them all, all the different ones, but I'm saying you, you,
so what, what, what different tobacco varietals did you grow up or do you like,
or do you want to grow up?
I've only grown a couple or a few. I've only grown like three basically.
The one that I, that I grew the most was this one,
this Jamaican one that was originally from the South Southern States.
Like it was like a South Carolina or something.
And that's like a big cigar tobacco and it's potent,
but would it be a rapper tobacco or I mean it's what they call fronto,
you know, it's, it's, it's that kind of, it's like perfect to be the rap.
I kept asking people, I was like, is fronto a specific,
it's just Jamaican, it's just a Jamaican term for, for,
for tobacco in Jamaica. Okay. But it's,
it tends to be a certain type because it's Jamaican tobacco, you know,
and, and usually smoked like with weed or they call it grub.
And uh, it's um, you know, big,
big beautiful, like it's like the same when it's cured perfectly.
It's like the color of like a football.
You look at it and it just has that color like that, you know,
it's really nice. And then, uh,
I grew one from Bodie that he gave me that was from the, uh,
when he went to Maria Sabina's gardens in Mexico, it's still like,
it was hers and it still grows there. And he got seeds of those.
And I tried those and those were like really mild.
Like there wasn't enough nicotine in them.
And then this one,
let me know when you're settled back.
And we'll hang and scheme scheme on that other stuff too.
Cause that with that space, I'm finally ready.
Mr. Audio engineer.
Hey John.
All right. So should we wrap it?
It's the big wrap up. Huh? Yeah.
See ya. Um,
yeah. What time did they close last night?
I feel like we left here at 10 last night or something.
No wrapping. No wrapping. Yeah. Fuck. Yeah. You guys,
then you come do this. Then you come sit here and,
uh, all right. Well that was Emerald cup, I guess.
We're making it a wrap. I like that. Does everybody support that?
Yeah. I'm weighted up. Yeah.
So you're, so what did you listen to any of the other, what, so your,
your panel today, what, uh, can you give us the cliff notes?
I've always talked about,
we, uh, basically it was, it was, uh, a lady from up by me who does like,
um, uh, Katie, she does like breeds for high THC V.
So she was saying she'd hit like, or maybe it was bio vortex said it,
but she hit like nine and a half or 10% THC V, which is like,
there's not a lot of stuff like that.
Like the only one I've smoked like that I think was like 8.5 or something.
This guy gave it to me and I was like, Oh,
I'm going to check this out and I smoked it. And I was like, damn,
that looked like just some real mild, mild, like I didn't have a tolerance.
I was like, I want some real mild lead. I'm grabbed it. And then I like,
the guy had given me like a printout of the different strains and the
percentages and stuff is from his lab results. And, uh, I was like,
Oh shit, this is the one that's got whatever 8.5 THC beer or something.
And it was like just this really not, not like Houghton looking.
You would imagine it just didn't look that resinous. I'm all cool.
Small time and I was like, Ooh, Holy shit. Like I was just like,
fine. You know, like you get that, that kind of rushing high. And I was like,
I don't know if that's just the THC beer or what, but, um, but, uh,
she's got it up there way higher than that. And then, uh,
she was just talking about selecting males and stuff. And then, uh,
I talked a little bit about some,
a little bit of work I'm doing with Lyme and Cherry Lyme and that kind of stuff.
And then, uh,
Todd McCormick told kind of his little bio and talked about some different stuff
and, um, and, uh,
talked a little bit about like Hayes and different old school stuff a little bit.
And then, uh,
bio vortex asked, uh, Ed Rosenthal about, um,
different aspects of his book and what was new and that kind of stuff.
And he talked about his book a bit and, uh, it was pretty much just, you know,
like not a real, um, not a deep dive, but it was pretty cool.
You know, it went off good. And, uh, I went over and got a,
and got his new book.
It sounds like it's got some pretty cool stuff in it. Cause it's not,
he kind of compiled it. He said it's like 12 people, you know, he was like, yeah,
it's all like the newest stuff. I'm like, well, I'll read it.
I always try to read everything, you know, you know,
be interesting to see what's in there. And, uh, that was the,
that was kind of the whole experience.
What was the most influential book on you?
Marijuana Botany or Emperor wears no clothes.
Cause that was the one that like made me like, okay,
I want to learn about weed. And then I, that meant without it,
I probably wouldn't have found marijuana botany. That's interesting. You know,
so it was the Frank Rosenthal growers guide for me.
It was the first one I had access to and you know,
my father's original copy with the pages falling out top level.
Just, you know, what a legend.
Yeah. Yeah.
Was that just them saying it's time for everyone to leave? Probably. All right.
It's time for us to leave.
Well, special thanks for from Royal ground radio to future cannabis project.
Freeborn selections. Thanks for being here. Like appreciate you guys.
Yeah. Thanks John. Everyone who joined us. We appreciate it. Quiet, John.
Thank you for sitting with us.
Final thoughts?
Let's let's go to sleep.
2021 in the circus for two days.
All right. I'm going to kill that, but I appreciate it.
