And we are live.
We are live, all right.
Thanks for joining us everybody
for an evening of aquaponics.
That is me, Peter Savitar, Future Cannabis Project.
And I am going to pass the mic off to Steve Reisner.
So Steve, take it away.
Thanks for having me, Peter.
I haven't seen you since, I guess it was,
was it Dragonfly's thing or was it at the Emerald,
or no, the Regen, Regen.
It was, yeah, up in Humboldt.
Yeah, awesome.
At the Dragonfly, our Dragonfly getaway.
Oh yeah, well, thanks for having me on.
Today we've assembled a whole wide range
of different commercial aquaponic cannabis producers.
We have quite a diverse range of different methodologies
and ideologies on how to approach the problem.
But all of us are successful,
have companies that are,
or head growers of companies that are, you know,
leading the way in their particular areas.
So we thought it'd be really cool to have everyone on
and educate people more about the topic
and just the diversity that we have,
even within our own community.
So we have Tanner Stewart from Stewart Farms.
How you doing?
We have Bain Howard from Vertica.
Hey everybody, thanks for having me.
We have Leanne, our chief cultivator from Habitat Life.
Hey guys, thanks.
Thanks for having me on, Lane.
And then we also have Marty of AP Meds.
He also is my co-host over
on the Growing with Fishes podcast.
How's it going everybody?
All right.
So we thought we'd first jump right into it.
First off, what is your methodology on growing aquaponics?
And you know, how do you have your stuff set up?
So I guess we'll let Bain go first
and then we'll go on to Tanner.
Yeah, sure.
So I'm located here in, I guess, Southeastern Oklahoma.
I actually really recently just took
over this farm a few months ago.
And currently the methods we're using at the farm,
we've got some plants going in deep water culture.
Primarily our moms that were growing up,
vegging and taking clones off of.
And then we're starting to phase in some more dual root zone
into that system, but that's a work in progress.
We're still building on that.
So currently everything's vegged in the AP pools
and the deep water culture.
Then we transplant that, bring it out into pots,
into containers, and then veg it up for a little while,
get it used to the transition
and then take it and flower it from there with our AP water.
And then we make a few little amendments onto that
before it goes onto the flowering plants.
So that's kind of the quick and dirty
of I guess how they move through our farm.
And we're kind of using a whole conglomerate,
a bunch of different methods right now,
but it's working for us.
Yeah.
All right.
Tanner, why don't you tell us about your farm?
Yeah.
So I've been in the indoor vertical aquaponics farming game
for about six years here now.
And originally my background comes out
of nutrient film technique format of aquaponics farming.
So I did closed loop,
a completely coupled closed loop system
for about three years in the leafy green realm
with spinach, kale, arugula, Swiss chards,
pretty much the leafy green world.
So there we practice nutrient film technique
on a completely closed loop system.
So that's where I kind of came from out of food.
But now as we move into the aquaponics realm
within cannabis here,
we're located in St. Stephen, New Brunswick here
right on the border of Calais, Maine.
It's kind of a cool little town here
that you look across the river
and you're looking right at the United States.
So we're looking forward to when we do some outdoor growing
that's probably where we go across the border there.
Eventually, sorry, I got on a tangent.
But yeah, so we are now moving into a living soil system.
So we're starting out living soil fed by our tilapia system.
We're actually doing a top feed irrigation system.
And then as we progress forward,
we're really gonna be examining
what's going on with the living soil
and what's the only aquaculture nutrient base
then transitioning, looking at a dual root zone system.
And then also we're gonna be digging into
some more of the comparisons on deep water cultures.
So we're gonna follow a little bit of your path, Steve,
as well throughout our journey here
as we launch our initial flower at the door.
Awesome.
And you and the end both have a vertical type farms, correct?
Yeah, so yeah, so everything we're doing
is gonna be ending up in a five story
fully automated vertical farm.
So everything we're doing right now on phase one
is all really a data point to feed in
to exactly what we're gonna do
on that next automated vertical module
and the platforming, of course, from about five years.
I was with, in my previous endeavor,
doing a 12 story vertical, not automated.
You gotta be automated.
You need to be automated.
That's one of the rules in vertical farming.
The robot, move the plants around.
So.
And Leanne, I understand you have quite a nice vertical farm.
I know you've sent me quite a few nice pictures.
Tell us about how you're set up.
Thank you, I appreciate it.
So me and the Habitat crew,
we have a micro cultivation facility out in Chase, BC.
We use a coho salmon as our fish species
and we are a soilless facility.
So the way it works is all the water from the salmon
is going into our water treatment room.
There it's going through a digester
that then we end up sending to our cannabis plants.
Very cool, and you do vertical racking as well, correct?
Correct, so right now in our setup,
we have two levels high and we have the middle opened up.
So we're just going up on scaffolding
to look after the top racks at the moment.
All right.
And Marty, tell us about your grow and how you're set up.
Well, I used to have a medical grow here in Southern Oregon.
Then after legalization, I got shut down
and had to move again.
So I'm just getting set up again here.
I got a test system online and I'm working on building out
a design that I can replicate for medical growers in Oregon
that all want to run their 48 plant count.
Try to make something that's a little cookie cutter,
if you will, and put that together and be able to do that.
And so just getting ready to finish
the first harvest on that.
And yeah, pretty excited about that.
I run just a Koi and Goldfish.
So nothing fancy on the fish side.
They're pretty much just nutrient machines
and microcultures on my end.
Awesome.
So how many of you guys here have actually grown
with other methods that aren't aquaponics?
Oh yeah, for sure.
Living soil, segregated planters, yeah, just pots.
A number of different ways, allegedly,
early in my career.
I actually got started doing veggies and did quite a bit.
We ran the first farm I was ever a part of,
had a little bit of aquaponics.
I was doing deep horticulture lettuce.
And then we had about a half acre out back
that we would do kind of your living soil,
no-till kind of organic cultivation, just row crops.
And we'd do corn and cabbages and kale
and kind of whatever was seasonal.
And then we'd do a little bit of the wetland,
corn and cabbages and kale
and kind of whatever was seasonal.
And then we ran door-to-door basket delivery service
where you could, we'd take orders from the community
and build out baskets and go out and deliver those.
So I did a bit of soil growing here in that phase,
but after that first year or two,
it's been pretty exclusively aquaponics after that.
Yeah, I've been going in reverse.
So I started in the garage with the eight by eight by eight
module in the first thing,
working my way out to organic soil farming.
So I'm kind of doing it backwards,
but I feel like it gives me a good base.
We're actually working on a nice little,
small scale outdoor grow this year.
And we're gonna be running that full organics.
Hopefully we'll be able to get some fish amendment
out to them towards the end of the season as a pop-up,
because we're just getting our fish seeded
in the system here right now.
So what we're doing this year is we're putting,
popped a bunch of seeds and we're doing a hunt basically
to see what will work really well
here in Southern New Brunswick,
in kind of this very humid North Atlantic region.
So hopefully we find some real winners,
but that'll be our big disclosure.
It's coming up here right away.
Soil cannabis cultivation is how I first
got started with cannabis.
So I was doing that for a few years
and then it was my mother who actually ended up
having some koi and we were taking the water from that
and feeding it to the plants,
which we found some really good success doing that.
And from there we ended up transitioning,
got tilapia system going,
which we played around with for a few years,
which we did have the dual root zones and soil pots,
and then eventually ended up developing the new system
that we're using at Habitat.
Very cool, very cool.
So those of you got,
so it seems like everyone kind of has some experience
with both.
What have been the big differences
that you guys have noticed with the aquaponics
versus your experiences growing other crops in soil?
I mean, I would say like veg growth speed
is probably the one that I would point to.
Like it's a glaring difference for me
that I feel like you can see sort of across strains
and different growing methods in comparison.
I think hands down, I could say,
even though it's probably mostly anecdotal experience,
it's probably like going on six years worth now.
And every year I grow in different methods
and I still feel like aquaponics grows the fastest
and in terms of veg growth,
always seems to outperform everything else.
I would completely support that.
We see very, very, very explosive growth
during the veg stage.
And one thing that we've also really been finding
is the amount of trichome production
as we dial the system in more and more
is also better than anything that we were producing
before we got into aquaponics.
I would agree with that as well, yeah.
Absolutely, I've also noticed a big difference in terpenes
when we've done all of our controls.
We haven't had a single,
at least I personally have not had a single control
where we've done soil versus aquaponics
and not had a higher total terpene level.
It seems to be a huge, huge difference
and particularly certain terpenes in particular
without getting into some deeper data
that definitely seem to be expressed more.
And we've also noticed an increase in expression of CBD
as well as THCV.
There's some methodologies that I've developed
working with a group in Colorado
on an increasing THCV expression using aquaponics
to amplify particular stressors on the plant,
as stress responses on the plant
that are kind of hard to do
without that type of organic environment.
And notice incredible increases in pretty rare terpenes
and cannabinoids as well.
So, and I know that there was a group
from Green Relief Incorporated
at the last Aquaponics Association Conference
that we're dropping, had a whole presentation
on DWC only, media bed only and dual root zone
and showing the terpene comparisons
and the cannabinoid comparisons.
And it was quite interesting.
So, there's a lot of interesting data
and there's a white paper coming out on that
about aquaponics through the,
I don't remember the name of the university
that's working with Green Relief up there,
but it's been a while since I've worked with them,
but there is a university
that's actually putting out a white paper
on exactly why it increases terpene.
So, that's something to look out for later this year.
Yeah, so a big difference I've noticed,
I mean, as the others have stated,
would definitely be growth speed.
I think that's most easily visualized,
especially in the DWC by root growth, especially.
I mean, we just see roots blow up and bit,
we put a new batch of transplants
in some deep water culture dual root zone pots.
And I mean, within 48 hours,
they're poking through the bottom of those pots
and just running for the aquaponic water.
So, I mean, those, I haven't seen growth rates like that
in any other method that I've used before.
Yeah, I feel like you can tell,
and like when the plant starts taking up water from the bed,
like you can come in the next day and be like,
don't have to water that plant anymore.
Oh yeah, it's like, oh, there it goes, found it.
Yeah, absolutely.
And for instance, right now,
currently in our greenhouse here,
I'm currently working with Organic Innovations.
They're in Oklahoma.
If anyone's interested,
you can find out more information on them,
on Instagram, they're Organic Innovations, okay.
If you're wanting to find out more,
but their main business model with aquaponics is clones.
And then we also do flower,
but clones really pay the bills around here.
We can generate 30,000 clones a week
out of our thousand square foot greenhouse.
And we only have maybe five and a half thousand square foot
of actual bed space, you know,
and we can generate incredible numbers.
Right now, depending on the strain,
we're averaging between 1.8 and 2.3 inches of growth per day
on our, in veg, on our plants in there.
We don't have everything completely dialed in yet.
I think we can even do better than that.
We don't have all of our KNF inputs
that I wanna get rolling.
So, and then I've also found that,
so on average you get about twice the growth rates.
You can veg plants in a much faster time.
And then you also get an increase on speed in flower.
I've noticed that some strains can be anywhere
from five days to even, you know,
two and a half weeks faster
on the longer flowering strains.
I don't know, have you guys noticed an increase
in shortening in flowering times?
I grew, I think it was Starfighter OG,
my last outdoor run before I got shut down
in Central Point.
And it was, so the aquaponics system, Starfighter OG,
all, I think there was three plants
in the outdoor aquaponics system
and four plants in the living soil beds
and all three of them finished sooner than the other one.
But that's the only one that I've done
at the same time in the same environment.
You know, so only one current grow that I can confirm
that happened at the same time and flowered sooner.
But, you know, I've done that with other plants as well.
Elderberry bushes, grapes, strawberries,
a number of different things that, you know,
traditionally you wouldn't expect to see fruit out of them
in the, like, let's say the first year you plant them
and on all of those we did across the board.
So, and from cutting too.
So it was, I feel like it's something that I've seen
in other plants as well.
And partly because when I first started out,
people were like, oh, you can't grow those types of plants
in aquaponics.
And so, you know, a certain part of my personality
is, you know, is like, are you sure you're challenging me?
And so I think I grew broccoli and cauliflower
and watermelon, Steve shaking his head like,
oh yeah, I remember that.
And so we grew all kinds of cucumbers,
things that you traditionally, you know,
are told not to grow, including cannabis.
You know, one point in time, there was a lot of people
that would advise you against growing cannabis
in aquaponics.
And it's kind of the reason why Steve and I
started the podcast and, you know,
was just to at least have a voice that says,
well, you know, you kind of can,
and it'd be pretty good actually.
Yeah, I'll go ahead, I'm sorry.
No worries.
To date, we've found taking our strains
the full 60 days, that's where you really get
that extra expression of the trichomes, cannabinoids,
terpenes, as mentioned.
But where we are really saving time
is we're coming right down from our genetics room
and we're kicking over the next day.
So we're not needing to wait to give them that extra day
from being stressed, given that they're coming
from an aquaponic system in the genetics room
down to an aquaponics.
So compared to other scenarios where you'd be waiting
one or two weeks to let the plants recover
and be ready to go before they come over the flower.
I think that's really interesting because anymore,
I won't take a plant from outside and even repot it
and put it into a dual root zone anymore
and try to like expect to get top quality out of it,
no matter where it comes from.
Or how I repot it or what I mix it in,
I always find that a clone or a seed
that started in an aquaponic system
finishes better in an aquaponic system.
I've not figured out, I've transplanted probably,
I don't know, I would say 15 different strains
from other sources into aquaponics
and then flowered them directly.
And it's always been the same result,
which is that the next set of clones after that,
after the mom was in an aquaponic system
and then clone seems to perform much better.
You're missing those microbes.
And in fact, you know who the original person
who first, as far as I'm aware,
is the very first person to write
about aquaponic cannabis anywhere is actually Breeder Steve
who they just had on the Future Cannabis Project.
As far as I can tell, having done a lot of homework,
he was the first person to put anything in writing
around aquaponic cannabis way back in 1997 or 98
on overgrow.net way back in the day.
And I remember reading some of his really early stuff
and then didn't see anything on it, couldn't find it.
And then I found someone who reposted like an archive
of overgrow.net or whatever,
and actually found that some of those really old posts.
And it's just interesting to some of the other people
that are out there also, that are well-respected
also enjoy aquaponics,
but don't really get the chance to talk about it.
But he's someone that I definitely like to touch base
with occasionally because he is the first person
to work with it, the first person to write about it
in terms of anything on the internet that I'm aware of.
He had a great episode on the podcast, really enjoyed it.
Oh yeah, learned a lot of cool stuff.
Yeah, for sure.
So what about economics?
With aquaponics, we have a whole bunch
of additional revenue streams.
Why don't you tell us about some of the different
additional revenue streams that you guys have
with the aquaponics that maybe you wouldn't have had
if you were a soil grower?
So for ourselves, we're doing coho salmon,
which right now at our micro facility, small scale,
but we're able to sell that to the local markets.
So that's very exciting.
The way the licensing worked for us was,
we had to get an R&D aquaponics license to start
to be able to get the coho salmon.
And it was about a year until we got our official license
from Fisheries in Canada.
So now in the summer, end of summertime here,
we'll be able to officially start selling our coho salmon.
So very exciting.
That is a revenue source that we would not have otherwise.
It's very delicious smoked.
I like it.
It's sashimi grade as well.
A little sushi for lunch.
Have you made infused salmon yet though?
Unfortunately, our license will not currently allow us
to do that, but that is something that we're looking forward
to doing in the future when we're able to get
the right licensing to be able to play around with that.
But in your backyard though.
In your backyard though.
I wanna touch on that one topic real quick
before we keep going is that a lot of people aren't aware.
So meat processing is federally regulated
and the inspectors are federal employees.
They cannot legally set foot
in a United States cannabis facility
as a federal employee working for the USDA
for the meat processing
because we're technically scheduled one still
if we're doing THC.
So you cannot actually get a license to kill your own fish
in any currently legally in any States.
You have to work with either a university
or a third party meat processing company.
You can't actually do a complete vertical.
And it's one of the areas that is kind of a weird quirk
of the legality and something that people
just don't think about.
I know I've written two separate grant proposals
for two different universities
for them to make mobile trucks
that could actually provide for one in Oklahoma
and one in another state
for to provide a service for those people
because there's a need for that
and they can't legally apply for a license.
Yeah, we're all good here in Canada, Steve.
Oh, I know.
All good, man.
Yeah, no, we,
when I was running our food facility out of Edmonton there,
we sold a few good batches,
more than a few rounds of our live organic
black Nile tilapia to the Asian markets
in Edmonton and Calgary.
So, there'd be times,
our fish farm wasn't that big for the facility,
but there'd be every few months,
there'd be a about a week where it was our fish
in all the most banks and around the city.
And we were getting a great price per pound live.
So, very convenient thing to, you know,
help offset, you know, worry of processing
is if you have a live fish market.
And so, in our location here on the border of Maine,
we're actually six hours from Boston,
nine hours from New York.
So, it gives us really good access
to even larger Asian markets down there.
And, you know, when the economy is running normal,
that people will eat lots of fish from the live markets.
Yeah, so it's definitely been a major component for us.
And I've always taken the approach from day one
with aquaponics, like when you talk about the economics,
it was really never a question for me
on whether or not you should be building
a profitable fish component within your business.
You know, you can go in, you know,
like Habitat is got that same mindset on the salmon side.
You go in and you get that into a net profit position
and even though the revenues from that may pale
in comparison to, you know, the price per gram
in some great flower, you still want a net positive
on your nutrient factory.
And then it's not a drag in your business.
So, I think, you know, that's an important thing
for a lot of aquaponics people to really dive into.
And that's gonna, what's gonna drive that
is your market, right?
And it's not really the fish,
it's not necessarily the fish you wanna grow.
It could be, you know, it could be the right fish,
the right fish for the right market.
And if you choose the wrong fish in the wrong proximity
and you've got processing issues or transportation issues
or licensing issues, like in our case here,
we had a tilapia is a foreign fish.
So we had to do a environmental impact assessment
so that they would make sure it wasn't an invasive species.
Luckily, black Nile tilapia are from Egypt and like Nassar.
So when the 28 degree fish jumps
into a 10 degree East coast river, it's instantly dead.
So there's no harm.
I was just gonna ask,
was your environmental impact study just a tilapia
and a cube of ice that you took out of the freezer?
Here's a tilapia in January in Canada.
Yeah, no, we just put it in a tank
and slowly turned down the temperature.
That is a complete joke.
In case there's any animosity.
But it does work sometimes.
Yeah, that's really nice.
I ran up against that doing a running tilapia
at a commercial lettuce grow.
I was a part of down in Texas
where we had to go through the whole environmental impact
and Texas Parks and Wildlife and the fisheries guys came out
and they're checking, make sure you have three points,
three locked points of entry between the fish.
This wasn't even cannabis where they were checking in
on medication or product or anything like that.
This was people checking to make sure our fish
were under locking key and secured.
Oh yeah, and I mean, when you get into certain aspects
of animal husbandry and food safety,
it gets pretty crazy pretty quick.
Like when we're shipping across the border,
we need a veterinary checkup like every quarter
or whatever it is.
So, and that's to keep us certified to be shipping stock
across the pond.
But then when you get into,
when you have a sizable enough fish farm,
and this is something that we're like super excited about
because when we go up to 200 metric tons a year, right?
And even on a smaller scale,
no matter how big your fish farm is,
well, it's gotta be at least a certain minimum size,
but you'll get lots of extra solid waste
out of that fish farm that you're not using
and you're not passing on to all your plants.
So we're just excited about taking that 50 tons a year
of excess solids off of our farm.
We're designing an off take off of the CO2
of our fish system.
I believe Habitat does some of this as well
to help feed into our rooms.
So if you're really balancing your whole system properly,
you can pull that CO2 off that fish manure
and then you can take that fish manure,
you can make another compost tea out of it
and feed it back into your system
or just dump it outside in your outdoor grow,
which would be just as good.
That's really cool.
That's the first I've heard of anyone using
mineralization for CO2 generation.
That's very cool.
Is anyone else here doing something similar to that?
I worked on a project in Colorado where we had,
we used troughs where we had the fish tanks
and we had them in kind of long runs
kind of like you would for trout.
And above that we had oyster mushrooms
that were in kind of little cabinets
that were hanging above the fish tanks and compartments.
And we had CO2 sensors that would vent the CO2
out into the grow as it would build up.
So the humidity from the fish tanks
would provide the humidity we needed for the mushrooms
and the mushrooms would provide the CO2 for the plant.
So it's really cool to hear you're doing
a whole different way of CO2 generation
using the aquaponics and optimizing it.
That's a really cool thing.
Is anyone else doing anything else similar
or any other revenue streams that you guys are doing?
So yeah.
Sorry, go ahead.
So Tanner, you are, we're correct.
So in our mineralization room,
we have a pipe from our digester
and as well from the air that's coming out
where we're aerating the water
to send that over to our flower room.
So we've seen some really good success
with capturing that CO2 and designing our system,
figuring out how you can get everything that you need
from the fish system.
And we're really getting that dialed down.
Very cool.
And it just goes to show you,
you can do all different types of cool things
with aquaponics that maybe you can't do
with a traditional greenhouse.
Do you guys want to talk about as well,
the advantages with climate control
and how the water acts as thermal mass,
especially we have two people up in Canada.
I know I've done a commercial
or a small commercial aquaponics cannabis grow.
We did a 50 by 30 by 18 foot greenhouse
when I was with the aquaponics source
with one of the licenses with me and another employee there.
And we were managed to do a whole fit,
that whole run through a whole winter
with just 87 pounds of propane,
just enough to heat the water.
So do you guys want to talk about that
and how the thermal mass from the aquaponics
can give you huge advantages,
especially in cooler climates?
So far ourselves, we have not tapped into that yet.
To date, we're using a chiller,
but it is something in a new design
that we are taking a very close look at,
as you mentioned, how to take advantage of that.
So that's something we're digging into at the moment.
Yeah, like, you know, on our end,
this gives you this massive opportunity
for really, really intelligent water management
within your whole facility.
I mean, that's one of the,
and you know, it doesn't matter on small scale
or large scale, but you just have more water to capture
or deal with.
One thing that we're looking at,
and this is as we phase our farm out
over the next couple of years,
because you know, our first phase was 10,000 square feet
of 100,000 square foot building.
So the nice thing is because we phased it out,
we'll kind of get to improve this as we go forward.
But you know, how do you pull the extra water
off your condenser and, you know,
either push that into gray water or it's condensed water.
So it's a completely neutral pH as well, right?
So can you purify that?
Can we put it back into our fish tanks?
Do we just turn it into gray water?
Could that be used as a, you know,
as a item to control your pH
if you don't have great water, perfect water
coming into your system?
So for us, it's all about, you know,
how can we move that water around?
The neat thing about where we have our tilapia
output calculated to feed our vertical racking system
is that it'll actually require 10% freshwater changes
for the fish per day, you know, up to even 15%
versus where tilapia doesn't need a ton of freshwater.
So they would actually be happy
at about 5% freshwater changes a day.
So I kind of took it off into a tangent, Steve,
just like water design and where we're putting it
and what we do with it.
But yeah, I mean, that's one of the funnest things
that I like about aquaponics in general
is we've got places to put things
so we can get rid of the waste, right?
I've had a great luck hybridizing
the geothermal and then with solar water heating
on heat exchangers for heating that.
But yes, absolutely.
And there's all, again, it just goes to show you
there's all different ways that you can use that water
in order to benefit your plants
in ways that, you know, are still doing it
in an organic kind of living soil.
And one way I would wish people would think of it more
is don't think of it so much as, you know,
organic hydroponics, think of it as aquatic soil.
You know, it really represents that,
especially when you look at the biodiversity of it.
You know, NASA did a study a couple of years ago
where they were trying to figure out which microbes,
if we go to Mars, do we need to bring
to do mineralization for plants in an aquatic environment?
If we're gonna bring fish
or we're gonna bring some kind of aquatic creature
that we're gonna farm for food,
and we're gonna grow it for nitrogen production
to feed plants, what microbe package do we need to bring
to have, you know, full mineralization
for all your different plant essential minerals?
And what they did is they went and they did a DNA study
where they took samples
from a whole bunch of aquaculture facilities,
aquaponic facilities, a couple of nearby properties,
and then soil.
And they actually found that, you know,
the most diverse soil wasn't even within 168,
or was the, I'm sorry, the aquaponics was 168%
more biodiverse in terms of number of different species
than even the most biodiverse soil was.
So, you know, when you're strictly talking about,
you know, biodiversity and stimulating
that plant's immune system in ways that,
you know, that are not necessarily pathogenic,
it really helps, again, increase that terpene expression.
Because remember, the plant is just making,
you know, defense mechanisms and things going,
hey, this is in the environment,
I should probably prepare for that, or this and the other.
And it's also where you see people fail too,
when you see people, you know, switch over to cornfields
and other things, and they don't prepare
for that kind of stuff.
And then you do see them with these outbreaks
that you see with a lot of these hemp fields and stuff
that people that have done that.
So we kind of show you the two ends of the extremes
of that, but we didn't have a thing.
The thing that, and you just kind of touched on,
I just want to throw in here that excites me
about all of our abilities with aquaponics
is to really play with the microbial expression
through the fish manure via the input into our fish.
So basically designer fish diets
to influence the microbiome of the fish
and how are those microbes expressed
into your living water?
And then the path to, well, am I creating new stresses,
new microbes, new bacteria culture, right?
Have I changed the diet enough to create that stress
that you're after in that turf or that cannabinoid?
And that's, you know, gonna take a while to figure out,
but we can play with that through the diet, right?
And 78% of the microbes in the soil are, you know,
can also live in aquaponics and vice versa in aquatics.
So I really do think with more research
with these aquatic microbes,
you're gonna see a lot of them being transitioned
over into the soil realm and people using them to,
you know, you're gonna see more things like mammoth pee
or more things where these isolated microbial chains
are going to be, you know, more and more common
and kind of, there really is an area for growth,
both in research as well as, you know,
economically is probably a few billion dollars in research
and the, you know, mineralization
with natural occurring microbes.
So in the aquatic environment,
because everyone focuses so much on the terrestrial
and not really so much in that direction
in terms of specifically plant boosting stuff.
So, you know, there is a huge realm, you know,
if you're just getting started in college
or something like that,
or you wanna get into the industry
and you wanna research microbes,
or you wanna find something that could be profitable,
that there's a whole industry that just basically
has maybe 1% of the research has been done to date on.
It just hasn't been done to date at all.
There's no industries out there that are focusing on it.
And, you know, it really is an area
that just needs a lot of research.
You really hit that on the head, Steve.
That's exactly our methodology
without the system we put together
is how can we get the water that our salmon's producing
to be everything that plants need to thrive on.
So very well said.
So would you guys then, like,
cause I understand, you know,
altering the food in order to, you know,
and change the diet of the fish
to change the nutrient profile.
So would you switch your food in the flowering phase
to be something different than the veg phase?
Or how would that work?
I would do full life cycle strain comparisons, right?
Cause I think in an aquaponics or a live feed setting,
and if you're trying to compare a single strain
and its performance from the baseline to your comparison
when you change the fish feed,
at least initially, I think it's gotta be, you know,
through the whole life cycle of that plant on one feed.
So do your steady eddy strains for many good runs
where you know consistency in them
and understand the microbial culture
that's driving that, right?
Then bring in your new fish feed,
measure what's happening there,
and then run those same strains through
with those new cultures,
and then start seeing the differences and tracing them.
So I had the pleasure of doing some research
with the, back when I worked at the aquaponics source,
and we actually did a whole bunch of different fish species,
and we looked at the nutrient breakdown of their waste
that we sent off for,
and it really comes down to,
it really comes down to, you know, protein.
So the higher the protein percentage,
the more you're gonna get converted into nitrogen.
So if you're looking at,
if you're designing a very large scale facility,
you would wanna do predators and carnivores
or more carnivore heavy stuff for your bedrooms,
and you'd wanna do omnivores and more, you know,
herbivores or herbivorous fish for your flowering rooms,
because they're gonna tend to put out more potassium,
more phosphorus, and those types of things.
So, and what I do, my systems, when I design them,
and Bain does this,
because he's actually worked under one that I've designed,
we actually design it so that you can shift the fish tank,
so it'll be open or close a valve,
and suddenly we can change how many fish tanks
are going over to that one greenhouse and whatnot.
So we can have, you know,
dial in exactly how much nutrients are going
into that system based on how many fish tanks
are going in there.
So you can really do a lot with that,
and I'm sure you guys do something similar as well.
Well, I'm sure that,
because I know not everyone is closed loop, right?
I think there's quite a few drained to waste or whatever.
Oh, getting delivery, yay.
Nobody brings me a cake, I'm jealous.
Oh, nice.
Anyway, so yeah, I think that it just kind of depends
on what your system is.
I think that when you have a closed loop system,
you have a couple more concerns than if you're doing
a drain to waste or drain to feed or whatever,
decoupled, whatever label you want to put on it,
you know, they all end up a little bit different.
Is anybody else doing a closed loop besides me and Steve?
I think Bain is, right?
You're quiet there, Bain.
Are you still muted?
There you go.
Oh, there, hey, I think we're,
yeah, so we're closed loop.
All of our deep water culture and the veg is one closed loop.
We do pull off of that for feeding some of the flower stuff.
So there it's open in a way and we're topping off
and exchanging water, but for the majority of the time,
it's running closed.
That makes sense.
There was a question in chat asking about, you know,
soil and aquaponics.
So myself and I believe Bain and Marty also both use
dual roots zone aquaponics.
I'm not sure about Tanner and Leanne,
but I know that we do something on dual roots
zone aquaponics.
So basically we'll use this beer bottle here for example.
All right, so imagine the bottom half where the beer is,
is where your hydrogen would be.
So, or lava rock or gravel.
And then the upper half here would be soil.
So we do living soil on top of that.
In fact, I just posted some pictures on my Instagram.
We had a mushroom outburst in our greenhouse.
We use mushroom compost and we had mushrooms bursting
out of our pots all over the place in the greenhouse.
It was really cool.
But anyways, so that living soil actually provides
all your terrestrial microbes,
a place for your mycorrhizal fungi
and your other plant beneficial terrestrial microbes to live.
And then it allows those roots to grow through the bottom
into that flood and drain layer.
And we separate them with the burlap
or other root permeable cloth and allows again,
those roots to bust through while holding that soil up.
And we found that that really gives you the most level
of control, at least in my opinion,
a little bit of an edge as far as nutrient control
and dialing things in.
And then again, you get the best of both worlds.
We find that typically there's fewer incidences
of mold and mildews as well as fewer incidences
of pest problems and also for anchoring.
So when you're putting them directly in the beds,
if you don't scrug them right away with the net cups
and things like that, they can be quite floppy.
So by putting them in the pots, it gives them enough weight,
especially if you're gonna do an outdoor project
on a home grow, the weight of the bottom,
especially with the wind and things like that
really helps keep them stabilized.
I don't know if Marty or Bain wanna talk
about their experiences with it.
Yeah, I totally agree on the dormant
and having to help them with weight a lot.
I know I've struggled a couple of times with it,
exactly like you said,
you don't get the net on them right away.
Once they sit on top of those boards for long enough,
as you all know, they grow so fast
that they'll just take off, get real top heavy.
And then if you've got them in the converted lettuce boards,
like most people are running them in,
they don't really have a lot of bridges.
Yeah, I think that probably like support wise,
cause I've grown both ways,
both in dual root zone and not in dual root zone.
And you can check them all out on my YouTube channel
at AP Meds going back I think five years now
or something like that.
But yeah, I definitely had an issue of,
when attempting to train plants to a strong net,
for instance, rather than the plant bending like this,
the entire plant, it would pull itself sideways like this.
And so it wouldn't do the same thing to the plant structure
and get exactly what you wanted.
It was just a plant that was leaning over sideways
and not getting the change that you want
in order to get a strong net.
So it definitely helped in that sense too,
because the hydrogen was just too loose.
And then also growing outdoors,
the wind, even a small amount of wind
could blow a plant over that was just sitting in hydrogen,
especially once they get five feet taller.
So they can catch a pretty good sale.
So the dual root zone pot really helps
have a solid base to it and keeps it
from completely tipping over inside the media.
And I know there's lots of other successful ways
to do it as well.
Do you guys wanna talk about Tanner and Leanne,
how you guys do, because you guys are a little bit different
but your stuff works.
I know Leanne, I'm definitely salivate
over your pictures regularly.
You're muted there, bud.
Unmuted now?
Hello?
You're good.
We're good, awesome.
So yeah, we're using neon print discs.
So that's how we actually, when we take our cuttings,
we end up propagating with those in our cloners.
And then from, we take them downstairs
and right now we have rafts
that we have holes drilled into them
and we put those directly into the system.
And you are correct, we do get trellis up right away
and we end up having a couple of layers
to make sure that those plants
get the right support for them.
So I could see being in a soil scenario,
definitely gonna have more developed support,
but the roots, they do explode in that water
and you're gonna find a lot of support that way as well.
But you got big, heavy buds.
One thing I would also suggest is even if you're gonna do
DWC, don't do a plant with a really long veg
because what'll happen is even if you support it
with the net and we've tried this,
we did like, you know, tried to do a summer run in DWC
in a greenhouse, the weight, the physical weight
of the whole thing will actually push itself down,
you know, the stock further and further down into the water
and push the net cup down in,
depending on how quickly it is,
but, and what size you're using.
But again, if you're doing a normal run,
like on a commercial production,
you never run into that problem.
You're only gonna run into that if you did a, you know,
a full summer run or something like that.
But yeah, we've found going in with plants
that we either veg a little long or came down
as large veg plants, they did not end up flowering
as well as ones that are around that eight inches
coming down, given that you have such explosive growth
there, it's really the right size.
And doing that, we're doing vertical as well.
We're working within a four foot space.
So we're not growing really tall, large plants.
We're growing them in a tight space.
You have anything else you wanted to mention there, Tanner?
Yeah, no, we're heading into this
in a living soil status right now.
So we're, everything we've got potted up right now
is all of our mother stock, right?
So what we've been doing is basically pheno hunting here
for the last four, five, six months now.
And, you know, we've got our Royal Cushes built up,
you know, we got some LA Pure Cush, Hollywood OG.
So all of that is coming in and living soil right now.
And we're gonna move all,
we're gonna build all our stock like that.
And then as we turn our system on,
we're gonna be feeding the aquaculture nutrient top feed
to the soil here just in the early days.
And, you know, but we've got our one grow room set up
with four solenoids, one per table.
So we're good for complete top irrigation.
And we can drop to a bottom feed, dual root zone,
you know, quite easily as we explore different mediums.
But we're, you know, just happy to be starting
in the full living soil experience
because that's really what we're aiming for on the,
you know, on the outdoor as well.
So it's a good place to start with our strains.
And, you know, as we sort through them,
we're gonna kind of know where they need to go.
But we're looking for stout plants, right?
Which is why the Royal is a pretty good plant.
It's fat and droopy and, you know, it's coming in thick.
So, you know, we're looking for those plants
that we can go vertical with.
Awesome.
Yeah.
And again, there's lots of different ways to do it.
And everyone has different ways that work for them.
You know, it's just what we, you know,
we all find that the methodology that works for us.
And again, with aquaponics, you know,
there is a lot of different ways
that people design their systems and look at things.
So on that note,
let's talk about a little bit about minerals and microbes.
So we had a question from Chad,
if I use saltwater aquaponics to feed seawater first,
to break down salts,
will there be enough ammonia to grow cannabis plants?
I guess the easy question for that would be the fact
that you have a high level of sodium.
And unless you did a huge flat with a ton of mangrove trees,
you're not gonna be able to absorb enough sodium
to actually do much of anything.
So, you know, you could absolutely aquaculturally
raise your own seaweed off of a reef tank
or something like that,
but you know, it wouldn't really be profitable
in any kind of way or, you know,
honestly worth all the labor.
So we have, so let's talk a little bit about
any other pros or what are the downsides
that you guys have found in aquaponics?
Or maybe some of the learning curves
that maybe were more difficult than you were expecting?
For ourselves, I don't know if I was unexpected,
but so I grew up raising cattle
in an agriculture background.
So I had a very much a farming background.
When we started up,
we really had to be on top of the system.
Sometimes you get alarms at two in the morning,
you had to be ready to respond to say,
the pump wasn't working right
or something got clogged on you.
So that was one thing fortunate that we put in our system
is we did have all those alarms
and we had a good crew that was able to make sure
that we got up and were there to tackle the problem
and people close to the facility.
Cause there was quite a few scenarios that we went in
and if we had left it for 36 hours,
the scene would have not been so good.
And as well, when you have that initial startup
in our aquaponics system,
when you're going through your nitrate ammonia spikes,
you're really gotta be paying attention
to your water quality.
We were able to get through
without having any big losses of our fish,
but I know if you weren't on top of it
and paying attention to your water quality,
that is something that could happen very quickly.
Yeah, I definitely agree with that.
And I could mirror that,
what you said it was starting up the system,
having somebody there who's able to check on pumps
and check through the night
and make sure it doesn't run for 12 hours
with the valve shut that should have been opened
at the end of the day is huge.
And being able to stay on top of your water quality,
just like you were saying during the startup
has been a big learning curve
and something that's gotta be taken really seriously.
Yeah, even human error.
I've heard of some large systems
that somebody will go through doing some cleaning, et cetera
and leave a valve open,
walk away and all of a sudden all your water is gone.
So it's really stuff you gotta be on top of,
make sure you got good SOPs and checklists
before you leave the facility
to make sure everything's running correctly
before you're shutting the doors
and everybody's not in there for a little bit.
Yeah, somebody forgot to turn the generator on.
And floor drains, floor drains are very important.
Floor drains, yeah, floor drains.
For when the flood does happen, have lots of flood.
They will happen.
It will happen, it will happen.
The important thing is to make sure
it doesn't build up enough to get into the electronics.
That's the important part.
I'm getting all my floods out of the way before the fish.
I flooded it, getting it started up.
Always set a phone timer when you turn on a pump.
That's always big.
Don't stare at the plants too long
and think you've got time to get back.
Well, there's always something
if you try to walk around the farm
and do a full 360 or something,
you know, something's gonna grab you.
So me having the alarm set on the phone,
I've got a variable, you know,
how long did it take to fill the IBC?
Okay, that's my 15 minute timer.
The big fish tank is 30 and so on and so forth
for come back around and check on that pump.
And the camera, the fish cam.
Fish cam is very important.
You look at the fish cam, you see the fish, they're fine.
Yeah, when we started, we started,
because we were running a completely closed loop system,
which I'm glad I did because it really gave us
that complete understanding of when you're doing that,
when your water is just doing this,
like all day between the fish and the plants,
which is a good way to cycle the water through your system.
So you're always moving water, you know,
but you're making sacrifices
and you're just trying to do this continual dance
between your fish farm and your plant production side.
So, you know, coming out of that, you know,
that's why we're landed in the more of a decoupled,
you know, a decoupled system where you're, you know,
you've got your fish farm and your nutrients
are coming over into your system
and you've got a little more fine tune control
and you can keep your temperatures perfect
between your two systems.
But yeah, those are some pretty tough days, you know,
when your pHs were going up and down
between your fish and your plants, right?
Yeah, I learned that.
To also definitely make sure you set a timer there
at the early stage of our facility,
you'd be filling up a barrel,
you get distracted by going to do something else
and all of a sudden your barrel starts being over full
and flooding everywhere.
And that as well, very good point on the backup generator.
So we actually knew that there was a Canadian
winter storm coming.
So we tested our generator the days before the storm
was supposed to be there, fired up, everything worked well,
but we did not check all the fluids.
So come the day when we were correct
and the backup power went down,
the generator wasn't firing up.
So luckily we had the needed fluid on hand,
but it took us about 30 minutes to get that thing fired up.
So backup gens and make sure you're checking
all your fluids as well.
Oh yeah, absolutely.
And that's something that's extremely critical
for aquaponics systems because if that system goes down,
everything dies, most commercial sized systems,
you know, you have maybe an hour
before you're going to start losing fish
without a backup generator.
So, you know, making sure you have a, you know, gas power.
And if you're doing really big scale, you know,
gas turbines can be really good
because you can get that hot and cold off of them
aside from the power as well.
For those of you that are looking at that, you know,
very large scale and want to have
that onsite power generation.
So on the topic of minerals, you know,
one of the things that I've noticed, especially I, you know,
I'd also on a separate note run a nutrient dosing company
where we do consulting for all that stuff.
The nutrients that you need to get really good flour
in aquaponics are way lower than hydro.
You know, your potassium levels, your phosphorus,
your nitrogen, and it really is, you know,
from those microbes, the same way it does in living soil,
where you don't need to have those super high levels
of hydro nutrients, you know,
by having those lower levels from those natural inputs
and those microbe inputs work like little syringes
and doctors giving you, you know, syringes of nutrients,
getting directly into that.
And it does make a huge difference.
And especially, you know, we don't have to flush them.
So you guys flush your plants as one example
of the lower nutrients.
I don't flush personally.
I've never, I mean, I guess it kind of depends,
like I stopped feeding.
So I think that there's so many different ways
that people define like what flushing is,
that it can get a little construed.
I think just people do different things
and describe it the same way.
And then a lot of discussion happens.
It's not really like effective, but yeah.
So some people describe it as just feeding nothing
but water the entire way through,
like the last couple of weeks of flowering.
So if you're doing hydro or something
where you're feeding a lot towards the end,
then I suppose that makes sense.
But obviously in aquaponics,
there's not like much of a way to turn off nutrients
and not have them in there anymore.
But you also never have the high concentrations
of nutrients that you would be trying to flush out anyway.
So, or your fish would just die.
I think that's probably like the simplest version
that I can break it down to in the way that I look at it
is that, yeah, you can,
if you're talking about flushing
as not feeding very many nutrients towards the end,
then yes, I try to cut my feed down towards the end.
I definitely don't feed any nutrient teas towards the end.
And I try to basically just let them finish
without increasing the nutrient profile in my system.
So I guess yes, in that way you could consider it flushing
because otherwise people that do live in soil,
you'd be like, well, I don't feed anything
but water the entire way through anyway.
So am I just flushing the entire time?
So I just think that a lot of wires get crossed
when you use the term flushing.
So I think that I tried to distill it down
to reducing the nutrients that are available to the plant
late in the flowering stages, if that makes sense.
So on the habitat set up, we're doing a similar methodology.
So our EC is bounces between a 0.9 to a one
that our system, but given that we do have
the decoupled system for the last 10 days there,
we end up not sending that to the flower room
and we're just topping up what they're consuming
with fresh water.
But we do have more trials to run
to be able to hone in on that more.
Yeah, I'd say our method is very much in line
with kind of what you said, Marty.
We don't so much flush as cut back on peas
and different things like that
so that our plants are just receiving aquaponic water
and not any of the additional things
that we would kind of give them through flower.
Yeah, and from our perspective,
you know, on a living soil, kind of nutrient soil,
subsidized medium with aquaponics water,
same thing, we're trying to just reach that balance
of where the plant's gonna take all the nutrients it needs
in that pot, plus what we top it up with
at the appropriate time, right?
For the best punch.
Awesome.
So what metrics are you guys testing for regularly?
Maybe there's a better, that's a real good question.
So me personally, we test any farm that I work with,
we test every other week, so every two weeks.
And then once everything's totally stabilized
and we know the strains that we have,
then we can cut back to once a month.
But we find that really gives us the best ability
to really fine tune our nutrients.
How often are you guys testing and what are you testing for?
So for us right now, we are testing all the macro
and micro so that we're able to understand our system.
And as we were discussing earlier,
the aquatic soil that we're developing
and the ways that we're able to refine that.
So we are testing very frequently all macro and micro,
and then as well, watching the results
that we're getting in our system
to see what little tweaks we possibly could make
to continue to improve and advance from there.
Yeah, and from our perspective, it's everything.
It's nutrient profile in the soil at certain points,
the EC going in from the water and the VPD,
and the exact amount of times it's been watered.
I mean, we're just gonna really do our best
to be capturing all the variables.
It's not very hard to do, right?
You know, it doesn't take a very expensive system
to really data log everything that's going on
in your room on a per strain basis.
So we're leaning towards a live monitoring, right?
Right now, while we install our system,
we're just writing everything down 50 times a day
and using multiple different pH monitors.
I got like 11 of those $10 ones that you stick in there.
The two prong you jam it in the soil.
Then use three of them to make sure that they work,
because if all three of them are the same, they work.
Yeah, only then can you confirm for sure.
Yeah, you got to triple down on those, yeah.
Yeah, so we're, like you said,
water's kind of everything for the aquaponic farm.
We'll do our full panel tests every two weeks.
So that's all of our macros, our micros,
and then we'll add a silicone.
Yeah, there it is.
Yeah.
So convenient and cheap.
Steve, can you actually bring that back and show it?
Can you bring it back?
Yeah, I can get that three-way to the side.
I'm gonna put a meter promo in here.
How much are you getting paid for that, Steve?
All right.
It's awesome.
It's got pH, light, and moisture.
Well, like I said, you need to buy them in threes.
Kind of.
Yeah, it's good too.
It's nice to check the moisture in your soil
if you're not sure, right?
If you're not sure that top three inches is,
moist, right?
Yeah, if you can't figure that one out,
you better get the meter.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, so we'll test our water
for the full panel every two weeks,
and then we'll take the little API dropper test
to it for ammonia and nitrate,
just to kind of keep a pulse on it every other day.
And then, of course, we've got pH monitors
that are constantly data logging and set up to alarm
if anything kind of crazy goes on.
We run the Blue Lab Guardians
and do us pretty good on that front.
You can have them set up on the phone
where you can always check in on them
whenever you get to worry about the fish
in the middle of the night and go, oh my God.
Okay, all right.
They're doing just fine.
They're comfortable.
Yeah, I should mention on the raising salmon side as well,
they do require a very tight water parameters.
So making sure that we're on top of ammonia, nitrate,
their pH, and their water temperature.
Salmon, you got to keep that up 14 to have healthy growth.
So that's something that we're constantly monitoring
to make sure that we're raising those awesome salmon.
So what type of electronic monitoring are you guys using?
We were all talking about that just before this.
Are you guys using any particular systems
or what different types of ways
are you guys monitoring your nutrients?
Like as far as real time.
Yeah, for us, we're using digital water temp readers,
pH readers that fire to some other panel
that send out alerts to us.
I don't know the name of the specific system
because we ended up using a couple of different things
to direct people.
But yeah, it's something that ends up
if our pH happens to get out of whack
that we get a email on our phone.
Yeah, so I mentioned earlier,
we're doing the Blue Lab Guardians
are the ones that we're currently running at the farm.
A couple hundred bucks a piece.
So they're a little pricey
if you're going to get a whole bunch of them
to screw throughout the farm.
But I think it's worth having
because they have an app that's at least decent
at getting you connected to a phone or computer
and bouncing that back.
So you can always kind of check in on the system.
Yeah, right now we're looking at a few different options
but honestly, one of the easiest to use
and simplest option is that you can look,
first we're getting started anyways
is a Trollmaster system.
They've got all the brain
and the Wi-Fi transmitters and the sensors that you need.
And you can overlay that.
It's not only a sensing system,
it's actually your control system.
So we're actually combining our controls
and our sensors basically into one, right?
So like our heaters, our humidifiers
will all be run off of the same system
and that's how it'll be pulling our data log in.
And then similar to Lane,
using blue lab like sensors in the water
and in all the grow rooms.
All right.
So what are some of the different questions
that you guys get from when people find out
that you do aquaponics?
I know one that I commonly get is
does the cannabis taste like fish?
Or does it taste fishy?
Or does it taste like fish food?
Yeah.
Yeah.
What are some of the other questions
that you get all the time
and maybe the answers to those questions?
I get kind of the inverse of that one a lot
is that if you eat the fish, will you get high?
So I guess that's the other side of that coin.
I don't know.
That seems even weirder to me,
but I definitely got that.
But both seem kind of ridiculous, I think.
Like, because I think they're joking
and then I laugh and they still want me to answer.
And then I'm like, no, really though,
can I get some fish?
Yeah.
A lot of people like ask me
if we're feeding the fish weed, right?
So that's probably what they're thinking.
Yeah.
Or I guess maybe like one of the ones I get all the time
is like, do I have to,
why do I have to put anything in besides fish food?
Like, why can't I just eat my fish?
It's probably another one I get on a regular basis.
Yeah.
People not understanding that there's more
to fish nutrients or plant nutrients
than just what fish eat.
Fish biology was not designed to grow cannabis plants, right?
So unfortunately, as much as we may miss that.
Yeah.
We limit like aquaponics to fish a lot,
but I think worms do a significant amount of work,
at least in my system.
And I've always kind of used it too.
I have worm bins, like red wigglers
and worms in my bins that provide
a lot of the other nutrients besides nitrogen.
And so, I kind of feel like they,
the fish get all the attention
and the worms do all the work
in all the different ways.
So, not that they aren't great or work together,
but there's a, at least in my system,
the worms pull a ton of weight for sure.
Hey guys, this is Tom.
I have a question for you.
What is the end destination
for all of your aquaponics weed?
Is it all gonna wind up as flower
or are there other ideal product,
topicals, concentrates?
And like, would you grow special strains
if you knew it was gonna be used to make hash,
even if you're growing it, making it hydroponically?
Yeah, so for Habitat, right now,
we're only able to produce flower
and that's in Canada.
We sell through the shelter market
with our current license.
But we absolutely do look to get into developing strains
for concentrates here in the near future
that we're able to get into doing the oils,
rosin, hash.
And what we wanna do is really keep everything we're doing
as close to the flower and the full profile as possible.
Yeah, for us, you know,
we're really gonna let the strain dictate
if it goes into flower
or if it is gonna go into a good pre-roll,
but we're looking for really greasy, turpy strains.
And that's gonna make it decide where it goes.
Alongside our flower launch,
we're working on infused health and wellness products.
So we got bath bombs is a thing
that the Stewart Farms has been doing for a while.
And so we're looking at that, some massage oils,
and that's just something that we can get out to market
quick while we're sorting through our genetic library.
So, you know, our primary focus in the flower rooms
is really just, you know,
hunting through the library of great stock that we have
and deciding where that goes.
But, you know, definitely, you know,
also trekking towards a really nice cannagar
because I'm a big cannagar guy myself.
And if we can get some nice rosin infused cannagars
out there on the Canadian market, you know,
we're in the process of figuring that out right now.
So.
Are you gonna end your night with a bath bomb?
What's that?
Are you gonna end your night with a bath bomb?
Well, probably.
You're gonna have some alone time with the bath bomb
and the cannagar?
Well, I mean, the commercial rights itself,
and it's a,
Yeah, for me as a medical producer,
maybe I don't know if anybody else is here,
everyone else is,
nice background you got there, Steve.
You know, ours is a little bit more tailored
to meet the patient.
So, you know, some of them want or need a full plant extract
like an RSO made,
or like a full plant extract.
So, you know, we're gonna have to figure out
how to do that.
Like an RSO made.
So, you know, we facilitate that to get made,
or some of them need a tincture, you know,
where it needs to be extracted
and then put in the specific doses
and then combined together.
So, you know, it just kind of depends a little bit more
on the patient first,
and then everything above that, you know,
is all the overhead,
and a lot of times gets, you know,
either distributed as additional flour,
or, you know, a lot of times when the patients
will already be making extra of something,
like one patient will have extra gummy bears
and they like to share whatever and however it works out.
So in the medical world,
it's a little different than just marketing products
directly to the end user.
But I would say probably most of it gets consumed as flour
or put into some sort of edible slash medication.
So I guess a little bit of everything.
Not a lot of bras and not a lot of pressing
getting requested in the medical world.
I guess I'm not sure why that is or what,
but that's I guess the only thing
that I could really say about the medical market
is that it's a little bit more specialized
to whoever you're dealing with.
So here we at Organic Innovations in Oklahoma,
we take, you know, 70, 80% of it,
all the stuff that's easily trimmable pretty quickly,
that all goes to flour for flour sale
and the rest goes into concentrate.
Occasionally, you know, we'll grow some stuff
that's a little more airy specifically for concentrate.
But I think that, again, you know,
you kind of grow for concentrator, you grow for bud.
You know, if you're gonna primarily lean your market
towards one or the other,
unless you really split your production,
because, you know, the cultivars are gonna produce,
you know, ultra heavy production for resin,
for concentrate, and you might not necessarily be ones
that you want to have super dense buds
because that's gonna have a higher chance of mold,
especially with the fact that we do have
a higher humidity than normal.
We don't really like to have those super giant,
you know, I don't wanna have maybe something like a God bud
that has like an arm size bud,
because, you know, that can cause us
a little bit more issues.
Not that we have that many problems using probiotics,
but, you know, you wanna reduce your chances of problems
to begin with.
So again, I think that goes back to,
and I know that plenty of other people
have talked about that topic.
I know I've heard Frenchie talk about that topic
at least 30 times.
But, you know, you kind of need to decide
what you're going for one or the other.
But in general, I find that most of the aquaponic people
are growing for either that high end concentrate
or for the high end, you know, more connoisseur,
boutique flower, because it does have
a very different flavor and a more richer flavor
to the smoke and also burns very cleanly.
I know quite a few people have talked about that
in the past and breeder Steve was just talking about that
on your channel about a week ago.
Yeah, I mean, I totally agree, Steve.
Like that's what we're, you know,
we've got two different kind of focuses.
And the reason we're doing our outdoor sift
is to find that greasy strain that we know
won't need to go into flower,
that we hopefully can do a good hash extract off of,
you know, that holds its, you know,
might be a good yielder and then have something
to potentially press right into a solventless extract.
But, you know, and then the indoor
is gonna be focused on the higher quality.
Definitely.
I'd say we do a little bit of everything as well.
At Vertica, we're located in Oklahoma.
So we were able to fully vertically integrate
and have licenses to cultivate process
and then dispensary license as well.
So when we're growing our bud,
we really have the outlets to do just about
whatever we want with it.
Obviously the Primo stuff is getting trimmed up
and goes to flower sales.
Our lab's coming online right now.
So there is a portion of our stuff
that's getting kind of reserved and set aside for that.
We've done a little bit of business
with a couple extractors here in state.
Apothecary extract is actually putting out
some of our flower really soon.
That'll be available in our dispensaries
from some of the stuff we produced in the aquaponics here.
So we're excited about that.
But to answer the question,
it is a bit of everything.
We've got some stuff that's going flower,
some for extract and so on and so forth.
So let me ask you guys this question.
Why would someone, or what is your opinion?
Everyone here is a pretty experienced
aquaponics cannabis grower.
Why should someone that's maybe doing soil right now,
consider adding aquaponics as part of their grow operation
or switching their operation over?
You guys all have experience
doing quite a few different things.
Why should someone switch if they're currently,
have their stuff figured out
and they're doing their own thing
the way that they've been doing?
Well, if you-
Go ahead.
All right, I'll go.
So I think that if you've already got your stuff figured out
and I would just say to grow a small system next to it
and make comparison and see for yourself,
because I don't, out of everyone
that's actually taken me up on the offer of doing that,
it has never gone back,
I guess is probably the easiest way to put it.
So I think that other than some living soil people,
I would say, combine it, we'll add stuff to it.
But I feel like the terpene expression
or probably just overall genetic expression
is greater in an aquaponics system,
especially if you're doing indoor or like hydro,
because you have so much little microbial pressure
that you just don't get the same amount
of genetic expression that's triggered
by the same diversity of microbes.
So I think that,
if you're not willing to take the step
of putting in a system and comparing it yourself,
like maybe you start studying someone like Elaine Ingram
or someone like that,
that can help you understand the importance
of like nutrient density, not only in food,
but also cannabis for growth and health and yield
and all those different things.
Sustainability, water use,
it kind of depends on what you're comparing it against.
There are a lot of advantages
depending on what you're comparing it against,
but it's got a lot of sustainability.
Definitely quality, I think is way up there.
We've talked about terpene and cannabinoid production.
Steve's talked about increased CBD
and other types of cannabinoid production.
I just think that there are a lot of upsides to it.
If you really want to talk about production value,
I think it's extremely forgiving method of growing,
especially if we talk about watering.
If you're trying to teach a new person how to water a plant,
it can be very difficult to do
as opposed to an adult root zone system,
or even just a straight aquaponic system.
It goes in and it just takes up as much water as it needs.
You can manage the system as a whole
and not worry about any of the other things.
I'm not worried about a newbie
that having to learn how to water a plant
because it's much more difficult.
I think it all depends on what you're comparing it to
and what aspect, because there's a lot of advantages.
Those are the ones off the top of my head.
Those were some great points.
I'd say if you're really looking to push the limit
of what's possible, aquaponics,
it's like we're just scratching the surface here
and there's so much to learn and so much to improve on it.
And the results that we're already seeing
and the benefits you can get with very small inputs
when the whole systems are together is just fantastic.
How big is the aquaponics ecosystem in agriculture?
Like, is it growing exponentially?
Is it lettuce farming?
Is it everything?
What's the current state of aquaponics outside of cannabis?
Go ahead, go ahead.
Sure.
Currently, aquaponics is expanding rapidly.
In fact, thanks to the current global pandemic,
it's really seen a surge.
I know most of the aquaponics companies that I'm aware of
that do vegetables have seen at least a two-fold increase
in customers across the board.
And that's been really good in terms of people
that want new systems or need support for their systems.
So that's been a booming.
But in terms of commercial,
it's mainly lettuce and leafy green production,
nitrogen-heavy plants.
Because honestly, up until maybe five years ago,
there wasn't really the high-level research
that had been done to do flowering crops
and to support something that's heavy feeding
as cannabis or something like that.
And some of the other nutrient levels
and other nutrient importances
that were maybe completely overlooked
when it was first done just for lettuce.
Because lettuce doesn't take hardly any nutrients to grow
versus cannabis, which takes a lot of nutrients to grow,
which we all know.
So developing that,
and I always had the pleasure of working
for the aquaponics source back under Sylvia Bernstein
when she first owned it.
And we did a lot of research
under how to make aquaponics systems more profitable.
What plants can we grow?
What medicinal herbs?
What can we grow for profit?
And what types of things can we do
to make it more profitable?
So we were able to do a lot of different types of research
with different mycorrhizal fungi.
We did a lot of cool research around how to grow Osha root,
which is a almost exclusively wild-crafted medicinal herb
that we were able to grow at quite a large scale commercially
in a greenhouse year-round.
Because we realized that it has a very water-loving
mycorrhizal fungi that actually loves aquaponics,
but you have to seed the microbe from a wild population.
So we went, found a place where there was some Osha root,
gathered the mycorrhizae, seeded it into a wicking bed,
and we were able to replicate those conditions
and actually grow a plant
that is almost exclusively wild-crafted.
So there's a lot of potential for aquaponics
to be able to provide ability
to grow a lot of agricultural crops
that aren't traditionally able to be profitable.
There's a woman that I know,
it's in Italy, that's doing saffron,
and she's getting four flushes a year of saffron, okay?
And she's putting the bulbs right next to each other
in media beds, and who thought growing saffron
in aquaponics to be profitable?
But there's a lady in Italy that's making it profitable.
So there's a niche market for a lot of these things
because of the accelerated growth rate
and other things that you can actually make a profit on
if you can find essential oil-producing plants
or other plants and spices or medicinal herbs
that are used for it.
I also know in India, they use it for skin stuff.
They actually grow aquaponic cucumbers,
and because of the accelerated growth rate,
they actually use it for pharmaceutical production,
for topicals.
So there's all different types of ways
that aquaponics is really changing the world
and utilizing the benefits of it as well,
but in the space, not only just with cannabis,
but also other vegetables.
I know Bains worked at one of the largest
organic certified vegetable facilities
in all of North America,
and I know some of the other guys here
have some experience as well in the aquaponics.
I know Tanner in particular has grown quite a few vegetables
in aquaponics as well.
And you got Superior Fresh down in the States.
And when I look at the growth of the aquaponics movement
globally, I like to look at the two industries separately.
When you just talk about land-based fish farming
as a whole entity onto itself,
what you're seeing and what you're gonna be seeing
is mass migration of seafood
onto into land-based fish farms as conditions worsen,
for offshore fish farming operations.
So you're gonna have this new influx of animal agriculture
moving onto land,
and right now the manure is just dumped into the ocean.
So now you've got this additional nutrient supply.
So that, I mean, a 90,000 metric ton per year fish farm
is being built in Florida, a salmon farm,
Atlantic salmon as we speak.
So that's the largest land-based fish farm in the world
that's getting built right now.
So, and with all the food security thought process
that the world is going through now, Steve,
as you brought up, it's like, okay, well,
how can I create the densest amount of protein
with the least amount of input in a area or a volume?
And that's fish.
Like, when you're talking from a protein perspective,
a lot of the, like the fish we're growing
in a well-balanced fish farm or any good fish farmer
has got a one, like a 1.1 to one conversion rate.
So it's almost a pound in to a pound of meat out.
So aquaponics is the resource
to just tie a really valuable nutrient source
into your plant production facilities
and in a safer way, right?
Because, you know, fish manure doesn't have as much risk
for E. coli as a warm blooded animal does.
So like, that's more from a food perspective.
I mean, it's from both, right?
But more from a leafy green perspective on the fish side.
So, you know, massive growth in land-based fish farming,
massive growth in indoor agriculture,
and our industry is growing right along with it
because we're filling the gap.
On top of the food scarcity in the world,
we also have a water scarcity going on.
And with aquaponics, with our current system right now,
we're recycling 99% of that water.
And we also firmly believe we'd be able to get that
up to 99.99 with capturing that
through a vapor transpiration.
So on top of the benefits of providing
both leafy greens and protein,
you're also very little water use to be able to do that,
which is so cool.
It's basically if shit goes real bad,
be close to an aquaponics facility and bring the guns.
Oh yeah.
And if you're properly dosing with your probiotics,
I know, and we'll touch on this in a second,
but if you're properly dosing with probiotics,
you can drink that water.
I would happily drink water out of any aquaponics system
that I work on because we dose probiotics
that eliminate anything that's gonna make me sick.
But absolutely, I work with people in Barbados,
I've worked with people in Jamaica,
and they don't have that much water annually, right?
Or Australia, they don't have a lot of water annually.
So aquaponics provides a wonderful way.
Yes, you do need to have an initial large amount of water,
but aside from that initial large amount of water,
your day-to-day is just what the plants are uptaking
minus a small amount of evaporation.
And if you're recapturing that in the air,
you can put that right back in your system.
I know you do have to be careful though,
because some dehumidifiers can leach things like zinc,
stay away from zinc collectors.
But-
Yeah, the stamina, copper as well is another one.
Yep, yep.
So try to stay to the aluminum.
If you're gonna get a collector or a heat exchanger,
or not heat exchanger, what do they call them?
Radiators.
Make sure that they have aluminum ones
because those ones can actually be used
in the aquaponics system without having any kind of headache.
We use the Quest ones
and we don't really have too much of a problem here,
at least at our current facility.
So what if any Korean natural farming
or other probiotic inputs are you guys using?
I'm a big fan of lactobacillus bacteria.
I know that a friend of mine, Joe Pate,
over at Kentucky State University did a research project
where they actually looked at using lactobacillus acid
bacteria in order to eliminate pathogens,
as well as accelerate plant growth and fish growth.
And they had all kinds of cool results.
I don't know if that white paper has been released yet,
but if it hasn't, it will be this year.
What kind of things are you guys doing
for those types of inputs?
I'm right there with you on the lactic acid bacteria.
We like to do that a whole bunch.
We'll dose both on the systems and then spray that
as a preventative for certain foliars
to prevent DM and stuff like that.
In addition to the labs, we also do an FPJ
that we'll just as part of our routine trimming
and stuff like that, we'll take that
and make the fermented plant juice from it
and add that in with our compost teas and stuff like that,
just to give it a little extra zing.
Currently, I just got my boxes made today
to put out an additional IMO collection
to get that whole process started
and taking that all the way to the liquid IMO,
although we haven't done that one just quite yet at our farm.
What about anybody else?
Yeah, definitely labs.
I think that we talked about it pretty early on
after we started using it.
I think I originally picked it up years ago
in the Probiotic Farmers Alliance Facebook group,
so shout out to those guys.
Got a lot of good info there.
So that was kind of where I started
into the fermenting and K&F realm.
And so I had made some labs and I dosed it
in a couple of different things.
And I had spilled some on some filter paper
that I had pulled out of something.
And a couple of days later,
it had eaten almost everything off the filter paper
and was relatively clean again.
And so I actually started dosing it in my beds
around that time, as opposed to just in my tanks
and seeing the benefits of the solids break down
inside of my beds.
And I think I ran the last system I had down there
for almost two years, I think,
between a complete bed clean outs.
And even when I cleaned it out,
then it was for the move, it was really,
was doing just fine.
So I've been able to use labs and other microbes, ferments,
that really increase microbial density
and variety to help break down solids in my system,
as opposed to using filtration.
So I really had a lot of good luck with that.
At today's date, we are not doing any microbial inputs
in our system, given the mineralization process we have.
That's our digesters, our big micro area,
where it's really breaking down the solids
that's coming in from the salmon side,
and then making sure we're really filtering that water out
before it ends up heading over to the plant side.
But we wanna really push the limits of what's possible
with the aquatic microbial life from our coho salmon,
and then down the road,
take a look at how we can continue to improve.
Very cool.
We actually do both IMO collections
in terrestrial and aquatic biomes here,
and then use those for any time we do nutrients,
we'll make a light compost tea to make sure
that those nutrients have the microbes
that they need to get into the plant very quickly.
And that's how we address all of our stuff.
So we also do lactobacillus aside from our IMO.
And then I've also been,
and we can roll into pest management is,
I've had a huge amount of luck with this new methodology,
or newer-ish methodology of doing an IMO collection
using insect frass.
So we'll actually do a typical IMO collection as you would
with traditional IMO in Korean natural farming,
where you take your rice, you cook it,
and you put it in a box in the forest.
But we actually take a third of that
and actually put insect frass in it,
and then do two thirds rice with one third insect frass,
mix that all together, then cook it,
do it in a not your kitchen.
You will regret it if you do that.
Not the best smelling stuff,
but you put it out in your box
and you'll actually collect your shitan feeding microbes
that love to feed on those exoskeletons of those plants,
so, or the insects rather.
So you can spray that on your plants in a liquid IMO form,
either from an IMO two or an IMO three or four,
depending on what you're gonna make your liquid IMO from,
and actually use that as one of the best ways
to mitigate caterpillars, grasshoppers, aphids,
and as a general pest management spray,
particularly when I was over in Africa,
we didn't have access to any placement.
I could get beneficial insects.
Sometimes it comes on time,
sometimes it takes a month and a half, right?
It's just completely inconsistent,
and it's not like in the West.
Sprays are kind of, you know, Paraquat,
you can still be bought in the country
to give you an idea of where they are on sprays.
So they don't have anything I can buy.
So we had to come up with our own solutions
for big scale mitigation
in a way that's not gonna kill my fish
or deal with anything else.
So that was some of the solutions that we came up with
and have worked very, very well for us.
But aside from beneficial insects,
what are you doing for your pest management practice?
That's kind of what I do.
My beneficial probe is for the fungal
and then beneficial insects for the insect control.
So what are you guys doing for pest management?
And then the aquaponics kind of has this forced honesty
because of the fish being part of the component
of the system.
Yeah, we're doing that.
We're just doing a full IPM.
So integrated pest management.
So all beneficial insects, you know,
hanging the thrip killers on the plants
when they get just big enough and pouring the grubs
or, you know, the predators into the soil.
And I kind of like that.
I almost noticed, you know,
when we first transferred our plants into the room
and then I brought in the integrated pest management,
I just, it did change the room a bit.
You know, the plants seem to, you know,
react to the entry of those beneficials.
So, you know, it's the only way to go.
Yeah, I totally agree.
We lean pretty heavy on our beneficial bugs.
We have a whole variety of different predatory mites
we'll put down from the Swarovski's in the little bags
like you're talking about.
We'll do our persimilis and either a broadcast
or a spot treatment for if we ever get any spider bites
or anybody else kind of breaking out.
We lean pretty heavy on our rogue beetles
for keeping the soil all cleaned up.
Between them and the H miles,
we're able to do a pretty good job of that.
We've also got nematodes that we're throwing in
in the mix on the soil layer.
Let's see, we've also got a couple of parasitic wasps
out for both of our moth eggs.
And then we also have a couple of the parasitic wasps
that go after the aphids as well as some of the
aphidius family, I believe it is,
that we incorporate into our IPM.
That pretty much rounds up most of the bugs.
I know I'm missing a couple that we've got
sprinkled in there, certainly for spot treatment.
And then we'll rely on a couple of biologic sprays.
I know we had talked about labs
and then we do a product called Cease,
which is a Bexalis subtilis that we've had
a lot of success with on fighting different things
like PM in the greenhouse when we get a little outbreak
of that and then preventatively, of course, as well.
Yeah, all beneficial bugs here.
Mostly a lot of, if we do have issues,
it's a lot of defoliating and repurposing bugs.
I really like having the pouches
or the hanging cards for lace wings
or some of those that you can move around
if you do get problem areas.
We kind of rally the troops a little bit.
But yeah, for the most part,
like even I think it took me about two runs
of constantly pushing beneficial insects.
So lace wing, Californicus, Persimilis mites,
road beetles, pyrobugs.
So the only thing that I would say about that
is make sure that you have effective bugs
for if you're outdoor, definitely your time of year,
your temperature, your humidity.
Some of those parasitic wasps are only effective
at certain stages.
Some of them are gonna infect just the eggs.
So you need to release those early.
You can modify and you can work
with your local agriculturalist to be able
to kind of understand about when those cycles are
and kind of cover those in the most effective time.
But really it's all comes down to environment.
You wanna set them up to be as successful as possible
and outnumber them.
It's not just releasing bugs and hanging pouches.
I think that's where a lot of people kind of go astray
with beneficial insects is that if you pick one
that's not set for your environment,
then they're all just gonna die off
or leave trying to go somewhere else.
They don't get enough of them
and they don't monitor it moving forward.
You gotta check and make sure
that your populations are in check.
I like to maintain a four to one beneficial
non-beneficial ratio.
So if I pull a leaf off of my grow
and I look at the bottom of it,
I wanna see at least four good bugs
for every bad bug ideally.
And if I don't, then I wanna release more.
Whether that's what type or what it is,
I usually do a rotation.
So lacewings are kind of all my generalists.
They're kind of always out there
but they don't reproduce really well.
So they kind of always need to be released.
So luckily they're relatively inexpensive.
I try to keep my humidity up and in check for BPD anyway.
So usually like the persimmonless
or telephornicus mites here
are my go-to for like just your two spotted mites.
You got your H miles,
road beetles that I like for your root zone areas.
So I try to cover each area separately.
So the media beds,
the dual root zone layer with the soil
and the canopy up above.
I try to separate predators into each one of those areas
so they don't over compete.
There's always that perimeter up for anything around.
So what are some of the,
oh, hold on.
I think closed here.
One second.
Trying to juggle everything.
I had a problem with my internet here for a second.
What are some of the advice you have for someone
that might wanna get started in aquaponics?
Be sure you wanna look after fish.
It's probably.
Start with feed your goldfish.
I would say like if I could like give one piece of advice,
I guess it would be that, you know,
everybody kills fish.
So you might as well kill some cheap ones to start with.
You know, I wouldn't go buy salmon or trout
or, you know, prize koi to start your first system ever.
You know, and then aside from that, you know,
study and learn what you can and then get your hands dirty
and mess something up and learn from that.
Actually, can I add a twist to that question,
which is I feel like Tom is an example
of someone who has a fish tank.
And I feel like millions of people have fish tanks
or little koi ponds,
kind of in like a pimp my fish tank concepts.
Can you Jerry rig your average, you know,
30, 50 gallon fish tank to suddenly start producing lettuce?
Or-
When I talk to fish tank people or aquaculturists
or whatever you want, fish keepers,
you guys have all kinds of names.
But when I try to relate aquaponics to you guys,
I try to think of it like this.
Imagine your media bed is your biofilter.
And then you just grow stuff out of your biofilter.
Because almost a lot of people are familiar
if you have fish tanks, you're familiar with a biofilter,
you know, so which is essentially using microbes
in the same way that we do in an aquaponics system
to clean water.
And then the only difference being is that we don't have
to necessarily change out the water
once the nitrates build up too high in your system,
which you'd normally do with a biofilter system
at some point, you would have to clean those out.
But today we have plants.
So we manage the plants, which ultimately take that out.
So if you wanted to just take a fish tank
and add a media bed to it,
remove any other biofilters that you have attached to it,
or maybe even transplant, if it's got media in it,
you can transplant some of that to a media bed.
But you can add a media bed as long as you are able
to get your plants into the media bed
and get your water in there, cycle it.
You can do it with a timer, you can do it with a U-siphon,
you can do it with a bell siphon.
There's tons of videos about how to build those things,
but essentially a siphon system just fills it up
and drains it out.
You can do the same thing with a timer.
But yeah, just add a media bed and some plants
to your average fish tank, and you can scoop water out of it
and pour it in there a few times a day,
and it would probably still grow most plants.
So it's very flexible.
If you want them to grow fast,
then a siphon system that constantly siphons water through
is a great thing to have.
And it will definitely boost growth rates,
but there's plenty of NFT systems
and constant flow systems and stuff
that will work for a while and generally work well.
And they will generally have their own issues,
but if you're just looking to grow lettuce,
it's a lot easier than trying to grow
something like cannabis that will take a little bit longer.
You can usually grow lettuce in what,
three weeks, four weeks, something like that.
Four weeks, yeah.
So we did a whole bunch of research
around this particular topic when I was at Aquaponics Source
and you really need about 40 or 50 gallons of fish tanks
in order to actually grow a cannabis plant
and you need enough fish biomass
to make enough nutrients to feed the plant.
But the easiest way for most people,
if you have an aquarium,
is get a hang on the back filter box
or an overflow box, as they like to call them.
And then simply just run that to a tuft tote
or whatever your sump is to your flood and drain table
in your grow tent or your normal flood and drain tables
in your room, and then you're good to go.
You want to return to the fish tank,
you run one off to your bed,
either on a timer or on a flood and drain,
or like Marty said, with either a bell siphon,
which was first invented by Pythagoras.
It was originally called the Pythagorean cup
or the greed cup.
If people put too much wine in their cup,
it would spill the wine through the stem all over them.
So that was the original invention,
but today we use them for our flood and drain beds
or you can use loop siphons,
which are another way to do it,
which is an external siphon type,
which can be a little bit easier.
And you also will actually let you do a larger bed.
So loop siphons, you can actually do up to 120 square feet,
whereas bell siphons, a one inch bell siphon
really kind of tops out at around 48 to 50 square feet
in terms of flood and drain space,
assuming you're doing a eight to 12 inch deep bed.
Yeah, and that quite often is the biggest hurdle
in a proper entry for a nutrient thirsty plant
into aquaponics as a whole
is that minimum amount of fish, right?
And that's the issue you run into
when you're converting your home tanks
and it just comes down to feed conversion rate
to quantity of plants,
but a great way to test out aquaponics,
also is to grow a different plant to start,
try it out, grows less nutrient, then upgrade your fish.
Oh yeah, and that's definitely something
like you guys were saying earlier,
definitely don't start off with expensive fish,
start off with cheaper ones,
Koi and tilapia both, you know, harder to kill.
And then once you know what you're doing,
then complicate it, you know,
make your life harder after you've gotten
everything else running smoothly.
Same thing with organic certification,
you know, it can be really hard
to get organic certified right out the bat,
especially if you've never done it before,
you know, design your system
so it can be organically certified,
get up and running, get cashflow,
and then move into the organic certification
rather than trying to dive into it.
Because again, in cannabis right now,
the increase in price point simply doesn't really justify
the amount of additional headache and labor
that it puts onto your team.
What about food for your home system?
Yeah, Breeder Steve was talking about
don't feed them shit fish food.
Yeah, that's super important
because you are what you eat,
so whatever you're putting through that fish,
I mean, when you're eating food,
it's more relevant, right?
I mean, you're still smoking a flour
that would be grown with the lesser nutrients,
so it might not perform as well.
So that's kind of a difficulty too
if you're doing a smaller system,
but you can always get a bag of good stuff
from a larger fish farmer, right, to feed your fish.
Going down the line, starting with Steve,
what's like a,
what's a high level intellectual conversation slash,
like you could either be agreeing with someone,
like something you wanna explore, research, test,
or having a debate with someone on your team,
someone else in the aquaponics community,
kind of like what in the past couple weeks or couple days
have you been having intense conversations with,
like what was the topic and who were you talking with
and what was the topic?
So I've been working on an aquaponic cannabis book
to put out later in the year or beginning of next year,
and one of the rabbit holes that I've been working on
for quite a while, and Bain knows this
because he's seen quite a bit firsthand,
and Martin as well, is looking at ferments
and Korean natural farming as a way
to replace mineral input.
So growing things like stinging nettle for silica
over what traditionally people consider
like horsetail being your high signal.
Well, actually stinging nettle is like eight times
the level of silica.
So looking at doing individual FPJs that we can use
in place of our bottle nutrients or our mineral salts
or I like to collectively call them the baby bottles
and moving towards a way that can be both used
in not only aquatics with fish, but also in soil
and mapping that out.
I think that there's so much need for research
and that's really been a rabbit hole
that I've been kind of jumping down quite a bit
for quite a while and especially lately,
really fine tuning it to try and give people
a top 10 or 15 options for plants
when they're trying to boost individual nutrients
in a way that's not gonna also kill their fish
that they can pour in the water
and replace maybe a potassium silicate
or a calcium carbonate or a magnesium sulfate
or a sodium libidinate with a plant-based input instead.
So that's been really the thing
that I've been jamming on hardcore
and that and endophytes.
I seriously can't read enough on endophytes.
Talk about endophytes, tell us about them.
Oh yeah, so endophytes and this is something
that I think, especially in aquaponics,
I think is really long-term gonna be one of the areas
where they really make a lot of major discoveries
is that what aquatic endophytes are the cannabis plants
adapting from the aquaponics that aren't existing
in our terrestrial plants?
And what direct gene expression and terpene expressions
are they causing that do not exist in terrestrial soil?
And again, that goes back to what I was talking about
earlier with a place for biotech to really move in
and actually make a profitable product
and fund this research.
If you found something in there,
you could fund 10 years of research or more
to keep going down that rabbit hole.
And I think that really is an area
that not only would provide enormous impact
for people in the cannabis industry,
but allow people around the world.
I just came back from a Zimbabwe, right?
You think they have money for buying MPK at the store?
Of course they don't, right?
They make their own stuff.
They make their own pesticides.
They make their own composted nutrients.
They take their own cattle manure.
They've shoveled into an area.
They put that on their fields.
They're very conscious about that.
So we can take this and actually make it
and amplify it and spread this as a way
that we can use across the world for not only cannabis,
but other crops as well.
And I know there's lots of soil people
that are jumping down that rabbit hole,
but I haven't heard a lot of people
that actually try to take the Korean natural farming way
of using the Korean natural farming microbial complexes
for mineral isolation in the context of the bioaccumulators
and hybridizing them with the bioaccumulator charts,
and then mapping that out as far as,
hey, what actually does come out really good in a ferment
that it stays bioavailable and what doesn't?
And I think that that is an area
that there's immense room for research
that will not only benefit aquaponics,
but also benefit the soil around as well.
Not only for cannabis, but for broad food production.
K and F, correct?
Oh yeah, I'm friends with Chris Trump and Eric Weiner.
So basically, Kevin Jodry made a joke
that I thought was actually pretty on point.
Like when he was in Columbia,
every local area, region of the world,
essentially has their own version
of what we in America call K and F.
So he was like, yeah, they do Columbia natural farming.
So can you talk about,
is there anything you picked up in Zimbabwe
where you connected the dots
of these isolated spots in the globe?
Korea, somewhere in South America, Zimbabwe,
where you're like, oh my God, they're doing something.
They're calling it different things.
They've never spoken to anybody in Korea,
but I see connections around the world.
So I didn't see it so much in Zimbabwe,
but I definitely saw it in Jamaica.
So people are familiar with labs
and they're familiar with FPJ.
Well, they kind of combine the two
into one product in Jamaica.
So they'll take a 55 gallon drum,
they'll take milk or a cow milk or goat milk,
and they'll put it into the drum.
And then they'll take fruit skins,
usually sweet sop or sour sop,
and put them in the barrel.
They'll eat the fruit and take the pits and the skins
and they'll put them in there.
And they'll ferment that for up to 30 days, 24 to 30 days.
And then they use that as a finisher
to increase terpene production.
And that is something that,
that was developed either in somewhere
in far Western Africa or in the Caribbean, right?
That methodology, but that is very similar in methodology
to what we understand as KNF.
One of the other things that I found
is really interesting too, is that,
KNF is really cool, but we need to kind of,
we could capitalize and maximize and min max that.
For instance, labs, everyone likes to do
the traditional rice water collection.
Well, what actually works even better than that,
significantly better, is if you use kefir, milk kefir,
because it has significantly higher levels of vitamin B
and a much wider range of vitamin B complexes,
which the plants love.
You'll get a huge increase in growth rate
because of those vitamin Bs being able to provide it
in a way that the plants can actually readily uptake again.
So there's a lot of stuff where you can take
the methodology from that, but we could perfect it
if we just take a little bit of science and overlay it.
The same way with, we didn't quite understand
what terpenes were back in the day,
but we knew that the smells and just certain smells
helped people with certain things more.
Then we learned about terpenes,
then we learned about CBD and all this other stuff.
And, you know, we did, the more we have the science
to teach us why things are working,
the more we can kind of increase that.
And there's so little research done with,
around so much of that realm because it's been new
or it's been illegal or people just haven't taken it
seriously.
And remember before the depression,
everyone did natural farming, right?
We didn't have any mineral salts.
There was no petroleum based stuff before the 1920s, right?
So 1910.
So we just kind of need to go back to how we used to grow.
And I remember my grandparents grew up
during the depression and we made our own,
we'd cut willows cuttings and put that in sunflower oil
and make our own cloning gel
and all kinds of things like that.
So this is to, and ferment our own tomato leaves
to kill the aphids and the Japanese beetles.
And this is all stuff that is very in line
with what a lot of people are doing,
that stuff what my grandparents were doing, right?
So this is just, we have to kind of get back
to the way that we used to grow
because it worked for thousands of years, right?
We didn't have that other than when weather
got out of control, this stuff worked, right?
So, and to further go back, look at the Vikings
and how they preserved the microbes in the horns.
I don't know if you're familiar with that
where they'd hollow out cow horns.
And then when the fall, they'd save the best soil
and put it in there and bury it deep underground.
And they dig them up and use them to sprinkle
on their garden.
And they get actually an extra, almost month of growth rate
out of their plants in Europe.
So it was one of the things that actually allowed
the Vikings to spread as far as they did.
So, but they knew it was like the earth spirits
or whatever, right?
So actually the soil microbes that they're preserving
and keeping them from getting too cold and dying off
or becoming into that permanently dormant state.
So we've been doing a lot of things
that we traditionally think of as very modern
that aren't modern at all.
You know, we've been doing them for a very long time.
We just think of them in a certain context
as being a new thing.
And, you know, even aquaponics, you know,
going back to the chinampas in Mexico,
the very first aquaponics that anyone ever did
were the chinampas in New Mexico City, right?
So even aquaponics isn't that new of an idea, you know,
it's at least 3000 years old or 2000 years old.
All right, Tanner, what about you?
What's a vigorous dialogue debate
or a green conversation you've had with someone on your team
in the past week or so?
Yeah, I mean, for us right now,
our number one focus is finding that perfect,
you know, those perfect strain combos
with what we have going on in our soil.
But everything we're doing in our farm
is completely research-based.
So this is why Steve and I get along so well.
You know, I got two plant scientists
coming in hot right now.
And for us, it's all about the microbes.
So, you know, if I was to put a skewer
through the middle of, you know, our mission long-term,
it's just to completely understand living soil
and the microbial cultures that kind of occur in there
and that expression in strains
to microbes generated out of an aquaponics system
and how that translates and, you know,
how deep into the microbiome can we dig with, you know,
with our control of what goes in there
and what kind of, you know, nirvana,
or, you know, for lack of a better word,
can we create out of a strain getting down into that?
And then, you know, can that have
some major medical benefits out the other end as well?
You know, how does that affect, you know,
if it's translated from cannabis into an extract
or whatever it is, this is really long-term,
but what would that look like in their microbiome?
So it's like, you know, we farm three things, man.
We farm plants, fish, and microbes.
And, you know, it's a nice kind of focal point for us.
But around that, we build everything else.
You know, what is the optimum fish feed?
You know, what's the sustainability component of that?
Where do those ingredients come from?
Can we pull that closer in-house
and localize it a bit more and, you know,
kind of go from there?
So it's just this balance of, you know,
finding an optimized, all optimized genetics
in a aquaculture setting combined with energy management.
So what are you exploring with fish feed?
I mean, one of the interesting things I got
from our conversation with Steve, with breeder Steve,
was, well, two things.
One was the diversity of fish
that he wanted in his system.
He didn't just want all one type of fish.
I mean, he has crocodiles, he has all kinds of fish.
I mean, he has crocodiles and all sorts of fish.
And then also just kind of what he's feeding,
you know, the carnivores and the herbivores.
So what are you exploring with what you're feeding the fish,
which then in turn feed the plants?
Yeah, I mean, so for us, you know,
that's the starting point,
whereas a omnivore and a herbivore
has a higher vegetarian diet,
so the salts are lower in your fish feed by default.
So, you know, that's a pretty good anchor point for us.
And having a stabilized fish species
to do our research through,
that's important to us right now as well,
because, you know, the more manure processing machines
we add in to the fertilizer factory,
the more variables that we have to try to pin down
on feeding nutrients into the plants.
But the fish feed in general, like the starting point
is that to get the protein in most fish feed,
it actually comes from fish.
So they put fish that is the off catch of trawlers
into the fish meal.
And then you're feeding, you could be feeding a herbivore.
That's the most economical source of protein
in that fish feed.
And that's how the whole infrastructure
of the fish feed industry is built
around that as a primary source.
So a lot of times, you know,
when you're looking to change that as an example,
because, you know, if you put a bloat fly in place
as your protein source in place of actual fish meal,
you've got a lower salt, just as high of protein input,
but there's not enough bloat fly manufacturing facilities
to lower the bloat fly cost
so that your fish feed doesn't cost you,
you know, a gazillion dollars.
So this is, there's, so like all the enhancements
and a whole bunch of nutrient enhancing options
are available for fish feed as well, right?
You know, you can put, you can get as fancy as you want
with that feed and see, you know,
what kind of improved traits you're getting out of that fish
and get it in your fertilizer out the other side.
But they, you know, the availability of feed
at a low cost to do those tweaks
is something you have to have your eye on all the time.
So it's like, you know, you could try to go over here
in your feed innovation,
but you have to balance that with where your cost would go
if you found out it worked well.
And then you're like, well,
it only cost me a thousand dollars a kilogram
to, you know, feed my fish.
So I'm good.
Well, we've found, or I've personally found
that roaches seem to be the best food for scale,
both Dubia hissing cockroaches
or in the Caribbean mango roaches,
or in Africa we had this large forest roach.
It's very, very closely related.
I think we have a lot of those in Brunswick.
Yeah, very closely related to Madagascar
hissing cockroaches there in Zimbabwe.
And we can basically, we raise them
in large top loading freezers.
We put two inches of Vaseline on them
and we just get big freezers
and we take all of our fan leaves
and then leftover smaller stocks and stuff.
It goes in there and gets converted into food.
And their waste is significantly well,
much better balanced than earthworm castings by volume.
So it's definitely been one of the more interesting things,
but in terms of something that you can actually generate
a lot of in biomass,
they are one of the only things that can breed
at the rate that you actually need
to keep up with your fish.
And something that you can also,
if you feed them the right foods,
something that you can sterilize
and get a good culture to have for internal production
without having to worry about pathogens or anything else.
Did you just say you,
so you were,
sorry.
I was gonna say, so you were feeding the roaches.
So basically they're eating plants
and you're feeding them cannabis.
Yep, so we take the fan leaves
and we do our defoliating.
They go into the bins,
they feed the roaches and then the roaches feed the fish.
So pretty simple.
And we do also do that with worms.
I know Marty also does quite a few different
insect production.
Black soldier flies are another really good one.
They're one of the best calcium to protein rate
to fat ratios per gram of any insect that you can raise
for chicken or fish feeds.
So these are all things that can be added
or raised separately,
or even off of just your defoliating production
to be frank with you.
Yeah, and a lot of them work together,
like red worms, for instance,
love, you know, like the solids that'll come out of here,
you know, fruit ferments or vegetable,
you know, plant ferments in general,
you know, so, and a lot of times in a ferment,
I am straining the solids and the solids go to the worm bin
and the liquids are then dosed in the aquaponics system.
So a lot of times, and you'll just see, you know,
population growth explode in your red worm bins.
Like if you make,
like I made a sour plum one time
and I threw the solids in there on the worm bin
and it just went crazy.
I posted a picture of it, I think the Instagram,
and it just, just like a shovel full of nothing
but big fat red worms.
And so that's one of my kids' favorite things to do actually
is go take worms out and toss them in the fish
and pretty good entertainment
and a great food source too.
So their population can explode really quickly.
So definitely, you know, I highly recommend both red worms
and seems to be a proponent of black worms too, right?
There's a smaller aquatic worm called black worms
that can be amazing for aquaponics systems
for breaking up sludge and solid waste.
They love to feed on anaerobic bacteria.
So they'll actually seek out those problem areas
in your beds and provide aeration kind of automatically
as their normal food source.
So again, if you're having struggling with problems
with your media beds and things like that,
with clogging or just junk in them,
that can be a great way to help keep the system much cleaner
without having to actually do much of any actual labor,
which is always good
when you can have a little critters cleaning for you
instead of yourself.
Always good to pass off that labor to someone else.
All right, well.
Go ahead, Steve.
I was just gonna say, is there any other things
that you guys see as a cost reduction?
You know, we talked about how the mineral inputs
kind of are supplemented by the revenue
that the fish generate for themselves.
So that are basically our fertilizers generating revenue
to help pay for itself.
Is there any other ways that you guys have found
that aquaponics does provide a lower overhead costs
compared to other things aside from
just the reduced water usage
and the minerals being less money per run?
Well, I think kind of tying back to the question before
about like what might have been debate about recently,
which is a lot of it has been around,
I would say the nutrient versus micro discussion
in which I feel like we already have some studies
that are pretty solid in saying that,
increased microbial diversity will make better use
of fewer nutrients to grow the same
or even better production
and even plants other than cannabis.
So we've understand that we can move the needle.
Like we've figured that out,
but really dialing that into what is really driving growth?
Is there like a 60, 40 mix in here?
Like what is it?
So like my current grow and my test grow right now,
I did varying levels of potassium and phosphorus inputs
and trying to really figure out
what is the really driving factor
or what ratio is best to get the best growth
specifically for cannabis?
Is that different for different plants
or how does that work?
But I feel like we're just starting to understand
that microbes play a huge part in plant growth
and health and performance,
like all of those things that we care about as farmers.
We already know that we've been probably feeding
too many nutrients and not enough microbes
and really closing that gap to find out
what difference there is.
Because in my current grow,
I can definitely see that obviously you can't,
I don't feel like you can get top level performance
from a single nutrient profile
all the way through the entire grow.
So I would say that's probably my biggest debate right now
with myself.
And then the biggest debate I have with other people
is I would say about with living soil people,
it's always about aquaponics being something
besides living soil.
And so, or aquaponics people that say that soil
has no place in aquaponics.
It's kind of the zealotry from both sides.
Like that's probably always the heated debate that I get.
And I honestly just feel like
if you're coming from a living soil background,
my only pitch to you is that you guys talk about
biomimicry all the time, right?
Like we wanna replicate what happens in nature.
We wanna grow our cover crops and have them cut down
and recycle all that stuff through.
Okay, that's great.
But when does somebody come through
with a hand watering can and water everything?
Because I don't feel like that's where most
of sustained plant growth happens.
It's around aquatic systems that are fed
through underground water sources.
Like anything that's gonna be sustained
through a full season that get to a large size
and thrive is going to thrive around
an aquatic water system as opposed to just surviving
off of rainwater.
So I view aquaponics, especially dual root zone aquaponics
as sort of just the next step in evolution
of how to water living soil in a similar way
that we do in nature, which is filtering it
through aquatic life systems
to help maintain healthy microbial life
and not have to manage our soil microbials
in the same way that we do everything else
on an extended level.
So we can use a water system to help feed our living soil
in the same way on another level of biomimicry
or what I just feel like is further towards
what people wanna do, that those water systems
already exist in nature that we can copy them
in the same way that you wanna copy everything else.
Let's just extend that same line of thinking
towards water systems and graduate away from things
like drip systems or watering systems
or things that arguably don't exist in nature
and continue that same thought process that we do
with soil and just carry that through to water
and grow in some aquatic life.
I feel like it fits in really well
and most people that make the jump don't go back.
I don't have anybody that's gotten advice
and done aquaponics and dual root zone
and said, you know what, I really wanna go back
to my DWC hydro days and buy nutrients
because that just worked a lot better for me.
Just it hasn't happened yet, but if it ever does,
I'll let you know.
And the man in the dark.
So I spend a lot of time around water quality
and really understanding our system
and what water quality we're getting,
which is why we do a lot of testing on the whole system,
but the plant site, understanding exactly
what they're taking up and then touching
how can we really minimize our inputs into the system,
which then understands our digester,
which is really creating that living water for us.
Even how we change the flows
or the temperature of that digester,
that's gonna be breaking down those solids differently,
which then we end up seeing different nutrient profiles
coming through our system.
So we have got a lot of data to collect
and compare where we're at from one cycle to the next,
but that is where we spend a lot of time
is around our water quality,
given the temperature we're running the water at
and all those factors, the microbials,
we need to dig into more and understanding
what's happening in that big old digester.
And does, so Steve's been asking all the questions.
Does anyone have any questions for Steve?
Steve, you've gone an entire show
without talking about silica too much.
Are you gonna be okay?
Yeah, we touched on it a little bit
with the stinging nettle over the horsetail,
which a horsetail does have silica in it,
but your stinging nettle has magnitudes more.
So if you're after silica,
again, go after the stinging nettle, not the horsetail.
And then as a non-aquaponics person,
is this stuff then being dumped into the water
so that it can be absorbed by the plants?
Sure, so we'll actually put the vast majority of things
into the water, but if I do need to dose
something like potassium or something else
that might be remotely fish sensitive,
then we can go ahead and dose that through the soil zone
and the upper half, which we can maintain differently.
It also gives us, again, a level of control
where we can dose whatever way we want.
Some of the things that you do have to be careful of though
would be any wetting agents or yucca extract.
Yucca extract will kill fish in minuscule doses,
like two drops in 18,000 gallons,
three drops in 18,000 gallons will kill all the fish.
So those are stuff that we do have to avoid.
You dropped in?
Oh no, so actually for those of you that don't know,
if you're native, anyone that actually
has been in Northern California or Oregon knows this,
but the Native Americans in Northern California
and in Oregon and even parts of Nevada
would actually take yucca and they'd squeeze the roots
and collect the juices into a concentrate
and put them into clay vessels.
And then they'd evaporate it off
to make a concentrated form and concentrate the sapon
inside the yucca extract and actually pour it
into the river and have their tribe go down river
about half a mile or a mile and then collect all the fish
during the fish run.
And then it would dilute down to where it wouldn't hurt
anything anymore and then they just scoop the fish
off the surface and gut them and dry them
and away they go and it doesn't hurt humans at all
as far as cooking it and eating it.
But yes, don't use yucca extract or any soil
that has it in it if you're doing aquaponics.
You will regret it.
I get that call at least once every two or three months.
I get a phone call about that.
But take it fishing with you.
Oh yeah, well, you know, and Marty,
maybe that's a good question is what some
of the really wacky stuff that people have asked you.
I've had people ask me if they can use OxiClean
in their system because it's got oxygen in it, right?
I've had people ask me if they can pleasure themselves
into the tank to feed their baby fish because they're small
and they swim and it's something that can feed your fish.
I've had people spray Windex on their plants
because I don't know, for some reason they read
that it's supposed to kill aphids.
Like what are some of the other goofy things
that you guys have had?
I've asked of you.
In the tank, I've gotten more than once for some reason,
they're like, oh, well, if the fish can be in the tank,
can I be in the tank and make it work?
So, I mean, and then like we talked about the,
does it taste like fish poop or any of those,
or do you spray the fish poop on the plants?
No, we don't spray the fish poop directly on the plants.
You know, some definite like,
definite weird, weird stuff.
Yeah.
Can't think of anything else off the top of my head,
but I think that so many different people
try a lot of different things
and some really great stuff comes out of it
and some really not so great stuff comes out of it.
Sometimes it's just, you know,
sometimes you end up making labs and it works out great.
You're like, well, why would you ferment milk
and put it in the aquaponics system?
Like sometimes it turns out great.
And then other times you end up asking Steve
whether or not you can pleasure yourself into a media pit.
And maybe you just have to take the good with the bad.
I don't know.
So just to confirm,
none of you are jerking off into your aquaponics system.
No.
Oh.
Oh.
Yeah, is that person under-recommended?
I was unclear.
I heard Bain sneaks into Steve's.
But that's a rumor.
I don't know.
He left early, so he can take on that.
So are all of you doing dual root zone,
like soil on top?
Or are...
I am not.
We do not have soil at our facility.
We are just straight roots into the deep water culture.
Yeah, we're in the soil.
Yeah, I think he's the only one
that's not utilizing that methodology.
So in the aquaponics world,
kind of what's the like,
are most people doing dual root zone
or most people doing...
Oh, I mean, my opinion is it's still quite a mixed bag
of methodologies and like, you know,
people are doing what works well
and what they're tuning to their genetics, right?
As well, I think that's a lot of it.
As well, right?
Like I came out of a nutrient film technique background,
which was a steady flow of water
cycling through the system at all times.
And it's got a lot of great benefits to it as well.
I think you do a lot of good things in a system like that
or deep water culture versus dual root zone.
But it's pretty mixed bag.
I think it's a good thing.
But it's pretty mixed bag, I'd say.
Steve, correct me if I'm wrong.
I might be off base there.
So as far as cannabis goes, yeah,
I think that Leanne's the only commercial producer
currently not using dual root zone
that I'm aware of as far as licensed producers
in North America, certainly in North America.
I know the only one that's in Switzerland,
I know that they're doing dual root zone as well.
So I know that globally, as far as cannabis goes,
that's pretty much been the standard.
But as far as regular vegetable production goes,
it's pretty rare.
People do use it for tomatoes and peppers.
Fruit trees are done that way.
But outside of those crops, generally people do,
or cucumbers, but outside of those crops,
generally people do flat DWC or NFT or regular media beds
or those types of things.
Traditionally, the dual root zone stuff
really is a newer methodology that kind of came about
from my experimentation out over at the aquaponics source,
working with a couple of people from Europe
and stuff like that,
that were tinkering around with cucumber production.
And we adopted that for cannabis production.
And that's actually where that came from originally.
And so what did you notice that does better
than other techniques?
So the biggest difference would be,
one, the difference in flavor,
and then two, the difference in nutrient control,
and then three would be the reduction in powdery mildew
and surface molds.
Huge, huge difference, night and day difference
in all of our testing with molds.
Even when we intentionally introduced powdery mildew
to the leaf surface in testing,
at least at the aquaponics source with tomatoes,
we were able to notice a noticeable boost
in mold reduction, which again, in aquaponics,
we do have a high, generally we're flirting
with the upper end of VPD naturally,
unless we're gonna really make our dehumidifiers
run pretty heavily.
So, we tend to not want to give mold any chance we can.
Keeping silica above 65 to 70 parts per million
in aquaponics also seems to make an enormous difference
in mold resistance.
That seems to be a huge threshold
right around that 60 PPM level.
And aquatically, even for lettuce,
for Botrytis and leaf molds,
it can be a huge reduction in those
when you get above that 60 to 65 parts per million silica.
So, yeah, I lost my train of thought there.
Yeah, I think we're talking about dual root zone
and its effectiveness for really for just being able
to have an area where you can feed the plant
that doesn't, because the soil layer stays completely
separate from the water level in the table,
you can feed higher levels of nutrients less often.
So, you don't have to feed like say every other day
or however often you're feeding your additional nutrients,
you would have to feed them less often
because you could stockpile more nutrients
in the dual root zone layer.
So, having grown in both just straight media
and dual root zone, I was able to reduce the amount
of feeding that I had to do down to just a couple
of times per cycle in the dual root zone,
as opposed to a couple of times a week in just media beds.
So, that's kind of, in my opinion,
the most value that you can dial it in.
So, the system can be your baseline
and each plant can have its own nutrient mix
or profile that it likes to grow in.
And that can be difficult if you're just doing media beds
in an entire system, there's no separation there either.
And that would be the other two things
I would also bring up too, would be individual control.
I can run three different strains
and run three different nutrient profiles
all together with the same main base.
So, they get the same 90% of it.
And then we can fine tune that last little bit
to perfect them on a per strain basis.
The other one I would say is a huge advantage
is pest management, primarily,
if you ever run into root aphids.
You can actually, you have a space for your nematodes
to actually live near your root system
with the dual root zones.
And you give a place for your rove beetles
and other predators to actually live and colonize
and not deal strictly with an aquatic environment.
I have consulted on DWC cannabis grows that had root aphids
and dealing with that tiny little layer at the bottom
can be a complete nightmare, even with Bavaria bisonia
and some of the other stuff that's out there
and doing them at combos.
Whereas with the dual root zone,
if you have a nice layer where you can have predators living
and happily all the time, we don't have those problems.
Once we switched everything over to the soil
from the straight net cups,
we were able to completely eliminate them
where they had thrown everything in the kitchen sink
at them before I got there.
So, this is another advantage I would say,
both from the nutrient end and from the IPM end,
it gives you more options and more control.
So, go ahead.
So, I do have like a number of different mixes
that are gonna be going into,
or that are in the dual root zone system right now.
I have one, because one question I get all the time is,
can you do just castings?
Why don't I just do just my red worm stuff?
So, people consistently wanna know,
cause they wanna be sustainable, right?
They wanna think, oh, well,
why do I need all this extra stuff?
Why can't I just do red worms?
And so, I did that and I even got some from the store.
So, I did a couple of different mixes in each bed
with varying levels of potassium and phosphorus.
And so, I do think that you can vary it a lot
in the dual root zone and get varied effects.
So, that's whether you're varying your levels for science
and trying to dial in a strain
to find out exactly what you want it to be.
You're running all the same cuts,
but in different soils.
So, that's what I'm doing right now.
I have about eight different clones of Thor's berry
that's all running in different nutrient mixes
and different size pots, all with the same base castings.
And then, one has just castings all by itself.
So, just, I think that kind of flexibility has value,
not just for different strains or different that,
but also for science,
if you really wanna dial a strain in,
it allows you to have really multiple experiments
happening in the same system at the same time,
as opposed to just one.
One nutrient profile for the entire system at once.
If you wanted to replicate those results,
you would have to have multiple small systems
to test with to test as fast.
Because otherwise you're limited per run.
You can do like five tests a year.
You can only progress so quickly,
as opposed to, if you've got a hundred slots in your system,
then you could run, in theory, a hundred different mixes
in the same way you run a hundred different plants
in a pheno to find out the best one.
You could run a hundred different nutrient mixes
in your soil layer to find out
which one produced the absolute best.
So, that might be extreme.
You probably wouldn't run a hundred,
but you could run 10 different strains
with 10 different profiles.
And that becomes much more attractive
to somebody trying to dial something in
and figure out what you want to grow on a commercial level.
So, just running a test system,
I think would be a huge value to keep in a place now
that just did DWC or whatever it was.
Because you would still have those nutrient levels
that should have some sort of transport
across growing types that you would be able to replicate
even in your production system.
So, I think it has,
Dill Root Zone has a lot of value just in its flexibility,
and it's a good thing that we're only just
starting to play with.
I think that just goes back to the level of control
that you get with it.
You can dial in your aquatic zone
with the fish and the fish water
up until the point where it's a problem for the fish.
You can play with your soil mixes.
You can do a time release and you could do no-till.
You could do living soil.
You can do straight hydro nutrients if you want to go crazy.
You could do PGRs and do a sit into the soil
and it won't affect the fish.
It's pretty crazy.
You have the option of whatever you want.
You have more knobs and more switches and more sliders
that you can change to dial it in.
And again, it just allows you to really have
the most amount of choices when you're trying to decide,
well, what do I add?
Well, if I need to add calcium,
I can add it in the upper part or in the lower part,
I could foliar feed.
So again, it kind of gives you a wide range of options
as far as nutrient feeding and how you want to go about it,
be it organic, non-organic, natural input,
non-natural input, or whatever.
Yeah, I think the other option too is controlling
your nutrient from fish tank, processed ready nutrient
from fish tank into a secondary tank
where you can have some tweaking there with,
of course, in our case, organic certified,
you gotta tweak your minerals at that point.
Some stuff you're just not gonna get
from your fish feed dependent, right?
So I like to do our tinkering on the water side
and kind of go into it with the soil medium
either being living or not.
You know what I mean?
Even from a dual root zone perspective in the,
as you progress kind of down the value chain, right?
It's what does coir look like when it takes up
that microbial culture of your aquaponics water
when you've got that medium in play
because that's unique, right, as well.
And then you have over to the existing microbial culture
in your living soil and how both of those interact, right?
Yeah, absolutely.
One thing you touched on was coir.
I would highly advise against coir in aquaponics.
The microbes in our aquaponics love to break down coir
and it'll get pretty mushy pretty quickly.
We did a bunch of, I really, really, really wanted
to use coir chips because of how they give
a really good aeration and stuff for the roots.
But man, when we tested that,
that just turned into a nightmare.
We also did a whole four by four media bed
where we just filled it up in place of hydrogen with chips.
And what happened was they'd float and go up and down
and the plant would start off like at the top of the media.
And as it would flood and drain,
it would slowly go farther and farther down like quicksand
until the plant just almost disappeared into the media.
So it just, again, that was the cash,
the cation exchange has been,
at least in my personal testing,
has caused more problems than it has solved.
Maybe you've had a different experience.
Well, I think you have to make sure
you've got your irrigation match to the medium too, right?
You know, like you wouldn't wanna be, you know,
you wouldn't be in a bottom feed situation with coir,
like a nice cube, right?
And you're more of a drip irrigate scenario.
There, right?
So it's kinda, but I don't have the answer.
I'm just letting you know, we're gonna look at it.
Sure, sure.
There's only, I know there was one company in Canada
that was tinkering with it for a little bit
and then they ended up switching over more towards soil,
but I haven't spoken with them.
I think it was Aquilitas or I'm not even sure
what they're up to these days.
I haven't spoken to them in quite a while, but.
Well, that's a nice thing,
like where we're gonna be looking at things,
like we'll end up with a couple coir cubes,
you know, after we've got a stabilized strain
over a few cycles in that room with the soil baseline,
right?
You know, once we, whichever strain, you know,
hits a consistent flower number, the quickest, right?
Over a couple of crop rotations,
then we can, you know, put a couple of things in,
have a look, right?
You know, throw in a little DWC, you know,
do that comparison in a corner, right?
But, I mean, at the same time, we have to make money.
So it's not just, you know, it's not just, you know,
but we designed in, you know, we did that,
we built our facility with that in mind
so we can segregate these little, you know,
areas during our flower cycles, right?
That's definitely something else too
I see people do with aquaponic systems
is they'll buy one or they'll build one.
And then they want to experiment
with their production system.
And it's like, no, build a side system for R&D.
Don't ever experiment with your production.
And I see people do this all the time.
People call me and screw up whole systems,
or they list, they hire a hydro guy
who's dumping in the completely wrong iron
or is dosing hydroxides or, you know,
any number of completely crazy things
that you should never are dosing with an oxide.
I saw someone suggesting magnesium oxide for a system.
Well, that's cool,
but it's immediately gonna oxidize all your iron, right?
So that's not, and iron is expensive
because we use chelated iron, right?
So you got people that are throwing out
all kinds of bad information out there on aquaponics
and just have these backwards ideas on the chemistry
without any background in any of it
or any commercial experience.
That's another one.
And I'm sure you guys experience,
there's a ton of armchair experts in aquaponics
and none of them have grown weed,
but they'll tell you how to grow weed.
And that's something else that's very common in aquaponics.
But that, and again, people experimenting
with their production systems,
I see it all the time and I don't understand it.
Can you guys talk about, like, for example,
Tanner in New Brunswick,
is there a difference or is it similar,
the cultivars that grow well in aquaponics
versus non-aquaponics environments in your local geography?
Well, I mean, you know-
Like your friends who are down the road
who are not growing aquaponics,
are you guys noticing the same things?
Are you like, my experience is totally different
with how this cultivar yields or grows
or thrives or doesn't thrive?
Yeah, I mean, like, there's not a huge network
of aquaponics growers to reach out to.
No, no, no, so I'm saying non-aquaponics.
So are you seeing, like, the cultivars that you see
that work well in your environment,
are they consistent with the cultivars
that traditional farmers in your area
are also seeing that grow well?
Yeah, so we're not actually testing
a lot of local cultivars to the region.
Like, everything we're running through our system
is genetics that we've kind of curated from,
a lot of NorCal is in there.
So we're focused on some really, really specific strains.
Right, like our Royal Cush is a huge focus of ours.
I got it.
Looking at a Sky Cuddler, Sky Cuddler Cush, Cherry West.
You know, so we're siphoning through a lot of stuff
we can't really compare to anyone local indoors, right?
But this season, our outdoor,
we popped 200 seeds about two and a half weeks ago here now.
And we're gonna be siphoning through
what out of our library that we chose.
We were aiming for a shorter flower period.
I mean, like this growing season could run
until mid-October, even November, global warming.
If global warming kind of like gives us a gift,
we'll be able to go closer to Christmas.
So, you know, one of the things that we're so excited about
is that's 200 phenos.
So across about, you know, 35 strains roughly,
or maybe 30 strains.
And we're really gonna get a good idea
of what will perform really, really well here.
So we're kind of going the other route, I guess,
is we're going through what we have that we love,
and we think other people wanna smoke as well,
and that we wanna smoke.
And then we're also saying what works well in this region
that then we can kind of bring
into the East Coast community as well, so.
I've found that indicas seem to do slightly better
than sativas.
That also could just be partially the fact
that we're always growing in greenhouses
or some other thing where we're mildly height restricted.
But in general, I've noticed that.
I also noticed, you know, anything that's purple
or has a lot of color to it
seems to express color more in the aquaponics.
Yeah.
Yeah, I would say just like overall genetic expression.
I mean, I don't know if you can really say
that like it all tastes better or it all tastes,
you know, like it just always tastes different.
I think that's one of the things
that you can say, you know, objectively,
is that they never taste the same.
And I've had, you know, a couple of local growers
that I work with that do, you know,
really big into living soil and agriculture
and, you know, different K&F methods, you know.
So they're really using the same inputs,
just different growing methods.
And, you know, so we compare notes and exchange cuts
and, you know, it just, it always tastes different
than what other people do or what I do in different medias.
You know, in my personal opinion, you know,
it's definitely always better.
You know, like there's never been a strain that,
oh, you know what, I've really preferred it
in living soil over aquaponics.
So I think I'm getting up to like 16 strains
or something like that that I've grown in aquaponics now.
So I don't know, that's a pretty good record,
but I definitely can attest to the fact that it's different
and that all the people that I have allegedly smoked with
have said the same thing,
that you can definitely taste the difference.
So that's like the main thing, you know.
I think it'd be interesting to see like how it stacks up.
Additionally, like I know there's been some research
in different mushrooms that are effective as medicine,
but only when they feed off of certain type of food sources.
So I think it would be interesting.
I think Paul's statements did a lot of statements,
did a lot of research in the effectiveness of mushrooms
and its medicinal values, requiring it to be,
I think it was birchwood, a certain type of mushroom
had to feed off of birchwood
to have the type of medicinal effects.
So, you know, are there things,
applications specifically for aquaponic cannabis
where the terpene profiles are going to more effectively
treat certain medications or certain ailments, I guess.
I think it's a fascinating question.
I think eventually long-term though,
I think especially, this is something I've talked about
and something that I've learned a lot,
just watching how the Humboldt community
kind of came together to rally around
their selves as a brand.
But I really think that aquaponics almost could be
almost like its own Appalachia
because it's its own unique way.
And with the difference in the water pressure
and how the plants regulate that
and how the plants biologically adapt to that over time,
really does kind of create a different plant.
And I think that, you know, collectively,
if we all work together around that,
we could all support each other that way
and recognize it as a separate, you know,
biome type to grow your cannabis
that is a separate thing that has its own qualities
and traits that can be marketable,
you know, collectively as a group.
And kind of taking the idea that, you know,
some of the leaders like Kevin Jodery
and some of the other people down in Humboldt
have kind of taken that with the Humboldt Appalachia.
But I really do think that, you know,
if we're looking at this from a biological standpoint,
aquaponics really kind of is its own little Appalachia.
Or, you know, maybe that's the wrong way to phrase it,
but it's certainly that similar type of concept
when it comes to overall changing
the way that the plant grows
and its physiology in general.
Yeah, I mean, I think as a group,
we definitely have a great opportunity
to firm it up as a, you know,
high quality category, right?
Within the, you know, craft and high end,
community and that's all turf driven.
And that's, you know,
it's completely quality driven, right?
So.
So Steve, if you were to debate Frenchie Cannoli
about whether aquaponics deserves an Appalachian,
how would that conversation go?
I think it would go pretty well.
I know Frenchie has been begging me
to actually make some aquaponic hash.
So I'm hoping that when we get our good harvest here
in the fall, I can invite him out here
to tell me myself if it sucks or not.
He'll travel to Oklahoma.
I would be happy to give Frenchie a couple of pounds
to tell me what he thinks.
So Kevin was actually tuned in earlier.
I'm assuming he's since gone to bed, but.
It's 10 o'clock West Coast time,
10 o'clock West Coast time.
I was gonna say,
I'm not sure if it's 10 or that means what?
It's one o'clock.
Are you in, you're not at home.
You're like at the facility.
I'm at the office.
Yeah, I was gonna say that does not look
like a home environment,
a very sterile corporate office back room with no windows.
Do you have any windows?
No, I got windows right in front of me.
Just, yeah, I'm staring through them.
That's the way to be pointed.
But I'll make it up.
Right, well, I apologize to the family
for the 1 a.m. end time.
Steve, do you have any other questions, comments
or should we call it a night?
No, I think we could wrap it up.
I would like to just mention if anyone's looking
for additional aquaponic cannabis content,
Marty and I host a show once or twice a week,
every week on that, solely on that topic.
We have over 400 hours of additional content
if you wanna learn more about that.
And in fact, every single person that's been
on this panel tonight has had their own episodes.
So if you wanna find out, in fact,
Leanne gave us a tour of his facility on video.
It's quite very cool.
I have a tour of organic innovations out here in Oklahoma.
If you wanna see that, Marty has tours of his facility.
I know that Tanner's working on getting some footage
up of his stuff.
I'm not sure if he's posted that publicly or not,
but I know that Bane's got some stuff up publicly.
So if you wanna see any of our content,
we have all that on there
or check out their individual content as well.
And there's lots out there to explore.
Actually, Marty, what you're commenting on on YouTube,
can you just walk us through the OG,
the Lemon Kush, the Chernobyl?
Oh yeah, so I'm-
Shishkaberry.
Shishkaberry.
Yeah, so I was just trying to name off somebody,
tried to call me out and ask if I could name
all 16 streams that I have grown.
And so I was trying to list all of that.
So Starfighter OG, Lemon OG, Chernobyl,
Kerbal, Shishkaberry, Wifi OG,
Sour Strawberry, Mango Kush, Jack Hammer.
Also Jack Hammer by 9lb Frost.
I didn't put that one on the list yet.
Blackberry Frost, Pineapple by Banana Frost,
Thorsberry, Blue Cheese, Snowman.
I think I'm up to like 14 or 15 now.
I'm getting close.
That's all I got off the top of my head though.
Blue Cheese is great.
Like one of my favorites for sure.
It was my first run of outdoor.
You can see Aquaponic Blue Cheese
on my YouTube channel at AP Meds.
Most of those strains are documented on my YouTube grow.
So you can definitely check those out.
Yeah, I know a couple of us too have facility builds.
I know I have some on my channel, Marty does on his.
I know some of these guys as well have build videos
as well, so check those out.
Also someone else mentioned in chat, I almost forgot.
We have the Aquaponic Cannabis Facebook group.
It's facebook.com slash groups slash AP Canna.
If you're looking to join,
we have a huge group over 7,000 people from around the world.
We actually have quite a few people there now
from South Africa as well.
So it doesn't matter where you are on the planet.
I actually knew someone in Zimbabwe when I landed
that actually was from my Facebook group.
So you never know where you'll find some cool people
to hang out with and to get a J from
when you're on your travels.
And it's a great group.
It supports each other in a non-toxic way too.
It's Aquaponic Cannabis Growers
if you're just searching that.
And yeah, it's a great place.
Steve and I and a couple of other guys monitor it
pretty heavily for the usual trollness.
So yeah, come and share and learn
if you want to know about aquaponic cannabis growing.
It's a ton of information already there,
stuff that you can search through
and people post their stuff
and get their questions answered on a regular basis.
We also have a lot of resources in the file section too
if you're looking for help with individual things,
different Excel sheets and things that can help you out
as well with your grow.
I just want to say, gentlemen, thank you.
Thank you.
Slice.
Thank you.
I'm gonna lay you over there.
Be a sick day tomorrow.
What was the name of your farm again?
What's that?
Oh, so yeah, Stewart Farms.
Just gave it my last name.
Wasn't very creative.
Yeah, no, it's a Stewart Vertical Farms.
We're at a state, Steven New Brunswick,
but yeah, and we're just happy to be part
of this aquaponics community.
Peter, thanks for having me.
I thought you were just like telling people what you did,
like Stewart Farms, like it's a, like a verb, right?
Oh yeah, it is, yeah.
Stewart Farms, we farm aquaponically.
It's a foregone conclusion.
Stewart Farms aquaponically, that's right.
We're stewards, we're farming things.
It's what we do.
Appreciate your time, sir.
All right, guys.
Steve, thanks for putting it together
and rallying the crew.
I appreciate it.
It was, it's rare that I get to just sit back
and relax and just watch.
So thanks again.
And to everybody who's watching,
thanks for tuning in till 10 p.m. Pacific time,
1 a.m. Eastern Standard Time.
And on that, let's call it a night.
Thanks for having us.
I appreciate you just giving us a platform
to educate people on aquaponics.
No problem.
