I don't have any main strain.
I grow so many different strains.
I mean, definitely we try to stick with fuels because that's, like I said, where the market
is whether it's white or black at this point.
So a lot of sour diesel, different OGs.
I'm doing a lot of sour tangy this year, which has been great.
I'm right in line with the sour.
I mean, sometimes the tangy doesn't even come out as...
So it's a good sour.
I also grow a lot of CBD.
So right now I'm trying to just find out the one CBD that I can grow and do well with that's
at least an 18 to 1.
Because right now I have mostly a 2 to 1, the pineapple tsunami, which is a great, terpy,
awesome CBD, but it's 2 to 1, so I can't get to 18 to 1.
If I had an 18 to 1, I could make 1 to 1, 2 to 1, 6 to 1 products or offer that to other
people.
So right now I'm looking for just like the right high CBD, 18, 20 to 1 that I can grow
a lot of.
I mean, they're out there.
It's just getting them.
I'm doing AC right now.
We'll see how the cut I have comes out.
It's not the funnest plant to grow.
It's real floppy and flimsy.
Yeah.
And I did, I grew a lot of pine, I grew like 200 of these pineapple tsunami seeds last year
and then we kept clones of each one to try and do pheno hunting on which one we'd want
to stick with.
And I did find one that was 18 to 1 and I'm growing it right now and it's totally wigging
out at the late flower, putting off all these calyx-y veg hair growths.
I don't know how to better explain it, but it's a, yeah, it's, yeah, it's just not stable.
So yeah, I even went to a hemp expo in Colorado this spring and bought some seeds out there
and they were all high CBD.
You know, they're cannabis strains, they're calling it hemp out there just because they
pull them early so the THC levels don't get high.
So I bought some seeds and nothing worth working with.
I don't see how they're working with them.
They're auto flower and you know, you don't need that.
You want to, you want CBD to produce quite a bit more.
When you go into auto flower, you got smaller plants.
So yeah, still looking for a unique, terpy, high CBD that we can run with.
Because I want to be a full spec.
I'm all about them, you know, I'm all about cannabis as well being just as much as medicine.
I think everybody can use CBD in their life as well as THC.
So I want to cover both spectrums.
So given sort of what the market's demanding and producing for that, what are strains that
you'd want to like push onto the market and say, try this, like give it a chance?
I mean, I don't even know if we can have that conversation anymore.
It's not about strains, it's all about products these days.
It's not, it's the new vape pens and the oils and the infused products.
I mean, flowers, flower is hard to sell these days.
If you're infusing it into a product and then you just go into the generic sativa or indica,
I mean, the only, I'll give a props, I'm not a fan of their growing methods, but Jungle
Boys, how they've really just killing it with their strain releases and marketing and how
they do their thing.
So I mean, it's all up to the brand and how you can slay that marketing.
That'll kind of determine which strains are popular or not.
Everyone wants something new and I'd say the cookies fan especially has been really good
with putting out the winner strains, like Girl Scout cookies, cherry pie.
They did the Sunset Sherbert, gelato, and then the Do-Si-Do is coming from that.
So I think the cookies fan definitely is topped out in dominating the strain game and
don't really take too much credit for it.
I don't think they sell seeds or put their strains out there, but people that have worked
with their strains are creating a lot of unique, fruity, gassy, Girl Scout-y type strains and
it seems like those are going really well.
I haven't seen too much of them, but I hear Do-Si-Do and all these strains online.
It's like you want to learn how to succeed in the cannabis business, just look at Jungle
Boys and take some lessons.
They are killing it.
And they just grow pure salt.
I mean, it's all synthetic salt.
