This is the Dr. Dabber Switch, which is about as nice as you're going to get as far as an
e-nail rig.
It's totally portable, cordless.
You can tune in your temperature really easily.
And as you see, it hits really smoothly.
Yeah, it has a lot of...
She's about to take a hit of our grapefruit rosin, which was pressed from this grapefruit
flower.
Let me see the...
Oh, there it is.
There it is.
And then there it is on the nail.
100% solvent-free.
From that flower, which is grown where?
Up north.
North Cal.
North Cal.
Are you excited?
I'm super-duper excited.
All right.
Let's hit this.
All right.
You ready?
You're a dabber.
It's red.
As soon as it turns green, it's ready to go.
When it turns green?
Yep.
So they kind of dummy-proof it.
Yeah, definitely.
And you can choose as much as you want as far as size of your inhale and combine that with
your temperature and really customize.
I'm sorry to blow it in your face.
No.
Yeah.
And it preserves a lot of flavors.
Is it still going?
It absolutely is.
And the bubbler is just killer.
I mean, you can't go wrong with that.
All right.
So we're a fan of the Dr. Dabber.
Definitely a fan of the Dr. Dabber.
I love it.
The innovation is dabbing technology.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
That's like, you don't need to blow a torch.
You don't need to worry about even what your temperature is.
The previous method, which still has some validity, is you blow torch and your temperature
gun so you know exactly where you're getting your titanium nail at.
This is just a standard rig that we converted into just your traditional rig, just three-stage
percolator.
Okay.
So talk to me about, as we think about, I guess the concentrates market can be split
up into, obviously, dabbing, but also oil for vape pens and stuff like that.
Yeah, definitely.
So what are you guys seeing in the market and how did you settle on what you're doing?
Well, a big part of what we settled on is just our own end user experience with concentrates.
There is a bigger push for a response to solvents being used in response to BHO going with solvent-free.
So I've been making that product for a few years now.
So I also had some insight in recognizing that we could still get a good quality product
without having to utilize any sort of solvents.
And you're always going to have people that are diehard BHO fans or solvent ethanol fans,
and that's fine because you can still make good quality product with those methods.
Ours is just really making it simple, kind of going back to how it used to be.
This is heat and pressure and basically hashish and full spectrum, which is another thing
you see across the board with tinctures, topicals, pop-on Barkley.
They're big on full spectrum for all of the tinctures, and we definitely respect them as a brand.
And so their extraction is all like pressing?
Exactly. They're doing the same thing that we're doing as far as using just heat and pressure
to extract their hash oil and then using that, homogenizing that with their custom blend of oils
for their various products.
So then what's great about it is once you've dialed in your hash product,
you can find out what your cannabinoid ratios are and then just combine that
with whatever carrier oil you're working with and you can really get a consistent product
that's like full spectrum, 100% quality, every time.
Talk about like, you know, everybody thinks of RASM presses as kind of like you're doing small batch.
So how do you paint the vision of a manufacturing facility that's doing it at scale?
Really, in order to get the quality, it needs to be at that scale.
It's really impossible to completely upscale in the same way that you could with BHO or ethanol machines
just because of the physics of it.
So what it requires is a lot of labor.
So this product is born out of love.
If you're going to be involved in making RASM, you're going to want to be committed to doing things
not necessarily the easy way.
It takes a lot of fine-tuning, a lot of back and forth.
Each bag, just by looking at each bag that we pack full of cannabis,
each one's a little bit different, a little bit thicker, a little bit longer, wider.
And it's amazing what you can pull out of it, though.
And so that affects how quickly you're going to press down,
what pressure you're going to start with, end up with.
What are the things that the two of you talk about when you're sitting there pressing flour all day long?
What did he bitch to you about recently, and what did he bitch about to you recently,
or was frustrated about or excited about?
Well, the other day, he wanted a little bit lighter color out of the rosin.
So I had to do some experimenting on the temperature and also on the micron size of the bag.
And it took a few hours, about half the day, but I gave him the results that he wanted.
And what was the answer? How did you get it lighter?
I used a smaller micron bag, and it reduces your yield, but it gives you a little bit higher quality
and lowered the temperature just a little bit, which also can reduce the yield.
But it's a lot of experimenting, and each bag, you drop down five degrees,
it still doesn't give you the effect you want. You've got to pack another bag and try it again.
So it takes a lot of time.
You really paid attention to the variables of temperature, pressure, and then micron size time,
and then bag geometry, which is how big is it?
Because there's the pressure of your machine, but where's the pressure at the bag?
And so that is directly related to your bag geometry.
So once you dial in one, you just have to keep pushing forward with answering some of the other variables.
But it's working as far as manufacturing. It's doable.
We're working off of one press, and we could definitely do a lot more.
And what's the square inches or feet of that press?
It's only a...
Yeah, it stands up yay tall. It's like right here, end of the table to about...
But the surface is like two feet by two feet.
Oh, the surface? Well, the actual heat plate is only about 12 inches by two and a half inches, three inches.
And the reason why you want that is... So I've worked with larger plates as well.
So if you imagine a really large plate, you can get a larger mass that you are pressing,
but it's not going to press as evenly.
And then once that oil is starting to be extracted, you want it to get off those plates as quickly as possible
and cool down as quickly as possible.
So that's why it's not very wide or it's not very deep.
Exactly. So a narrow plate, you get your bag packed up right to it.
All of that squish is going to come out and then you can even collect it onto a cold plate if you want,
or something that's been in the freezer.
So it's almost like getting back to the hair straightener.
Exactly. Yeah.
Shape versus square, which in my head was what I kind of thought.
And there are presses out there that are square shape.
Pure Pressure makes a great press. I love their press.
And that's what I use.
And the reason why I like them more than anything was their attention to their plate sizes
and really not focusing on more pressure means more yield, because that's not necessarily true.
There's a sweet spot that you need to find, and you can actually get great yield and maintain quality
without going super excessive pressure or super excessive heat,
because those are the two typical ways that you typically boost up yield.
Yeah, it seems like you have multiple variables that, you know,
the heat, the temperature on the micron side, plate dimensions.
Absolutely. Even how fast the plate compresses.
So if you're with flour, you want a fast compression.
When you're doing something like heath or bubble hash, something that's a little bit more dense,
you want to slow down that press.
You could potentially make the bag explode or cause it to unheat, like heat unevenly.
So there's a lot of factors.
What's nice about it, though, it's mechanical.
It's simple. It's not complex. It's simple. It's still a mechanical process.
It's easy to control your variables. Your runs are fast.
And once you figure out for this particular strain or this technique,
you dial it in, it's just choo-choo and go.
So, okay, a press is about 12 inches by 2 to 3 inches.
So when you guys are doing this at scale, how many presses do you have in your facility?
Or how many do you envision having in your facility?
I'd say probably like 5 to 10, just really depending on room.
I mean, ultimately, that's what it really boils down to.
And just going all day, 24-7. Absolutely 24-7.
So what are some, when you guys are talking to each other,
like innovations you want to see in presses?
Like is there either stuff you're seeing, stuff people are talking about,
stuff on your wish list?
Something that I'd like to see is something that I like.
I mean, I think peer pressure has got the plate size down
and the right amount of tonnage that they're using.
But I also appreciate a hand press.
It'd be nice to see a good quality combination of the two.
Especially when you're...
It's automated.
Yeah, exactly. Especially when you're first learning to press,
there's nothing that replaces that connection to feeling the bag
and really understanding physically what's going on.
And that actually, as you get more versed in the extraction,
you can use that as a quick way to diagnose a remedy
or do some troubleshooting.
By just like, alright, what is actually going on physically at the bag?
It seems kind of silly, but it works.
So, okay, you guys are all rosin.
What else, just from a personal interest level, are you interested in from a...
Do you want to get your face tainted?
In like five minutes.
I am definitely interested in tinctures.
One of the things that I really appreciate about our rosin and our rosin line
is we can also make, you know, instead of having the edible,
where you don't really know what your dosing is,
I'd like having a nice one, you know, milliliter dropper with it at a dose
so that I know where it's at.
And I also know that that has come from like a solvent free,
I mean, and it's full spectrum.
That and, I mean, actually those are the two big things,
I mean, rosin and tinctures really.
But are you saying tinctures that come from rosin?
Yeah, definitely.
So taking...
Taking rosin, oh, it's really hard.
So what's live resin based on?
Like how do you do live resin?
So live resin, I mean, that's basically cryogenic technique
where you are making sure that the trichomes on the plant are frozen.
Right, you know, when you, right at that time before, just before harvest,
where the terpenes on your fresh plant are so like just terpene,
they smell so good, and then, you know, you cut, you dry, and you cure,
and it doesn't quite have that same impact.
And that's because all those terpenes have volatilized.
So that, what the live resin processes and like fresh frozen,
is they're taking care, taking that plant, trimming it,
and then within hours, hopefully instantaneously,
getting it into a freezer that's flash frozen.
And then that preserves all those terpenes.
That's really exciting.
You can use that same flower to make rosin, BHO, any sort of extraction,
and you're going to have a much wider terpene profile to play with,
and, you know, a different experience for the product because of that.
So it's the monoterpenes that go first.
Absolutely. Yeah, they're smaller than molecular weight.
So it seems like everything should or is focused on kind of
how do you keep as much of the essence of that plant in the final product, right?
Exactly.
So what innovations are you seeing there in nothing,
losing none of the essence of what was in the flower the day it was harvested?
I think really fresh frozen is probably the closest thing,
and just doing what we're doing with rosin is trying to create a product
that is as close to the flower as possible.
So like if you smell, you know, the flower that's been pressed
or the rosin that's been pressed from the flower,
they have the same terpene profile, the same.
Well, so since a rosin press does use heat, there's obviously something that's,
so what are you guys seeing? Like what are the first terpenes to go?
Off the top of my head, I couldn't tell you, but I could tell you they go,
start to come off around 170 Celsius.
And, oh man, it's not Lin-Liu, but at the top of my head, I can't tell you,
but trying to do low temp presses is really what is going to capture and keep all of those.
So what temperature are you guys pressing?
Between 170, this is in Celsius, or between 90 and 170 Celsius.
And so you're going to actually start to get terpenes volatilizing much sooner than that,
not at 170 Celsius, but like at 70 degrees, like even at room temperature.
And so trying to make sure that, you know, you keep as much as you can without,
you know, still getting a product, that's the balance,
because you still have to have yield, you still have to get something.
You could use all pressure and very, very low temperature and get, you know,
capture the most terpene profile, but you're going to probably get a tenth to twentieth
of what you should if you, you know, kind of bump up the temperature and find that happy medium.
Does that imply that you could do a couple runs?
Absolutely.
Like a first run at almost no temperature, but...
Exactly. And you can also do mechanical separations.
So we've been able to do like low temp mechanical separations and get THCA.
That's actually something I'm really excited about.
And it's really nice to be able to get, again, THCA without having to use solvents.
And it's a real straightforward process with rosin.
You're doing a mechanical separation through really fine screens, multiple runs,
and you're collecting your terpenes that are pouring off,
and so you're collecting that, and your product is actually what's on the inside,
which would typically be your waste product, you know, the chip, the flower chip,
or the key chip that you throw away or recycle.
The actual product is THCA crystal that's been, the last stuff we got tested was like 99.6,
all without solvents.
Any of the shy guy over there?
How can you tell?
Wow.
Any parting words from the mad scientist?
I'm actually his apprentice.
Wow, he's the master.
He really is.
The disciple and the master.
I'm just learning the ropes, but I think I'm on my way to really learning the chemistry behind the plant.
What's something he's taught you that's kind of like blown your mind,
or like that you've been like, your brain hurt because it got such a workout?
Well, at first I didn't believe him that each bag would be different,
and each one would take, you know, you have to keep your eyes on it to an extreme, really,
and you've got to know how it responds and how it likes to be treated,
and it really is an art, Rosin Pressing,
and it's taken my interest to a whole other level,
and I really love every second of it.
www.rosinpressing.com
