I mentioned to you we have a few friends out here from Denmark, a couple friends down from
Canada.
More and more, it seems the world is recognizing, thankfully, that California really is the
epicenter in many respects, at least with respect to the craft, as well as the culture,
and I definitely would say the genetics.
How do you see that playing out as far as tourism, as far as people coming here, and
this essentially being the holy land, for lack of a better term, when it comes to the
industry that is cannabis?
Oh man, I think it has an unbelievable potential because California is already clocking over
a billion in tourist money.
So it's already a global tourist destination, and all over California, it's not just one
spot.
San Francisco has an ungodly amount of people that want to come and see the beauty of San
Francisco, the culture of San Francisco.
You have people that are going to Southern California to do the Hollywood experience,
and that is unbelievably populated with people from every part of the earth coming into it.
So you have these global attractions, you get into Napa area, the Wine County, same
thing, global attraction, up around from Humboldt County, Redwoods, global attraction, and then
all of a sudden you put cannabis in there, and it doesn't mean that the people all have
to come here to get high, it just means that they get a window into a world that they heard
about but never could see.
And it starts to allow people, tourists, to be able to come to regions where you had people
living in, like where we are in Humboldt, these are specifically some of the most beautiful
regions in the world.
I tell people, being from the Bay Area, the most beautiful part of California, your point,
is north of San Francisco, it's all the way up to Crescent.
And Humboldt's stunning.
Oh, yeah.
And what you find is you find all these individuals that form this really interesting relationship
with their property, so they always highlighted all the grows that were contaminated facilities,
but in every population you're going to have outliers that are dirty.
The majority of people were really pretty good land stewards and built a really nice
relationship with the land they lived on and in the region.
And what that does, it allows people to come up and see what's it like to live in the country
where you have an industry that was hidden that can now be seen, and what are the people
like.
And because cannabis people are eclectic and interesting, generally, it allows the tourists
to really have a different type of connection with the people, and the people, for the first
time, have to be open about what they do, and they know that they need to be open so
they can get their products out in the world.
And they're also no longer afraid of getting arrested, so they can actually laugh and feel
good about what they've done with the public.
Because you can only do that privately.
Because the shoulders aren't as tense.
Yeah.
Even friends I grew up with that are growers are like...
And all of a sudden, you've got some of the realest human beings, and they're the opposite
of a lot of the corporate, because the whole thing with cannabis was that you were basically
an independent producer that could function in all aspects on your own with very little
oversight, very little accountability to others, and as long as you made enough money, you
had time.
So you live this unbelievable life that only the mega wealthy really live, because no one
else has time.
And so all the cultivators had time, which gave them time to develop personalities and
eclectic hobbies and things.
And it makes it interesting because it's like going to a circus, and there's so many little
facets that are unique.
To me, that's the growing community.
Where everybody is really a unique character in a play.
They didn't have to homogenize, because they didn't have to fit in.
And when the tourists meet the people, they really enjoy the company.
So I watch it.
I go, when farmers meet customers, it is a really real solid, cool thing.
Very true.
And then you'll have all these facilities that people get to check out, product assortments
that will be there.
People will be able to come in and experience cannabis in bath bombs.
So you take your wife and go hiking, and she's like, I'd love to take a cannabis bath bomb.
So she feels wonderful.
She goes, wow, that's how I consume cannabis.
Exactly.
Through the skin.
Your grandmother uses it on her feet.
Your brother only likes to take a candy.
You're smoking flour.
You're able to use cannabis in all these ways that are readily available, accessible.
Tourists from all over the world want to experience it.
And if you make it pleasant, and you give them all the different choices, and you allow
them to make the choices, then they get to experience cannabis in some of the most beautiful
regions in the world.
And it allows them to be able to relax.
And what I see with most of the tourists is that they're overworked in their tech stuff.
Most people are doing data entry tech, very computer-driven work.
And they're frozen in a thing.
And you get them out in the country, and you get them into cannabis growing regions, and
you got yourself an incredible experience.
Different than wine, because wine, even though the facilities are gorgeous and wine is an
incredible substance, you have a different impact from wine in terms of it's a depressant.
It is.
100%.
As a drug.
And so I don't knock wine or the industry.
Never mind what the grapes do to the soil, but that's a whole other subject, too, right?
And what chemicals can be used.
But ultimately, the grape industry does some unbelievable work on visual beauty and satisfying
the individual's experience visiting that place.
And that's really where we model cannabis in a sense is that we realize that people
want good escapism.
And cannabis provides it, and it doesn't have to be necessarily in a psychoactive way.
And the people that produced it provide escapism to them because they're very unique individuals.
It'd be like going back into Appalachia and talking to the Moonshine runners and saying,
hey, let me hop in your car and go drift around.
Because Moonshine turned into NASCAR.
Oh, yeah.
100%.
But I think it is.
I think of some of the growers.
I'm a huge fan of you guys, but even the family over at Hidden Prairie or Eel River.
I mean, to your point, everyone is so unique.
It is eclectic.
You've done some world travels.
You can attest just like I've been to Australia.
I've been to South America.
I've been across Europe.
The culture, it's uniform.
It's so interesting because the religious beliefs might shift or the language might
shift or certain elements of the ideology.
But overall, it is good vibes.
That's crazy because that's kind of like almost an unofficial mantra of our industry,
right?
It's as long as it's good vibes.
But speaking specifically about you, because I don't know if people know.
I mean, you really remind me, Kevin, and this is going back to being a California guy, almost
like the Huell Hauser of this industry.
This guy, Huell Hauser, originally from Tennessee, he had come out and do a series called California
Gold.
Nobody embraced.
I mean, this guy really, he knew California better than most native Californians.
That's what I love about you.
And coming from the East Coast, coming to an interesting story.
That's a whole other show.
But your background coming here, you have so embraced not just California, not just
this industry, but the whole aspect.
Some of the things you're doing with Humboldt, specifically on, to your point, the Chamber
of Commerce and the stuff to get the tourism and bring some much needed life into that
area, right?
You tie it all together because prior, cannabis stigmatized a lot of the legitimate industries,
even though they benefited from it, but publicly causing problems.
And now with that stigma removed, you're able to really start to be honest with each other
as business owners.
And you can all start to figure out how do you benefit each other in a way that benefits
the region so that you have a longevity because we all live there.
So it's not colonialism.
It's not extraction.
It's not resources leave, money leaves.
It's hopefully resources are rebuilt, improved, and capital remains so that you end up having
a better quality community.
And I'm just dumb about it, man.
The new billboards that are going up, Laura from the Southern Humboldt Visitors Bureau,
they put together this incredible campaign with some of the other business owners, Elevate
the Magic.
And they have some phenomenal billboards that are going up that are going to talk about
America's cannabis heartlands.
And you have publications like the North Coast Journal that putting out the dispensary guides
and they're helping with the picture, the visual.
They're helping shape the tone, but in a way that really reflects the region, not because
they're trying to be your distributor.
They're trying to highlight it.
So it's this beautiful internal development versus an external force to drive a result.
It's about really getting the people to be able to see what's happening and help them
with the things they need, which are things that are opposite of what they've done.
Everybody's really good at hiding.
Oh, yeah.
It's a big skill set.
Everybody thinks that's easy, but it's hard.
Just like it's hard to be well known and to have the community say, okay, we'll all agree
that we don't need to be shamed.
We can advertise it.
We can have quality advertising.
And then we can have cannabis people that are coming to see cannabis.
How do we steer them into the hotels?
How do we steer them into vacation packages that are going to be fun for them, that are
going to reflect Humboldt County's lifestyle, which is unbelievably diverse from heavy coast,
pound and surf, beautiful rivers, stunning plains, gorgeous mountains.
Everything you want is there.
Everything is so much.
It's such a night and day difference from Southern California.
Or even Stetson Beach, quite honestly.
Yeah, yeah.
Nobody on.
Stetson Beach, many people.
Out in Petrolia, no people.
And so it's a privilege to walk on the beach with nobody on the damn beach, except you
and your friends.
You're like, what is unreal?
And even when you guys throw a party, and again, this is in your backyard, but talking
about Northern Knights or Reggae on the River, right?
You're tapping into the Gen Y, the Z generation.
But I love how even when they come up, you guys are like, hey, we're on the river, no
glass.
We're all about eco.
We have the water stations.
Like everything that goes on in Humboldt is still respecting what Humboldt was always
about.
All the way back to which we've discussed before, it wasn't the hippie movement as much
as it was the forestry, right?
I mean, you've talked about that.
I mean, I love the history lesson that you give when people come up there and say, you
guys got it all wrong.
Like, this is what really happened.
This was the evolution of how cannabis came to be in this area of the country.
And people are passionate about it.
And I think the kids today are too, though.
The problem is that what happens is you get educated how to behave by the world around
you.
And when it's in a disposable world and very transient, fast-paced, no need to make connections,
that's what you learn.
But when you come up to a smaller town, you go out on the coast, you go into a smaller
neighborhood, all of a sudden people are more watchful of each other because you learn to
rely on each other.
And it starts to humanize people.
And that's why, you know, small-town Americana or small-town anywhere in the world is always
so rich.
Because you get to see people at their finest because their desire to be good is that.
It's their desire to be good.
There's no ulterior motive.
They want to be able to do that.
So when you can get people into the country and you can let them enjoy being in a clean
environment and they realize that that's part of it, that we don't throw trash on the ground,
they don't.
And people start to really slow down.
Just take it away.
They put the phone down.
They might actually talk to you in person instead of text you while they're standing
next to you.
And that's important because it starts to get you back on a more grounded level so that
you can then return to your busy, hectic life living in the city that looks like someone
dumped a trash can over the top of the fire hydrant.
And deal with it.
And then you know you can go to the country, go to the ocean and find some kind of balance.
But when you go there, you don't bring the bad habits of the city.
You bring the good habits, which is understanding that things move, but also understanding that
you don't have to move in tune with it the same way.
We talked about just now, touching on, but maybe getting a little bit more into one log.
I mean, this is something where people that aren't from California aren't familiar or
those that haven't been here for decades.
It's kind of special when you come up 101.
A lot of people don't know this.
You ask someone that's from San Diego, LA, San Francisco, Sacramento, if you ever knew
there to be a stop sign or a single lane on 101 and they go, what are you crazy?
This is the biggest freeway it runs through our state.
You go to a little town called Garberville and you will find that stop sign.
You will find that crosswalk across 101.
And that's what amazed me again, growing up in Marin County, being a kid from the bay
that people don't know just how sacred and special it is when you're coming up into the
proper triangle.
And you guys are right there.
You've got one log.
I mean, that's the first thing I see when I come into town.
Nevermind the huge tree that it was named after.
So tell me a little bit about what you guys are doing there and what you have in the works.
I know you have some plans as far as expanding on the space you have in 2019 as well.
Yeah, no, the we got really fortunate, though.
The one log site right on the 101 is a historic tourist destination with coffee shop, tourist
things, redwood carvings, a lot of cool old school, big redwood carvings.
And it used to have a lot of salmon that was sold out of there back in the day when the
salmon was really hot in the river before we had the droughts and some of the offshore
issues.
So the salmon business was hot at this spot.
And people from all over would be driving down one to one.
They'd pull in.
There's a beautiful grove, stunning redwoods.
And the one log itself is a giant one log redwood tree that they used to drive around
the country on the back of a truck in the 50s.
And it took six months to carve out with chisels.
And they built a house inside it.
And you can actually walk around inside the log like it's a house.
Such a crazy story.
It's trippy, you know?
It's so cool.
My partners grabbed this facility and we put a dispensary in it, the nursery.
There's a new extraction, a giant extraction facility.
But all these things are tucked away.
You can't see them.
So you can see the store when you roll up because of the signage.
But everything else is completely woven into these groves so that you never really think
you're in an industrial area at all.
No, you walk in.
I walked in and I was like, whoa.
You have no idea.
Yeah, the whole building is a nursery.
The whole basement is a nursery underneath.
The basement's a whole...
It's all blown out.
But then you're on five acres.
I mean, that's what I think we mentioned earlier.
With three-eighths of a mile of riverfront.
Yeah.
And you got the Northern Knights that you do in the backyard.
Yeah, Reggae on the River is right next door.
I mean, this is a whole...
Northern Knights is my partner.
So they're the Northern Knights crew.
Yeah, great guys too.
Oh, they're great guys.
Excellent.
And the High Times is next door, which is the old reggae site.
Yep.
So we catch some of that stuff.
And what we're doing right now is we're putting in the development of some form of visitor
center.
Yep.
So that what we have an ability to do is start to really get the tourists in.
And we're doing that.
And what we're doing right now is we're putting in the development of some form of visitor
center.
Yep.
So that what we have an ability to do is start to really get the tourists to come into the
facility and then help them understand where to go because you need...
What do you do when you're out in the middle of nowhere?
There's no real directories.
And there's pamphlets and stuff.
But what you need is more comprehensive.
And interactions.
And packages.
Yeah.
And river guides and hikes.
And the ecotourism component of Humboldt just has to be really highlighted because it's
kind of hard to know what to do without having some form of help.
And then we will be able to put in all the farmer's gear.
So we'll be able to sell farmer's clothes and all their branding labels.
And let the people come in and pick this stuff up.
And we can have music events in the back.
We can have farmer events.
I'll be able to put the Golden Tarp event back out on it, which is the cup.
And I didn't do it this year because we didn't have any ability legally to do it without
being in a state fairground.
It's been a year of transition.
Yeah, I just paused the cup.
You guys are patient.
I just paused the cup.
And we'll do it again in the back of the facility next year.
So we have this ability to hold all these really killer events.
And it allows people to come off the highway and pull in the parking lot.
And we have ADA bathrooms, which is crucial because it allows you to catch a population
of everybody.
Yes.
And there's a food.
There's a small restaurant.
There's a gift shop.
It's all Humboldt County centric.
So it lets people come in and feel like they're in Humboldt.
And then when we built the dispensary, one of the partners, Jonah, was a master bricklayer.
And so we glued like 14,000, glued and shot 14,000 hand-cut redwood blocks to the wall
to make it look like you're inside a log.
It's visually wild.
Hopefully the guys can dub in.
I'm coming up on Monday.
I'll send them a picture.
But you can't understand this until you actually go there.
It's trippy looking, man.
It's phenomenal.
And so you know you're in the redwoods, but it has modern amenities.
So what it does is it lets people that want to escape their digital life and be green,
but they can still use the phone and they can still have normal things that they need
to function in the way they've built their worlds.
But they can get out of that world and go enjoy the river and enjoy the grandfather
tree next door to us.
There's massive trees.
Which is phenomenal.
And there's the Houston Grove, which is some of the most beautiful region in the area.
And it's just really nice to be able to be so open.
I didn't mind being private.
I'll be honest.
Because that's what I do.
You know what I mean?
That's what I grew up doing.
You've been private for a while.
But I gotta tell you.
I didn't mind that either.
But I love the new renaissance.
I call it a renaissance all the time because it's an awakening, which is what a renaissance
is.
Oh, for sure.
For sure.
And I think the home stream can touch cultivators.
Businesses can benefit from the new tourists that'll come in.
And they will.
So there's a transition.
Humboldt's going through some hard times.
But the fact that you were able to start having a California that's so big that there's not
that many places left that aren't that crowded.
And Humboldt's one of them.
And it's just a trip up the 101.
Greg Foster did an incredible job bringing in airline.
So we have direct flights to L.A., direct flights to Denver.
I was up at Humboldt County Grove.
So I was saying to one of my friends, I'm doing a direct flight to L.A.
I'm like, what are you talking about?
No, they call it the Investor Express.
And they have one in San Francisco.
They used to have the Frisco one every day.
But now they got Frisco, L.A. and Denver every day.
So you can go from Humboldt to Colorado, the East Coast in a single hop.
You don't got to go to another hub airport and jump out.
You can go to L.A.
So it's an hour and a half to L.A., 35, 40 minutes to Frisco.
And all of a sudden, people are coming in to visit and hang out.
And I just I hope I live long enough to be able to see how this will change because it'll
be like Napa and the wine region where at one time it was like this and then it became
so developed.
And Napa was.
I got to tell you, my mom moved up there.
Parents who divorced as young or long story short, my mom moved up there off Silverado
Trail.
I remember when Napa wasn't cool.
Same thing.
People don't know downtown Napa was was pretty ratchet, as the kids say.
It was kind of tired.
Then all of a sudden, to your point, Napa, Yachtville.
And I mean, there's Sonoma County.
But it's come a long way.
And I agree.
I'd love to see that in Humboldt.
Love to see it in Garberville.
I mean, all the way up the corridor to Fortuna, Eureka.
All the way.
Yeah.
And the bottom line is you have these beautiful northern regions that are under populated
and they'll never be overpopulated because they're not built for the flat ground sprawl.
The big city.
But they're definitely designed for people to escape the sprawl and to go enjoy themselves
and meet nice people, smoke some really good grass and see some visual beauty that's just,
you know, you can't just you can't you can't film it.
I know.
No, I can't wait to come back.
No, I can't wait.
So looking forward to it.
It's going to be great.
When I stopped by, it's supposed to be a half an hour.
We ended up together.
I want to say it was about four hours.
Yeah, you know, it's really like.
There's better signal and reception up there than there is here.
And it's the one place where I really didn't need it.
I was like, dude, this is I've been wanting it.
You know me like I travel.
This my 28th show this year to bet between domestic international.
And I mean, like, that's a weird thing, dude, like hanging out, talking to you.
I just humble.
It feels like home.
Like it's just this is a place I'd love to come home to kind of.
I know me too.
That's why that's why I work so hard.
Smart guy.
I got lucky that I was so fortunate to move there in the early 90s.
Yeah.
I just never want to leave.
So, you know, you work really hard to force whatever you possibly can positive forward
so that you're able to enjoy that.
It's a gift, man.
What's up, boys?
All right.
I think we're on.
Yep.
Thanks.
