Here though is with other terpene profiles, with weird OGs and chems and all that stuff,
I love that kind of stuff, but there's no real reference in my life, so therefore I
kind of just take it for what it is, versus like lemon or citrus, I guess pine even to
some extent, if it's sharp enough just in those smells, it's almost like you close your
eyes and all of a sudden you're not smelling pine.
That's a crazy phenomenon that I see just with these certain varieties where I already
recognize that smell so heavily from a different place, that it's especially, I don't know,
it's just strange when I smell it in pot, and it doesn't just smell like some other
type of cannabis.
Wait, but what were you saying about the citrus?
What you started saying before you moved on to the pine?
Oh, well the citrus I think more so than the pine is that we have such a close relationship
with it since we're young.
How many oranges have we eaten in our life?
Is there an association to health and vitality and vitamin C and all these things that even
when it's going fresh and clean?
Absolutely, I mean I guess when we're talking about the citrus, you go into all the things
of like that lemonade or the citrus smells in general making us more happy, we have this
attraction to them.
But specifically what I'm talking about is this phenomenon like there's a lot of weed,
especially like a lot of the more dank smells that I'm really interested in, but they all
are like pot.
People think about pot when they smell it, and it's a cool dank smell, but it's weed.
I'm talking about these specific types of weed and I see it a lot with orange where
if you just close your eyes and you smell it, you don't really smell weed.
You smell some crazy citrus experience.
But you know it's not an orange.
No, but there's enough variation within there.
Like maybe it takes 10 different citrus ones, but then there's those ones that aren't like
citrus weed, they're like citrus citrus.
And that's just a crazy experience when you close your eyes.
It's so weird.
Yeah.
I was in the garden and I'm like, I don't grow that plant in here, but I smelt it.
Because like that was so pungent in the air, and then it comes out in the plant.
So what it smells.
Yeah, and then furthermore when it ties in with this other thing that I don't, we talk
about it, but it's like there's these certain varieties.
I saw it with the Sour Tangy.
I've got it like the HP 13.
This is older strain that we used to mess with.
A couple like diesels over the years will do this where it's this lingering mouth-coding,
throat-coding flavor that lasts.
And it's especially crazy.
And not all strains do that.
A lot of ones taste like weed.
When, yeah, it could smell.
I have the greatest pot, whether it's somebody else's or mine, and it smells really good.
And when you smoke it, it tastes like weed.
And then there's other weed and you smell it, and then you smoke it and it tastes and
smells and whatever the experience of smoking it's of that.
Of whatever you smelled before it was being burned, now you're tasting and smelling all
in the experience of, yeah.
And that's...
I'll pack it.
And what are your thoughts on that?
Oh my God, you're putting me on the spot.
My brain's fried.
Yeah, I know, depending on...
There's just so many ways that could go.
How are you?
Bro, I got this...
I've been growing this dog shit strain.
What I'm looking for is this certain pheno of my, you know, of my cultivar where when
I walk by it, you smell...
It's like nose curling, like disgusting.
Like you could taste dog shit in the air.
Like it's just like...
This is disgusting.
And to the point that it even tricks me and I'll look at my shoe.
And it's my plant and I'm breeding it.
You know, I'm breeding for that.
And I...
It smells like dog shit, like 100%.
And the nastiest plant, the nastiest dog shit, nose curling, you could taste that shit in
the air.
It's like, you're like, ah, that's the plant.
That's what I'm looking for.
That's the ultimate.
I'm like, that's the one.
The one that's just straight up.
So that's what I started breeding with, you know.
And then we started breeding a high CBGA variety of that starting from dog shit, which I really
don't know at this point if it's how I'm getting like 3% to 4% CBGA, whether it's some interaction
between the bacteria and the fungus and the plants, or it's my special...
It's the light manipulation or the full spectrum lighting, whatever I'm doing with the lighting,
or it's the genetics, you know, or a combination of all of it.
So I'm trying to figure that out, which is kind of like searching for like three needles
at once in a haystack.
In a tornado.
While it's my production facility, so I'm doing like research, not only am I pushing
the edge on my production facility, you know, on a bunch of other levels with soil and JADAM,
living, whatever, full spectrum lighting, but then I'm like looking for these needles
in the haystacks while I'm doing production.
So I'm doing research while I'm doing production, which is kind of, you know, I don't really
recommend it.
It's really like writing a dangerous edge, you know, because there's a lot of variables.
So I kind of backed off of the research last year and put the seeds aside, you know, those
seeds aside, you know, just so I could focus on them and just survive, you know, through
compliance.
So that way I could have the opportunity to pick that project back up.
You know what I mean?
Because I was like, all right, this is just too much going on.
I can't, I'm going to, I'm going to blow this project.
And even, and whatever I did, yeah, I just didn't, you know, cause I would have to do
tons of testing to test for the CBGA when, you know, we were getting like three, 4% at
a week, like nine, eight, nine in like three months.
It was still there like two months, all my weed.
I went through all my test results because I wasn't looking for it at the time.
So then I went back through all my test results and I saw it in all of my test results of
that cultivar that I'd been running.
So then I was like, oh, cause well, that's what I was, that's what I've been breeding
for.
I just didn't know I was breeding for that until I figured out.
Cause one day I was in my bar and I was in my office and I was like, it was just nagging
at me, like, go look at the test.
And like, and I was like, okay.
And my wife really needed me to do some paper, something.
And I was like, ah, and I was like, I got to pull it up.
She's like, came in.
What are you doing?
She's like, I need that paperwork.
And I was like, I just have to look at this, you know, I'm sorry.
And I'm just, it's talking, telling me to look.
I was like, holy shit.
Well, that's like 4% CBGA.
Huh?
And then I called the lab and was talking to them about it.
I was like, okay, that's the, she was like, that's insanely high.
Like you normally it's like under 1%.
It was like, um, it was like 3.8%, you know?
Buyers, if you've got a high cultivar.
It was like 17%, it was like 17% THC, you know, 3 point something, 3.8% CBGA.
Wow.
Yeah.
I was like, whoa, okay.
So then I went back looking through all my tests, saw that it was reoccurring.
Um, then I tried to do some more experiments.
Didn't have enough money to do all the testing that I would need to do on, on, you know, how many seeds I pop.
And I have to test each plant at week five, six, seven, eight, nine.
And then have clones and cuttings of each one of those plants.
And let's, and the metric, I mean, I was like, well, yeah, I just don't have, uh, you know, in Sonoma County is not really making it easy.
So they're just like, no.
You're like, can I just have this?
They're like, no.
You're like, well, I just like, I was already doing that.
They're like, no.
You know, so you're just kind of like, what are you doing?
Yeah.
So you're only doing what you were doing.
That's it.
Nothing more until, you know, they give you your use.
So I'm waiting for them to three.
It's almost three years.
I'm going to have a three year anniversary, uh, party, uh, that I didn't get my use permit yet.
It's going to be a great party.
Yeah, no, totally.
You know, it's like, yay.
Um, that's why I call it the Sonoma triangle where use permits go to disappear.
Ha ha ha ha.
Ha ha ha ha.
I have to smoke with that.
Sad but true.
Right.
You've heard of the Bermuda triangle and the Emerald triangle.
The mystery.
Yeah.
We've got the Sonoma triangle.
Yeah.
Where my use permit is like disappeared somewhere.
It's it's it's it's complete.
It's close.
Anyway.
So yeah, that's been my life.
That's the script you've heard.
They're complete.
They're close.
We're working on it.
Thank you very much.
No, we talked with our planner.
It's close.
My wife is like, yeah, yeah, no, my wife's on it.
She's really good at crawling up everybody's ass.
She's she I called I was like, you are a proctologist, baby, man.
That because that's what you have to be to get it done.
You know what I mean?
So.
So yeah, that's how I.
Proctologist.
Yeah, yeah, totally.
Yeah, she's very thorough.
So yeah, and generally people are wrong.
So you have to do it yourself and and represent yourself and trust your instincts and and just do what you know.
And if you don't like the answer somebody gives you, it's everything's like the DMV.
You know, you go to the next person.
Just the world.
The world is like the DMV.
If you don't like that, everybody's wrong.
Half everybody's wrong.
Nobody knows what they're doing, no matter what your lawyers and doctors, everybody's flailing or winging it on some level.
So just like, you know, you go to the next person.
It's the prerequisite before you because.
Wait, wait, wait.
To DMV for a month.
Yeah, because because because perception is everything.
Nothing is what it seems.
And our strengths are our weaknesses and our weaknesses are our strengths.
You know, so.
And like you were sometimes on the guards, that means you don't do anything.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
That's the hardest thing to do is nothing.
That's why I call it the no till nothing style, because, you know, the hardest thing to do is nothing.
A lot of times it's just human nature to want to impose our will and fuck shit up.
That's just like, you know, so we feel useful.
We create a fire so we can put it out.
But like then it's just like that downward spiral.
You know, it's like flushing yourself down a toilet, you know, just, you know, like, don't go there.
It's not a good place.
Don't go there.
Just like chill, you know, and just like let it just naturally, you know, organically like happen, you know, and that's that's what are your thoughts on the flower that he grew?
Oh, I didn't grow that.
Yeah, I thought you did grow that.
This is epic.
That was when you're seven years old.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's the five year old.
This is epic.
I don't want to miss.
Some afgoo.
What do you call it?
Some goo?
I know what it is.
I guess misplaced credit.
But it changes.
It changes.
I was up at the Humboldt conference and I shared a jar.
What?
The regenerative one?
Oh, yeah.
And it is top notch.
If you have any interest.
Yeah, we were there last year.
Right.
Talk about expanding your mind.
That was like really condensed.
Yeah.
That was awesome.
When you only have so much time.
Yeah.
And you need to get the job done.
Yeah, like the cup is so much.
There's so many.
You know, it's hard to really focus on just the regenerative.
You're there with your.
You know, here we're just there's so much.
You know, it's hard to.
And I've sat in the same 10 by 10.
Yeah.
Dude, he doesn't even know there's an outside.
Yeah.
He's just, yeah, he's just stuck here.
You're stoned.
Stoned in place.
That's right.
He's stoned.
You're stoned.
You can't leave.
Oh.
So, Nicholas, who's five.
Oh, right on.
They have their own pots.
Wow.
And they do whatever the hell they want in them.
And it is literally a free for all.
Dude, it's crazy.
But it is.
Really?
Do you just give them like full, like I'm going to.
No, no.
Do they actually.
Like seriously, the seven year old in veg is like, actually, I want to chop and drop.
Okay.
That's what you want to do.
Okay.
Well, that's the season.
You know, he learned a hard lesson, but he literally is crying.
He's like, oh, I killed it.
It's done for the year.
You know, but he's seven and he's learning that, you know, and it's like, oh, that's
what we grow in the garden.
You know, that those experiences.
You said this was a.
This is his little brother.
He's a raccoon.
But you said that was the sunshine.
So this was gift.
The seeds were gifted to me from a young man who's doing beautiful names named Dujon, who
is also at the Humboldt Conference.
So this is like coming full circle, closing the loops.
Yeah.
And this is on purpose.
I met up with people at the Humboldt Conference that were like, we're going to share some
genetics and see how it changes because we're going to be able to do this.
My understanding, it's it's her loopy fruit.
Yeah.
Give me a sec.
I can look at my phone.
I'll actually know.
Hold on a sec.
Yeah.
For phones.
I hate them and they're so useful.
So so he was interested in people growing it out in different microclimates to see how
it expresses itself differently.
Dujon gets the reality that there's stuff going on in the soil and then you also have
the life around just the rhizosphere, just around the roots.
You don't have to have it in everything, but it will grow.
Right.
And so you can have a pot if that's all you got and you can put that life back in that
pot and it will do special things like it's crazy.
And so my kids have that idea.
It's crazy.
And so my kids have that understanding and so we play with the pots.
We experiment.
They don't they don't they know it's a garden, but they call it the laboratory.
It's so great.
Like my 7 year old.
That's really inspiring.
It makes me want to like.
Dude, it's how we grow.
I'm training my son.
Yeah, you know that too.
But also, you know, have them plant their own seeds.
You know, they've got this thing.
Plant their own seeds.
You know, I've been honestly afraid to enter the world, but on a personal level, on your
personal, you can do that.
Right.
I mean, that's like legal.
I'll give you what I mean.
Opposed to like my license.
My kids are not allowed in my greenhouses or whatever.
Stuff like that.
But you used to like five years ago.
What a change.
Right.
No, I mean, no, not on record.
No, I'm definitely not admitting that I had.
No, you are not really ever supposed to have your kids legally in.
See, because they still don't understand that it's a flower.
What do we give people who need help?
I mean, I'm not saying it's a problem, but I wouldn't necessarily want to, you know,
go on record saying that I had my kids running around in my greenhouse.
I would never do that.
That's wrong.
That's wrong.
That's just wrong.
We're not there yet.
How's that?
We're not there yet.
Yeah, I would never do that to my children.
Right.
Outside in the sunshine.
Oh, my God.
In the sunshine, running through cannabis plants with terpenes everywhere.
Healing them.
Healing them and.
Loving on them.
Oh, my goodness.
And oh, by the way, here's a tomato.
Yeah.
Would you like some carrots?
Yeah, pick some South African ground cherries and some potatoes.
Yeah.
That's usually what I grow is this South African ground cherry.
And can we also get some kale over there?
Yeah, grow it.
So my kids are learning about patience and the plants are teaching them about that.
Yeah.
Yeah, we got the.
I only know that because the plant taught me.
Yeah, we got the.
Like that's literally how it works and I'm just I got something else to share, guys.
Listen up.
There's a whole other world out there.
Holy shit.
I love the headlamp.
You can really see stuff.
I turn off the Kindle or the television or the iPad or whatever and I hook up a microscope
to the TV and I'm showing them their plants and the soil and the life and the water.
Yeah, I need one of those microscopes.
And it's this big.
And so this microscopic creature.
Dude, it's like a giant.
It's like a giant.
It's like a giant.
It's like a giant.
It's like a giant.
And so this microscopic creature.
Dude, it's better than.
It's so crazy.
There's this thing called a micro arthropod.
Like it's on the screen, right?
And it looks like Godzilla walking through Tokyo.
Right.
Claws, friggin' pinchers and shit.
Fungus is going like, I can't move.
It's it's alive.
Right.
You've been in a garden.
It's alive.
And you can see it.
And that actually is a plant.
And it's a plant.
And it's a plant.
And it's a plant.
And it's a plant.
And it's a plant.
And it's a plant.
And it's a plant.
And it's a plant.
And it's a plant.
And it's a plant.
And it's a plant.
And it actually tells you how your plants are growing.
It's so epic.
It's so amazing.
Oh, hook me up.
If you haven't looked through a microscope at your soil, it'll blow your mind.
Sunbolt grown.
Is that Johnson?
Sunbolt grown?
Yeah, that's Sunshine.
Perfect.
Yeah, this is Sunshine's.
It's grown on the Central Coast in living soil, pushing this minty anise fennel terpene.
All right, that's what you were talking about.
Yeah.
So talk about the fennel.
Okay, well, the fennel has this terpene, this smell, this flavor, right?
And it's that smell when you...
It's over here by the tree.
Sweet, man.
It's that smell when you're at like an Indian restaurant and there's that little bowl of
mints and you're like, I'm not quite sure what those are, but I'm still a little hungry.
And you have it and it hits you with that licorice, but it's also minty.
You know what I mean?
And it's a plant that literally just grows on the roadside and it pumps out seeds and
it's happy to grow anywhere.
That mullein, what are you talking about?
No, mullein's different, but it's an amazing plant too.
Fennel.
Good to smoke.
Yeah, it's healing.
I like to smoke it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
You got it.
So, it's just putting the puzzle pieces together.
If the microbes in your soil don't have those puzzle pieces to work with, it can't change
the picture.
It's literally just adding to the diversity.
Diversity.
That's what it is.
Biome, adding to your biome, building your biome, adding to diversity.
Yeah.
And you can do that on site.
You can encourage that growth for pennies.
Yeah, without animals, just through plants.
Just through plants.
You learn to work with it in a little different way and it starts to really groove.
Then you don't need to necessarily haul manures.
Right.
And then you have to haul them.
You basically can just chop and drop, cover cropping.
Yeah.
How was I done with my tomatoes this year?
I'm like, you guys got hit with a frost.
I go like this, snip, crush, crush, crush, break up, done.
And then I put compost and mulch over the top of that and I let it just mellow over
winter.
They do so much work over the winter.
That's when your soil's really doing the work.
Oh, I know.
And then they put in that punch in the spring.
Yeah, it's true.
And so, if you're not loving on your soil all year long, especially in the winter.
When you really realize and get that, that's an important step in the process.
I go on vacation with my kids.
Their stretch is a time where I'm like, all right, I'm closed the gate.
And they're like, we'll see you when I get back.
But I've got the rest of the team already working in there, so there's confidence.
And so, if there's a weird temperature spike or a weird chill in the air, the microbes
literally keep the soil warmer.
Oh, I know that.
Your compost pile heats up to 100, it'll catch fire.
Wait, what caught fire?
The party of life literally caught this shit on fire and you can't even see them.
It's that powerful.
And you just kind of work with it.
It's pretty insane.
Yeah.
It's amazing.
It's pretty insane.
You're just getting the team running and all on the same page.
What were you saying specifically about the fennel?
Because you were talking about cutting it down and then that kind of mulch it.
Okay, so you're taking that input, you're processing it through.
So first of all, the starting point is you have a lot of fennel growing on your property.
No.
Oh, you don't?
I don't.
I have a small grove.
I have a big, beautiful community.
Right?
And it's like, even like you and I were talking a bit, it's like, my garden is too small to
feed my community.
So I work with other farmers to help them understand how they can grow strawberries
and hundreds of acres in the Santa Maria Valley in a healthier way.
And now I'm helping to feed my community.
See what I mean?
It shifts it just a little bit, but it changes the program.
Like literally he's got a program and now he's got life as part of that program.
It's beautiful.
And it just took some time and to work with people and help them understand.
And cannabis is like the conductor at the orchestra.
And it changes the music depending on how many pieces are in front of you to work with.
Right?
And it sits there.
When I take my seed, the seed, I take a handful of where that seed is going to grow and I
take it and I put intent into it and then I take it and I put it in water and get the
water soluble.
These microbes are 70% water.
Wake everybody up and I soak my seeds in it.
My seeds are literally sucking in where they grow.
You basically can take your seeds and go out in the forest and get some leaf mold soil.
No seed, but my grow is all those things put in, stacked, and so I take that.
And so there's no transition.
There's no shock.
Like everybody sends out their little poor pictures of root porn, you know, on Instagram
or whatever.
And I'm like, those poor little babies.
Because you're exposing to something that that's not how it's grown.
Right?
It changes it versus, oh, I know what to do here.
And those genetics run.
And they've got all the team with them.
But that's where that orchestra, all those players in front of them, if you're missing...
That's the timing of it all.
It is.
But you've got to spend time to know.
The timing of it.
Yeah.
That's like Kung Fu right there.
It's martial...
Yeah.
That's some Kung Fu right there because the timing is everything.
Microbes, the Kung Fu soil.
But they are, right?
Because I can be like, hey, this person overwatered, which meant they sent that environment into
an anaerobic state.
Yes, fermentation is powerful and your plants will use it, but you don't want your roots
like that.
Because those microbes that go anaerobic, they literally, they fucking fart alcohol
and burn your stuff off.
That's what they're doing.
So it's excrement is, all right, like we breathe in oxygen, exhale carbon dioxide.
They're like, okay, I'm going to take in all this good and pump out poison.
Because that's how they grow.
From overwatering.
Yeah.
Overwatering.
Dude, let me show you a picture.
I have a...
Thanks, man.
Oh, thanks.
So let's get people who don't overwater.
Let's not let that happen.
That's a simple thing, right?
Yeah.
It fucking makes me sick.
But most people don't think it's a big deal because they don't understand why it hurts
your plants.
It's ripping them out of where they're literally the, it's called the rhizosphere.
That's just coding with life.
It's coded with life.
From too much water.
And you drown it.
You've seen that plant, right?
It looks like it got drowned.
And that's what happens because they breathe, the soil breathes.
Yeah.
Well, the media, the soil in general is what's supposed to be moist and the roots are supposed
to absorb the water from the soil, right?
But the thing of it, it's soil isn't the growing media.
It's not supposed to be like so full of water.
Yeah, the soil's the habitat.
So it's like you saying, my plant grows in the Amazon.
The diversity, the life, the layers, the depth, the water, the this.
The birdsong.
The birdsong.
The storm or the dust from the plains of Africa being lifted up across the Atlantic and coming
down as minerals across.
That's how they get fertilized.
You're like, what?
It's like, that's what the plant wants to do.
That's how it grows.
Yeah.
That changes things.
And you can start small.
Because the microbes are even smaller.
So you can literally start small.
Yeah, as long as you have a system to do that in, that's why I was saying, yeah, I've got
that's what, yeah.
There's products out there too that are starting to really turn the corner to understand that,
no, no, it's not about NPK.
There's, if you want to help your plants, the first thing to change your growth, stop
using nitrogen.
Just think of that.
How would that change how you grow if you didn't use any nitrogen?
You mean like out of a bottle?
Yeah.
That's so easy to get nitrogen.
It's ridiculous.
Only if you got the rest of the team.
Out of dead grass.
I go and use weed whack and use a month old dead grass to turn into a JLF and that.
Yeah.
Which is, but we were kept from that knowledge because nutrient companies don't want you
to know how easy it is to make nutrients out of, how to make liquid nutrients out of.
No, no, you're making it plant available.
Yeah.
So you're taking what you got and turning it into what you need.
Yeah.
You can do it.
Oh yeah.
No, that's what we did.
Yeah, we did that.
We've been doing that for, I haven't been doing it anaerobically, but I've been doing
it, you know, no till style.
So talk about some stuff you do anaerobically versus aerobically.
Well, like.
Real fast.
Anaerobic is just a category.
Right.
It's what do you prefer?
That's really all it is.
But that preference changes what you promote.
And that's why like lactobacilli is so important because it can work in that middle ground
and actually it produces an enzyme that kills the bad guys.
So literally it's like if you're having a problem where it's leaning towards and you
can see it, like you can literally look at a soil sample and I can tell your plants drowning
before the plant is drowning because those creatures that like that anaerobic environment,
they start to multiply and you can see, you can see them.
And at that point you're going, okay, we're over watering.
Yeah, but that's an anaerobic environment that is created because there's not proper
drainage.
You know what I mean?
That's different than creating an anaerobic environment to cultivate specific bacteria,
you know, from the plant to feed to the plant, which is kind of the completeness of, you
know, using like a JADAM liquid fertilizer, which is, you know, made from, in my instance,
I used cannabis leaves because that's the methodology is that a plant, no, not what
you got, but what the plant needs.
It's not about me.
It's about, you know, the plant only needs, you know, what's already there.
So it's connecting its own loop.
Oh my God, hold on.
The quiet.
Some comments are coming.
Dun dun dun.
Yeah, some thoughts on the topic.
Yeah, what do you got bro?
Wouldn't like KNF be a little more like anaerobic?
Okay, so it's both, it's basically both.
It's just, there's just like, it's just like Kung Fu.
Just like different styles of Kung Fu.
It's not that one is better than the other or they don't all work together or when they
do we fight, you, you, you learn, you know?
So it's not like a competition.
It's a friendly, you know, and then you get in a flow where you are going hard, but it's
easy.
Yeah.
You know, but it, but it is an evolution.
Where in your process are you doing things anaerobically versus aerobically?
Okay, so I start out with collecting the members of the team that live in the area.
And so that's going to different habitats.
It's going to the healthiest, undisturbed, left alone.
But there's probably some pretty aerobic organisms.
No, like that's where you find what grows there on, on the smallest of levels.
Yeah, but you're not, you know, if you're, if you're not sealing them, then they're not
cultivating anaerobically, you know, cause there's air.
And so you collect them and then you can take those organisms.
And you'll know it because it'll stink like crazy.
Yep.
No, no, like there's something primal where you're like, that is not healthy.
Don't go there.
You've done that, right?
You flip a tarp or whatever.
Oh, there's that dog shit, right?
Well, I don't, I don't know.
I mean, I think that's, I think that comes back to perception is everything because in
some cultures, you know, they, they like stinky stuff.
Maybe Americans don't, you know, but Koreans, you know, K and F, they are not afraid of,
like when I mentioned, I mentioned certain, you know, Jadam style, you know, you know,
applications and people get like weirded out.
Do you like durian?
You what?
Like durian?
I don't know what that is.
It smells like shit.
Durian is a fruit from like the Philippines, Indonesia.
Yeah, I like things that smell like shit.
Actually, I do.
That's why I love dog shit.
It's horrible.
I love, I love things that smell like shit.
But it is so beautiful.
I do.
Like you put it in your mouth and it's like custardy sweet.
And it is the biggest shift of perspective because you go, everything I say is saying
that this is not healthy.
And yet there's something to it too.
Right?
And you, you experience it anew.
It's really kind of a weird experience, but it's good.
All right, so, you know, the quiet guy in the corner.
Oh, on cycling or on using cannabis, healthy or sick to make products for further cannabis
growing, right?
Yeah, definitely using it in the compost pile.
Chipping, chipping stocks.
We love chip, we chip like when we cut a field, we'll cut all the product on the field or
the greenhouses.
I mean, just everything left, we just run through the chipper.
And that's our, you know, that's like, and the one like that I really.
Because you got to like condense the material down, you know, somehow.
Yeah.
Like for things that take a while to break down.
And here's the thing is like, we're doing a lot of chipper work, sudden oak death.
That one's easy.
But like what I'm saying is that.
You should record that because that's interesting.
Sudden oak death is, I live with that.
I live in a tan oak forest.
So is there a negative effect on the cannabis plant by using oak that was downed, that died
due to sudden oak?
I understand how it could, that's dangerous.
Not if it's been thermally composted.
Because the microbes are literally processing.
Well, that's where I'm going with this.
Okay.
So I'm taking, okay, I'm taking all the, and some of it does.
And some of it didn't die of sudden oak, but I'm just going through the forest.
I'm using like a pile of chips that, you know, was run through a chipper from the electric company.
You know, they left like 20 yards of chips from my property.
So yeah, like something like that.
These are oak dominant piles?
There's fir, oak, redwood, madrona.
You don't know like the percentages or anything in the pile?
I do.
It's predominantly tan oak.
Predominantly tan oak.
I'd say 80, 75% tan oak.
Easily, and maybe more.
80% tan oak, some redwoods.
That's next.
Yeah.
And fir.
And maybe a couple of madrones.
Literally very few madrones down there.
So what, what like I've found is that if I can use stuff that's been down 5, 10, 15 years,
run it through the chipper, I need way less nitrogen in order to get the pile cooking
and let the rain hit it and it breaks down really nice, a lot more fungally dominant.
Yeah, that's like duff at that point.
You know, it's duffy.
Yeah, and it just really breaks down.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, totally.
Yeah, let the wood chips get all, you know, just inoculated.
They're just like thick.
I'll dig into it.
I'll harvest the spots that are just like thick with like a white, you know, fungal
hype where they're like, they're just like, like just decomposing at this one layer, you
know, quicker than like up here, you know, they're just, it's just eating it at that
one layer.
That's, you know.
Veins.
Yeah, those veins.
I've seen that so much in chip piles.
Yeah.
Where we got these like, what I guess is like ectoplasm.
I guess is like ecto, but these strands, like where these, where the, where it starts webbing
together, but it's in dense pockets.
Like, so, okay, so you have a pile and it's chipped out, especially if it was like real
rotten when it went in and it's already, it's super fine.
A lot of fines coming out.
We could get it wet, like one or two heavy rains and we get some water into the piles,
the spot piles low and we'll see it, that the webs run through it.
But what's weird is that they don't run consistently.
They run maybe light at first as they're building up, but then into these heavy pockets and
those like just inoculate, like I don't know what happens, but like.
Yeah, they just like go into like a ball and just like eat everything and then go from
there.
Okay, so after we read Jeff Lowenfeld's book, The Teeming with Fungi.
Oh, Jeff's book?
Yeah, Jeff's book.
Great book.
So, and towards the end of the book, it teaches you about where to find fungal hypotheria
in the wild, right?
And so we found out that, you know, like long-term, well, full-term outdoor cannabis plants are
like really beneficial to, you know, a fungal dominant, you know, association with your
bacteria mixed in there, right?
So my neighbor was basically the one who gave us the book to read, was like, you know, we
can go find these like whole pockets of dense mycorrhizae in the forest.
It's all just like right there next to where broken oak trees are like falling on the ground.
So like we literally just went off in the woods a little bit and like right where you
would see where big old branches had fallen down or trees had fallen down, you could like
push over like the top like decrepit layer of what was bark and stuff.
And there's just like whole just dense pockets of it where the, I assume where all that comes
from is the microbes and the fungus and the mycelium are eating the wood tissue inside
of the log or whatever that's falling down, right?
So that's where I've personally experienced like finding it in the wild in old growth
forest that hasn't been disturbed for at least 60 years, you know, so that was just cool
to find, you know.
Right, right, right.
But you're saying, talking about like, wait, the, specifically, you know what I mean?
You were saying specifically how, you know, with the tan oaks, I think, you know, like
if it's, I've been wondering that myself, if it's like dangerous or not to use the tan oaks.
But, so I'm just trying to out-compete whatever, whatever's there that.
Yeah, I, like I just, I don't see how there's any like, there's no concern to me in growing
cannabis.
Like maybe if I was raising, if I was raising little tan oaks, I'd all of a sudden be like,
should I be using this as my soil component?
But like, I just see it as something that's available and works way sooner.
So we, for instance, we have this big pile that we're working with that's fir dominant
and it's more like 20 years down.
Yeah.
And it was already bucked and run with dozers and stuff.
It was like, you know, waste in making a pond a long time ago.
And so we've been working this fir pile and I'm like, okay, there's stuff in there.
And I also have like in different spots, these like 50, 60, 70 year old firs that they, that
they dropped and they couldn't get out at the time or whatever happened.
And I have access to them and I'm more okay with thinking about using that stuff.
But like fresh fir just doesn't work in our situation.
I don't think, I think it's too acidic.
It's got like a lot of, I don't know, I think there's a lot of antimicrobials in it.
Just by the nature of all the terpenes.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I don't, I don't have much fir in that.
Yeah.
It's predominantly tan oak, which, and I've been wondering that is this dangerous?
Am I going to, you know, get some virus?
If it has sudden oak?
Yeah.
I don't, I decided that probably not.
And I've just been going with it.
I don't think so.
Yeah.
Like I, it shouldn't cross over.
I asked the lab, I asked one of the labs and he thought it was fine too.
Also heavy metals.
I was concerned about heavy metals.
It's a very unique process.
Wouldn't have anything else at some point.
It depends on how it's spread.
If it's a smore or some cross-contaminant.
They said that it's waterborne, but I watched how it spread on my property.
Well, the water is the carrier, the marine.
For my property, it was chainsaws, PG&E.
Like we watched it come in on the power lines and spread through our forest for sure.
And they told us afterwards when I asked them, yeah, they for sure said it.
Yeah.
That will happen.
I've seen that happen too with PG&E come in and they're just carrying it on their trucks.
Their chainsaws have it.
They have it.
They've been working in it all day.
It's in their pant cuffs.
It's on them.
It's, you know what I mean?
It's either coming in on them.
It's either in the air.
It's kind of everywhere.
It's kind of hard, hard to hide from it at this point, you know?
Right.
I have, I see mountains just dying.
You know, up where I'm at.
My neighbor's hill is just like browning out.
But by me, it's not so bad.
Honestly, I must say where I'm at, it doesn't seem so bad.
We're kind of like, maybe because we're actually working with the forest and letting it breathe.
You know, maybe because we're letting it breathe, just the simple, because I'm cutting so many
trees down or that fall, you know.
All right, you know, it's like, you know, you gotta, I live in a, like, wherever you're
standing and there's no tree, there were 10 tan oak trees.
He can verify this.
Like, you know, that's how thick it is.
And I have northeast and west facing.
So it's challenging.
I fight for space.
I fight trees.
Oh yeah, whatever you want.
For light and flat space, I have to, like, you know, fight for it with, like, a chainsaw
and an excavator, you know, to keep my spaces, my light and my flat.
Or not even flat, but just whatever.
And if it's oak dominant, then I would say you use that to your advantage.
Yeah, that's what I've been doing.
I've been predominantly using, like, tan oak chips, high fungal tan oak chips as my base.
And then I'm using, I have this 100 year old wisteria patch that's mulching this 100 year
old wisteria leaves for 100 years.
And then I'll be gathering up tan oak leaves.
I'll gather up rotten, anything I can find that's high fungal, rotten.
Even, like, different color.
I'll go for, like, different, like a yellow fungus.
Yeah, yeah.
On the redwoods, on the redwood duff.
I've been growing old yellow, I call it.
Trying to grow old yellow and get it to pop.
I've been trying to get morels to pop in my beds.
I inoculated them with some morels.
How are you doing?
I don't know, they'll take a minute to pop up.
It's still early to tell.
But I was really just, yeah, I thought that would be ideal.
That would be cool.
Giant morels popping up under your cannabis plants.
I have shiitake mushrooms that pop up in the garden.
They're so loud.
So loud!
What is that?
So this right here is the flower that we were talking about.
This is Nick's loopy fruit.
Oh, right on.
Thank you for sharing it with me.
Oh, nice.
Because it's, like, right now, it really, for me, is like taking you guys and hanging out in the garden.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah, right on.
And so I appreciate sharing some flower, hearing some stories, understanding a different rhythm.
Yeah.
And then working, you know?
And it's being beautiful.
Yeah, yeah, totally.
Good.
Yeah, right on.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, give thanks.
I like to dry-toke first so it kind of sets your palate.
Really kind of get that flavor before you hit it with the heat.
So would you like to pass it around if you guys would like to?
But, like, they're...
Oh, it's sweet.
Yeah.
Super sweet.
Right?
I can't wait to talk to Sue.
To what?
Oh, yeah.
You know, to see, because she...
I hear you want to check this out.
She's loved on that plant, too.
You know?
Yeah, I'm going to check it out.
I'm going to check it out.
I'm going to check it out.
I'm going to check it out.
I'm going to check it out.
I'm going to check it out.
I'm going to check it out.
I'm going to check it out.
I'm going to check it out.
I'm going to check it out.
I'm going to check it out.
I'm going to check it out.
I'm going to check it out.
