Hello, hello, hello, hello, everybody. Apparently I'm still waking up this morning. I'm having
my first hoax, having my first warm-ups of the day. Today is going to be a little bit
different of an episode. We are going to get started and talk about the year ahead. And
as usual, I'm London, your host. And we'll be having some really exciting stuff happening
throughout the year this year. So I wanted to kind of give you all a heads up on the
show's content, what's going to be happening. I'm really like we haven't done, we did a
cannabis for breakfast episode yesterday that I advise everybody go check out to go see
and talk to Dr. James White. And the amazing conversation that was had there. I mean, it
was quite brilliant. They were talking about some really interesting things, including
like how the bacteria and the rice of phage cycle is so incorporated into the entire plant,
not just the little parts. So hopefully you made it. Thank you, Jonathan. I mean, thank
you all for coming in. It's been a little while off. It was a fun year last year. We
have a lot of fun stuff coming ahead this year, but also a little bit of hecticness
because we will be doing the big long trip this year. We are traveling a little bit all
over the place. We're going to be going over to Hello Ecological Projects, Italy this year,
March 2nd. So that's kind of the biggest part of the trip. And we're going to be incorporating
into this series kind of an informational part. We're going to be jumping in and we're
actually going to be slowly flipping traditionally farm agricultural land in Italy. And we're
going to be taking this one acre of land and over the next few years, turning it into a
food forest and building out in that capacity. And so I'm really excited to get into it today.
I thought we would hop on, talk about some of the awesome content we have going because
we have some amazing regenerative farmers and some amazing farms that we're going to
be going to see. So I thought we'd kind of go through the year, describe a little bit
about what we have going on. And then we'll go into the farm in Italy. Actually, let's
start with the farm in Italy. Shall we do that? What I'll do is I'll kind of show you
the location, whereabouts that we're located in. And if you bear with me a little bit,
we'll have that come up. But there's a lot of fun stuff. We have an episode while I'm
bringing this up right now. We have an episode coming up this week. A feature on cannabis
for breakfast happening very soon. That will be very exciting. So make sure to check that
out. I've got Google Earth open here. So we're going to go in. So we are right now, so everybody
knows, this is where we live here in BC, Canada. We've been here in BC, Canada for
quite a while. Let me drop a marker there. So right there, right here in BC, Canada has
been our home for the last five years with our small little family, two girls now and
a wife. We've been living here for about five years as we put money together and prepped
and did things to work our way slowly to be able to move to Italy. Because our goal is,
as someone who was born originally in Canada but has an Italian background, we are able
to get Italian citizenship and thus we have purchased land, our land, that you'll see
there. I'll dig into that. Hopefully everybody is doing well. Why don't you tell me what
you're smoking on this morning in the chat. Let me know what's going on there. So if we
go in, so we're right outside Locotandro. So this is southern Italy. So when we fly
in March 2nd, I think we hit Frankfurt, which is here somewhere. And then we fly into Florence
and we'll be staying in Tuscany for a little bit before going to Spanabas. But we are going
to go into the farmland now. And we'll highlight that a little bit and then we'll talk about
the area. So if I zoom right in, I think I can train the asset. So if we zoom right in,
so this is our square space of land right here. So if I go and do a cutting space, so
our farm is here. So this is our little house. You can see, let me see here. This little
area is our house. And then we back up a little bit here. You can see this entire quadrant
here is essentially our land. We have about tilt range, latitude, altitude, just over
one square kilometre. No, sorry, just over one acre. So I think if we cut it off kind
of like here, along this line here, we have one full acre of land, which is awesome. And
then yeah, so this entire back acre is going to be food forested. We're going to put in
blood oranges. We're going to put in blood oranges along this area. Let's see if we can
get right into the... So these are our homes that we have here. So this is our front area,
little shed area here. And right here is actually our main... Hopefully you're doing well. I'm
having to, I'm a little off. Yeah, I see a little orange grove. I see, yeah, I've had
this fascination with blood oranges for years. So I've really quite enjoyed them. So if I
change it a little bit, these three little houses right here, I don't know if you guys
can see these four points, two of these, that's actually our home that's connected to the
side home there. And then our acreage goes over, or one acre of land goes over to the
right there. And these are old historic houses, apparently built by the Turks. They were
designed to be temporary, temporary-ish structures. Essentially, they were told like, you
can't, you had to pay this massive tax if you were going to build a permanent structure in
this area way, way, way back in the day. So they allowed these, this group of people to
build these structures, which are just stone that are hand laid out and all just fit very,
very nicely together into these homes. So you can just literally take them apart. They're
just stacked stones. But they've been set in grout and everything like that now. And
they've been more set, but it was a way to avoid taxes. So these very, very cool house. So
we got a four-spire one. And then our land goes out to the back there, which is very, very
exciting. You can kind of see. So from here, I believe Locotandro is around the way, which is the
local city. I don't know if you can see it from here. On the top of one of these hills
around here. I haven't been out there. So you see cactus and all sorts of different things
growing. You can see like there, he needs a little bit of work and love. And it's been
traditionally farmed for quite a while. So it will be a little bit of challenge to take a
little bit of time to fix up and do some nice stuff. But before we go into what's going
to be happening there, we should talk a little bit about what's happening over the year ahead
and what we can expect to see on the show for Cannabis for Breakfast. And this will
probably be a little bit quicker of an episode because we've torn down the entire tent. We're
selling the car, the Trulies. Yes, the houses are called Trulie. I always say it weird.
So we're selling the house. Well, not the house, but we're selling the car, all of the
grow equipment because we'll be able to grow outdoor and have a whole farm out there. All of
our lights, everything. Pretty much we're just going to move over with a suitcase, a few
suitcases for each of us. And for the first year, we'll only be able to be there for three months
at a time. So three months in, three months out. So as we go, we'll be leaving March 2nd. So we're
going to sell and move everything forward. And looking at March and February ahead, we do have
a few less shows. Let me just bring up our show plan so that I know exactly what we're going
through. So y'all can know what to expect because we have some phenomenal content and definitely
be back later tonight at five o'clock to see the Dank Hour because there's a lot of fun stuff. So
today we have the show ahead and next week we may have a surprise show that jumps on. There's a
Valentine's Day show in the morning, but we're not too sure yet. I might just make a nice breakfast
for my family next Tuesday. We will see. So we might have a small intermittent break coming up.
Following that, we have 21st. We have Sumo Cannabis in the A.S. St. Croix Aeroponics
facility in Quebec. Very excited to have them on the show. Following that, February 28th,
we have Clonetics coming back for another episode. They did a quite a fun episode last year
where they actually went through a ton of major stuff. Let's see if I can bring that up.
Let's go. Yes, Cannabis. And actually I can. So what we'll do,
let me see if I can find a good highlight spot here. Here we go. Beautiful.
Then I can do this. Stop screen. Present. Thank you for your patience. Thank you. I got a lot
of work on the way. So if anybody wants to come for a visit and help out, I'm never going to have
a problem with that. And here we'll just do a little play through here. I don't know if you
can see the sound or the audio, but we were checking out kind of, this was a facility.
Is it even showing up right now? Let's see. No, it's not. So we need to turn that on.
And then, so you can see their facility here.
And this was a room that they were building out into their hunting room, their pheno hunting
space. So we're going to check out this. This should be full of flower, or I believe, or at
least full of baby propagated plants. And we should be looking at, they have a massive pheno
hunt happening. So we're going to check them out on the 28th. Let's see if we can find a little bit
more of their funner stuff. Because they will have farms join us that are running, because
they're a nursery. So they'll have a farm join us that is running their flower product. You remember
Natash, I believe they were from, I don't actually remember the farm that they were.
You can see they have a beautiful space. They're using old school
HPS and metal halide lighting. So we'll see what's going on with them. Get an update this
year and see what's happening with their projects. They were trying to do a podcast last
year that didn't quite get out there. But we'll be excited to kind of see where they're at.
Where they're at with those things. They're working with a lot of like Breeder Steve and some of the
older cats that have been working the game for a bit. So it'll be exciting to see them move forward
and develop. Following that, we have a really fun experience. We're actually going to be checking
out Weathered Islands Cannabis again. If I open that. I just got to keep YouTube open.
Just let me see here. YouTube. So we're going to go see Weathered Islands Cannabis. Weathered
Islands Cannabis is Tixeta Time Warp, Apricot Kush. He's been holding these cuts for a while.
He's been working with them for even longer. The Collier Quinton is the breeder behind
their seed projects. They're available in the Ontario market and the BC market for seed and for
pre-roll package. Let's see. For breakfast. I think I'd have these things up and ready to go a little
bit further ahead of time. Open a new tab. So we're going to be checking out these amazing cats right
here. And if you remember, Collier Quinton is on an island in the Vancouver Island space. He has a
large outdoor farm. He built the fence himself. He's got a ton of Cannabis. I mean, look at this
beautiful space. He's doing a pheno hunting and a lot of awesome, awesome, awesome work. Oh, I'm
doing it again. I'm not showing you like I got the best video ever and we're not showing it to
you properly. So here we are. We have his beautiful farm that we were going through and we got to
check out. There's a lot of amazing plants that they were digging through. He's a passionate
grower. So we're going to do a three-part series with them this year featuring multiple different
segments of their grow and their methodology from essentially spring. How they do their outdoor grow,
how they do their setup, their outdoor grow, their outdoor plan, how they should be doing
field pheno hunts now or greenhouse to be a company like Humboldt seed company referenced above.
Blueberry muffins is a staple now. They have huge fields. Yeah, you do need to have huge fields to
be doing these things. And the larger fields you have in larger space, the faster you can work
in the higher level of technology you have access to, the faster you can do it. It's really hard
for some of these smaller companies to keep on top of things when you have big brands and
big with big money behind it like Segra. They're able to rent out and into huge field and then do
massive hunts and all these crazy things. So it can make things a little bit more challenging
for a lot of people. But regardless, Kalle Erikkvitan is doing something awesome. He doesn't
even use any sort of typical lighting, no substitution, no tech really other than just
outdoor planting and taking these plants and planting them in their pots and bringing them
in and outside each day to ensure that they're ready to go. Are you going to build a garden? Do
you have a caretaker, a neighborhood farm to look after any of the plants in Italy?
Yes. I am working on that. The plan is because we have had an agricultural... I'll just take
questions randomly here, guys. If you have any at all, don't be afraid to throw them out there.
So a couple of things. Starlink is a great comment here. I'll start with peaceful,
peace of mind farming. Technology. Are you going to be able to have a garden this year? Do you
have a caretaker, neighborhood farm, to look after any of the plants in Italy? I'm hoping that
once I get on the ground there for three months, that I can find someone that I can charm and
make friends with and maybe be interested in helping maintain the farm while we are away.
It is an acre. It's a lot bigger of a space than I'm used to working with. However, it has been
traditionally farmed for a long period of time. My hope and plan with that is that when we get
on the ground, we're going to find somebody that we make friends with and that we can
charm up and try and make a deal with in some sort of way. The general plan is to also plant
a lot of things. We're going to get there March 20th is when we actually get into the farm.
We're not going to be there until a little bit later in the season, but it's just
late enough in the planting season to bring in olive, grape, and orange. With about two months,
I'll be able to really give them enough time to settle in and get more or less comfortable in
the space. Then, I'll put just a mix of crop down. Whatever looks like it'll be ready in September,
October. As much volume as possible. We're going to put down lots of alfalfa, lots of
nitrogen fixers, and lots of different stuff. If you can see on the Google Earth, it's pretty
barren looking land. When it comes down to it, it doesn't look exactly great. It hasn't been
epically taken care of over the last little bit. It's been pretty much salted.
Let's see here. There you go. You can see it's a very dry area as well. My concern is that the
water content is going to be very easy to distribute. That's the challenges that we're
facing. You can see it's been salted and kept dry and traditionally farmed for a very long time.
We will have to get some of that back. My thought is to just put down as much of a mixture of
everything as I can apart from your base trees that need to build up. Let the soil build itself.
It still needs to build out. It still needs to come up. We get the longer standing crops. If
some of the alfalfa and stuff doesn't make it through while we're away, it's just going to feed
the soil and build into it. We're going to try and get as much seed down as possible to create a
blanket cover and get as much of that green for as long a period as possible to bring that back.
Italy is actually quite solid on their internet and connectivity when it comes to that type of
thing. You can get a lot of very high quality internet pretty much wherever you are in Italy.
It's not a huge country and they've put a lot of infrastructure into their internet connection.
Logically, I shouldn't have a challenge. We do have a challenge sometimes when we're streaming
between there and here if the other person isn't grounded into a hardwire connection.
Being over there having a hardwire connection, I don't predict any challenges or issues happening.
Now, we are only able to stay at this property for three months in Italy. After that three-month
period is over, we're going to have to move and come back to Canada for a little bit while we
finish our citizenship paperwork. This is fine because it's going to allow us to do the trail
to the Unicorn Cup, which we're going to get into in a second. My bandwidth should be fine in Italy.
I should be able to have some connectivity. One of the things I'm really looking forward to
is the fact that because my focal daytime period where I'll be doing a lot of my farming will
actually be early in the morning out there until noon-ish, we're going to have a little bit more
time and availability where it's not going to be active work time here. I'll be able to spend the
days on the farm and then in the evenings I'm working on expanding our media stuff and pushing
those things out. We'll be in Italy at the farm for three months. After the three-month
period is over, we're going to come back and land in Ontario. We're going to stay with my wife's
family for about a month. From there, we're going to shoot some local shots. We're going to get a
highlight episode shot for the trail Unicorn Cup because this year, as everybody knows, we are
working with Unicorn Cup to be their media package sponsor. Not a media package sponsor, but a media
collaborator. To push out an awesome piece of content, we're going to do a whole Unicorn's
Trail to Unicorn Cup, which is actually now the Rosebud Bowl this year. As you can see,
I got the cool Unicorn Cup hat that will be gone for a bit. What we're going to do when we land
Canada in June is we're going to buy a van or a vehicle of some sort. It doesn't need to be
anything complex or big. We're going to travel around. First, we're going to be staying in
southern Ontario with some family. We'll dip out to Maine or some other places to visit a lot of
the other people that we've had on the show that are in the southern Ontario market. If you are in
the chat, if you are in southern Ontario, we're going to go to Highland Cannabis and check out
some of these spaces and really highlight the southern Ontario market. Following that,
we're going to be at the end of June. We're going to go into July. In July, we're going to do
early July, we're going to go to New York. Late June, early July, we're going to be in New York.
We're going to visit Anna Schwabe and Johnny Danktech, who's on Rubber Duckie, on with Brian
and Marco tomorrow on their Brian and Marco show. Definitely be here to check out that awesome piece
of content. Tomorrow afternoon, we'll be here for Johnny, but we're going to be visiting him in New
York in June and July. From there, we will go to Anna's place, Dr. Anna Schwabe. We're going to
visit her. Again, the family's coming with me, so we're going to visit farms. If you've got a farm
in New York, or you're doing something in New York, and you want us to come by and check out or
say hi, let me know in the comments. Shoot me a message. My information's all there. Let me know,
because I want to visit you. We're doing this as a community tour and to highlight small businesses
throughout the space. Anything I can do to support the community, let me know. I want to be there.
If there's a farm that you know, that you love and want to support that isn't getting the support
that they need, shoot me a message. Let's go out and reach out to them and see if I can visit.
We're going to be in New York in late June, early July. Following that, we're going to be visiting
Colorado. If you all remember the fun Area 420, we're going to be live on location for this year's
visit in Area 420, which is Colorado, the city of Moffitt. Now, the coolest thing, this is one of
the coolest cities there is. Not one of the coolest cities, but it's one of the most interesting
cannabis stories that I've found. I've skipped over the last part, but we're going to get into
this town and talk a little bit about this. We covered them last year. This town of Moffitt in
Colorado was essentially desk two. It was starting to fail. They didn't have any major
industry or economy. Nothing. There were quite a few challenges. There was no running water.
They don't have hotels. Some really basic amenities they just didn't have. We're having
challenges getting in and developing. A few years ago, some farmers came into town and decided to
help support them by building out and teaching people how to grow cannabis and putting in farms
and creating this area. Now, this town of Moffitt is growing and developing at a rate unheard of
before in the town's history. To the point that they're actually debating on changing the town
name to Moffitt. A month after we covered them here on Cannabis for Breakfast, it was picked up
by the New York Times. It's now been mentioned in a whole bunch of different spaces.
We got them first. There's other people to cover them before us, but they're doing something
special over there. We're going to go there, stay there for a week, try and support all the farmers
that we can that are out there. We're going to shoot another episode about this town that has
had a major change due to the success of cannabis. That's going to be another episode on the trail
to Unicorn Cup. We'll also have our Cannabis for Breakfast episodes on location there.
Before that, which I kind of glossed over, which is pretty cool. Those that know me,
they used to have the oldest bar in Colorado. One of the other cool things before we do that,
we're going to be in New York State. In New York State, we're going to be visiting Dr. Anna Schwabe,
those that always know, she's a misgeneticist. One of the few population cannabis geneticists in the
world. A fantastic friend and a great person of mine. She's been a regular panel expert on the
Dankhauer since its conception. That's been a great addition to our team there. We're actually
going to be in the area. We're going to go down to Rutgers University. Those that know or don't
know, the Dankhauer last year had Dr. James White. Dr. James White, who we had on yesterday's episode,
is doing some amazing stuff in the study of the Rhizophagy cycle. Essentially, the cycle of
bacteria and plants. The plant taking bacteria into the body of the plant and cellular tissue
and feeding through that methodology. It's one of the coolest things. I cannot begin to explain
how cool the science and studies and stuff that's coming out of Rutgers University and Dr. James
White is. It's just amazing. Go check that episode out because I don't give it justice.
While we're in New York, because Dr. Anna Schwabe happens to work with farms and cannabis,
and Rutgers University is a federally funded university, you cannot have cannabis at a
federally funded university. Therefore, they needed a place to do a study. Right now,
they're trying to do a study on the bacterial biomanipulation and having spraying cannabis
plants and being able to affect the terpene and cannabinoid concentration that comes out.
We even had an interesting discussion a little while ago. I was talking with another friend about
tissue culture. One thing that I noticed is that some terpene and some cannabinoids can actually be
at a decrease after tissue culture. My theory is that you've washed the plant with bacteria
biome. You've taken that away from the plant. In the tissue culture process, you've eliminated all
the bad things, but you've also eliminated a lot of good stuff. You have to re-inoculate these plants
in some way, shape, or form. Of course, all of this is very new science. We're starting to find
out new things. But papers like this will help direct these types of things. One of the coolest
parts is because of the amazing work that Anna is doing and Rutgers and them coming together on the
hour, it gave us the opportunity to be able to say, hey, let's get together and do a study.
Now they're doing a white paper study with Rutgers University. We're going to get an
acknowledgement in the Dank Hour for putting that together, which is cool.
Hey, Jason Gideon, I miss you. It's been too long. Hate your soul. You want to come up and
have a chat and you're on vacation. You say hello and we can talk a little bit about K&F and how I
can get started over in Italy. If you'd like to come up for a visit, shoot me a message on Insta
and I'll shoot you a link. I don't know what you're up to. Maybe you're probably busy and
hustling away. But anyway, a little segue there. Where was I at? We were talking about the Dank
Hour. We were in Rutgers University. We're going to be checking out and having that discussion with
the team and discussing that area as well and visiting that university and having that
conversation with that group and chatting there. We're going to shoot an episode there. We'll
probably do a live on location as well. We'll do a blend of a whole bunch of fun things while we're
in New York. Then we're going to go to Colorado, check out this town of Moffitt. I'm trying to
change his name to Kush, which we hope that they do. Following that, we're going to the Emerald
Triangle. We're going to come down and drive over at the end of July. No, more like mid-July. We
should be there by the 15th. We're going to be in California. We're going to try and hit the
southern-ish tip of California and then cruise up to the Emerald Triangle and visit everybody on
the way. Peter, I'm coming for you, Jason. I'm coming to your area of town. I'm going to be in
your area. I'm coming for you. We're doing an episode live on location at that space that you
talk about. We're going to go to the Emerald Triangle and see a lot of the farmers and breeders.
We're going to see the other people that we have seen on the show before live on location. Of course,
we're going to visit their farm. We have an awesome farm to go check out, including Sunabyss's farm.
We're going to go to all sorts of interesting different spaces and really try and support and
check out the community there. In the Emerald Triangle, we're going to cruise up and probably
stop by Ebb and Flow Farms in Oregon and then come right back up. Then we're going to be in the
Emeralds into Kootenays in Canada. That will be the start of the Unicorn Cup, which we will be
live on location for for three days. We'll be helping with the education and shooting that.
You'll be able to join me live on location at the Unicorn Cup this year. Make sure you don't
miss out on any of that. You can catch up with me live in person. We can smoke a dewweed.
I'll just have come over the border, so I'll need some ganja.
Following that, after the Unicorn Cup, we're going to be heading back to Italy.
Hopefully, the land has survived and not been totally destroyed. We've got a little bit of
shooting to do in between then. We're going to be in Vancouver and BC visiting all the farms and
all the places as usual. Then we'll be back for three months in the farm trying to prepare it for
winter. It does get a little bit chilly, not too crazy. Then we'd have no idea where we're going
to be next year for Christmas. That's the general year that we have ahead for myself and cannabis
for breakfast. Some of the other farms that I'd like to talk about that we're going to be
highlighting on this year's show as well. We talked about Weathered Island Cannabis. They're
going to do a three-part episode with us this year. They were amazing guests last year and a lot of fun
to come in for a visit. We're going to do their seed methodology, their weathering methodology.
Then we're going to go in and check them out just before the flip happens. Then we're going to go
check them out right afterwards during their harvest period. Then their post-harvest,
kind of like, hey, let's check out the flower and see what happened and do our
run-through check. It'll be a lot of fun. Following that one, we have
Post-Spanish show. Our first Welcome to the Farm episode will be March 21st. We'll give a tour of
our farm in Italy. Following that, we will have Dabble. Dabble will be showing us their vegetable
plants, their general area of development, their general growth and plan, and what they're trying
to do. Dabble is a really cool outdoor farm on the island here in BC run by a younger farmer.
They also have a family job. They're making a really big effort to do some beautiful things.
They have one of the higher quality rosins on the network. We love Rosebud Farms stuff too.
We will be visiting them and supporting them. We'll be checking out Dabble as well.
We'll be visiting Sweetgrass at some point this year. Dabble will be doing a two to three-part
series checking out their farm beginning, middle and end harvest.
Then we have our last but not least. Our seasonal farms will probably be Earthwolf
Farms here in Lillooet, BC. It's a beautiful farm run by Barishna.
They're a fantastic farmer. They really care. I heard we're awesome. Yes, Rosebud Farms are
killing it. If you are in Canada and you don't have their product right now, go order it.
It's killer. Guerrero, I'm going to take you up on that for a little visit and come
have the chat with you guys over there for a little bit while I bust a joke.
As you guys know, we do an hour and a half episode every Tuesday. Usually, I have an awesome guest
with me, which is great. Today, I don't. Today, I have solo talked for so far, 35 minutes. Hopefully,
you've enjoyed it. What we're going to do is to give me a moment of break and you a moment of
break. We're going to come back and we're going to talk a little bit more about what's ahead,
what's to come. We're going to take a little bit of a break now and just do a couple little
promotions and see what else is going on in the community too. There's lots of fun little things
on the go. We will be right back in a few moments.
This show is on channel two, by the way. Channel two for Dank Hour.
We have some awesome guests coming up, including Reggie Gaudino.
Miabi Shields. We have a ton of PhDs coming to this.
Those that don't know, that music for our intro for this show is actually a band in the Kootenays
that does a fantastic job. I'm going to make sure that we get their information linked in
the thing below. That is local produced music around the Kootenays, which is just cool.
I really should be rocking the Kootenay cannabis sweater that I usually have on.
Sorry about that. My sincerest apologies. Hopefully, you enjoyed the intermittent break.
When we came back, we were sitting in the fall season and what's going to be happening there.
Hopefully, we put enough squash and some stuff in for us to be able to enjoy that
over time. What I would like to do is open up this and say, hey, do you all have any questions for me?
What are some farms that you would like to see in the area? What are some of the
big name farms that you want to see? We're going to be in Spanabus.
Those that are listening as well that are in Europe, if you're in Italy or in Europe and
would like us to come by for a visit. If you are in the Netherlands and like us to come up for a
visit, if you are in Spain, Portugal, all sorts of different and very cool and beautiful spaces,
let us know. We would love to come to your farm support and see what you have going on and
highlight it in our community. Apart from that, we'd like to just see what's going on in your
community. We're going to go to Spanabus this year. We've already chatted with a few people,
so we'll probably run into Justin from Green Planet there. We'll run into the BeVita team
there. Hopefully, we're planning on smoking some doobies with Jorge Cervantes. He's been on the
show a couple of times, so hopefully we'll be able to enjoy some time in person with him.
We're going to go to... We're hopefully going to see Mark from Brothers Grimseeds. We're going to
see a whole bunch of cool cats from here in BC, Canada, which will be really fun. I'm going to
see you at Spanabus for sure. For those that don't know, I'm going to be there with Sativa
Creations. He's been on our content before on Cannabis for Breakfast. He's been on a couple
episodes. We're going to go visit his farm live on location a couple times throughout the year.
Actually, we'll see him in mid-harvest and see him in the beginning of the year.
We're going to go visit him and then we're going to be at Spanabus together.
We're going to go and bug out at Spanabus and check out what's going on over there.
Spanabus has a lot of fun stuff. I've never actually been before, so it'll be a whole new
experience for me. It should be a lot of fun. We're going to hit that. We're going to see
the Greenhouse Seed Company. Hopefully, go visit Jal and those guys and see what's going on
in their world. I'll bring you guys the best content I can. I hope you know I work really
hard day in and day out to talk with farms, bring on farmers, support and bring in great content,
but also give you guys as much value as tools as possible to bring forward the new things.
Anything I can do to help out and support the community, let me know because that's what our
goals are. That's what we're trying to do. We've been running this show for season two. We've had
the Dank Hour for three years. We've collected next to nil on dollars. We are starting to now
allow some sponsorships. Those that continue to support us, thank you for being patient with that.
We need to be able to collect some money to be able to continue to produce content on the volume
that we're doing. That's how we've been doing it. Thank you, Viva Vita and Wildfire Pro Glass,
who are our current supporters and sponsors. Hopefully, we'll find a few more that will come
through and be able to support and help us, but that's not what we're about. They have a small
portion of things. They are here to support you and this community and creating content and
valuable content to help move youth forward. They help you move youth forward in your space, whether
it's tools for creating a better farm, tools for creating a more cost-effective farm, tools for
just being a happy person. Let's get out there and enjoy the plant in the dirt in the world
and talk to some cool things and do some cool stuff. That'll be a lot of fun. The Unicorn Cup
is going to be a wild experience as well. I may be at the Grow Up this year. We'll find out. I'm not
too sure if I'll be able to afford the trips out there. Those that are in the BC or Canada area
that go to those type of events, I will be in on Southern Ontario in June. We will visit some of
the larger events, hopefully, while we are in that area, as long as we have vehicle and everything
like that to go. Other than that, I'm not too sure what else to talk about. We've answered a good
portion of your questions. We've dug through a few different things. I'm looking forward to the
new year. I hope you are too. Next week, we'll probably be off. Following that, we're going to
be banking on and going into a beautiful, fun, amazing year. Oh, one question was, how am I going
to do this while I'm traveling? We're going to try and do the Starlink thing and tie that to a
van and see how that goes for us. That should allow us the convenience of being able to do everything
necessary in all these crazy locations and all these crazy spaces and give you the content live
on location, raw, and pretty much as au naturel as it gets when it comes down to it. We're hoping
to get a lot more fun stuff out this year. Not easy to just wing it for 90 minutes. No,
it's not easy to just wing it for 90 minutes, Jason. It's not a lot of fun. That's why I
always usually have a guest on. Come on up. I'm not going to be going in the full 90 minutes.
We're at the full 45 now. If you do have any questions, comments, queries, challenges,
you think I'm just a big old idiot, go ahead and let me know in the comments because we all got to
get better. That's the goal and plan here. We should have some fantastic content coming forward
this year. I hope you enjoy it. Let me know what I can do to do more. Please, please, if you can,
share, like, subscribe, do all the bits and bobs that help move it forward because every one of
those likes, every time somebody takes that share button and shares it on their LinkedIn,
on their Facebook, in their group or community or thing, it really helps. If you go out there and
pick out your favorite episode that's maybe really brought you value, brought you something
that really helped you, or if you ever hear something in our content that brings you value,
or helps answer a challenge that you've had, let me know and share that out there so that other
people can get those things answered. No, not everybody can pull a Jason Gideon and go 90
minutes plus solo without any problem. I have a little notepad of things that I go through. I
don't know if you do that, but you're pretty highly skilled at those type of things. I don't
really provide much of the education or any of the education when it comes down to it. I try and
simplify some of it sometimes, but really I bring on the people that you want to see, I hope you
want to see, and the content and information that I think you need to get. We give it to you,
and they teach it to you. So let me know what that might be. Maybe I'm not providing it at a high
enough volume. Maybe it's something else. So let me know what that can be in the comments. Make it
happen. Other than that, happy growing. Next time we get together, we'll have a farm guest.
Next time we get together, I won't be sitting in my kitchen, hopefully. Oh, we will be. The
Dank Hour is in a whole new format. Hard to shut you up. Yes, Jason. I cannot wait to sit down and
smoke some of your ganja with you. It is going to be so fun. But what I was trying to say,
my wife is like, you better be good. Fuck, I've totally lost it. I've totally, totally lost it.
Oh, yes, tonight, the Dank Hour, happening 5 p.m., season kickoff. Be there. We're going to
talk to our regular doctors. We're going to talk to our award-winning industry leaders. We're going
to do a lot of fun stuff. I'm working on a cannabis for breakfast. Sorry, a Dank Hour
dash hash church crossover. So if you are on the hash church and bugging them, I want that to happen.
Just be like, take our hash church crossover. Bug them. Make it happen. Bug people. Have some fun
things. As a newbie to the channel, where are you at, London? London, you can find all of my stuff
is in the description. It'll all be there in the area below. All of the channels.
We do have our PG channel that we've just launched. I've got 18 whole subscribers.
Cunning Folk Abroad, where we're doing our PG channel, where it's all good for all family
members. No cannabis involved. All agricultural, all farming, all community. We're going to get
into food. We're going to get into traveling. We're going to get into lots of fun stuff on
that channel that beats the Instagram. The Dank Hour is on channel two in the evenings. Yes,
TDH, the Dank Hour. Thanks again and happy growing, all of you. I hope you enjoy our new credit music
and happy growing, each and every one of you.
Bye.
