I'd love to just start by going down the line.
Actually, you guys changed order in my view,
but starting with Chia,
kind of who in your mind is your target demographic
and what's the main product you sell to them
and what are the trends you're seeing
in terms of growth, decline and whatnot?
Sure, good morning.
Well, I am a cannabis farmer up here in Northern California,
Mendocino County,
and primarily my farm just produces top shelf flower
for my own brand and for other brands.
And so that's my priority.
So flower consumers would be my number one target audience
at this moment.
Obviously I do sell my biomass and my shake
to companies and manufacturers
who turn that into various things.
But my primary concern is having my flower sold.
What percentage of your harvest goes to,
or I guess you said your shake,
but so all the flower you keep for your own brand sales,
and then how much shake is going out for white label?
I just did a calculation for last year's harvest.
We had about 30% of our income was from shake
from last year.
So it's a significant portion.
It's kind of interesting to see in the end of 2019
and this so far in 2020,
the shake buyers have gone way down.
I'm not getting thousands of inquiries every day
from shake buyers like I was in 2018, beginning of 2019.
I basically paid my bills by selling shake.
Like really I could have just turned my flower into shake
and sold it faster than I could have sold flower back then.
So, the times have turned.
Now I'm getting calls, multiple voicemails every day
from some random guy who works
from some random company looking for flower.
So, you know.
Looking for flower to white label
or flower with Arcana Flowers brand on it?
Yeah, well, so just to be clear,
I operate Mendocino Generations,
which is a group of 50 farms.
A lot of those farms have their own brands.
Most of those farms sell their flower to other brands.
And me personally, I sell my flower,
probably 75% of my flower goes to other companies
who put it in their own branding.
And then the other portion of my flower goes into my brand,
which is called Arcana Flowers.
So, yeah, they're putting it into probably
some portion of pre-rolls, top shelf pre-rolls
that are made exclusively from flower,
as well as putting it in their branded jars and such.
Got it.
Chelsea, who's your target audience?
Who's your archetype?
My demographic is definitely boomers.
It's interesting because it kind of derived naturally
out of how kind of my whole company brand started.
My first product was just something I made for my grandma.
It kind of got this award and all of a sudden
the public knew about it and I had to create the business
at that point.
So like I was saying, the first product being specifically
designed for my grandma, who is a Jehovah's Witness,
very not cannabis friendly,
especially just given her age or background.
And so that naturally derived
kind of who my target audience would be.
And like right after we won our first Emerald Cup,
I remember the Sacramento Bee did a write-up about us.
And it was in the print version, buried in the pages,
tiny little font, and yet 200 boomers probably busted out
a magnifying glass to read my email address
and just blew me up.
And so that's kind of how we got started,
just serving our local Sacramento community
and taking it from there.
But the way it links up to what we're doing now
with the delivery service is that those 200
original customers, which we're all older people,
all people with pain, all people who were in the process
of getting kicked off their opiate regimens,
they're kind of the customer base
that I still have a deep loyalty to.
So when COVID happened and it became really unclear
if people would be able to still have access,
especially being an older generation, more vulnerable,
like maybe even going out to do curbside isn't an option.
I knew that I had to like quickly get a delivery on board
and to start making sure that they could get safe deliveries
at their homes.
So the delivery service I partnered with
offers contactless delivery.
They got it approved through the BCC,
emergency regulation style.
And so we're able to, they're able to go to my website
that they're familiar with, buy my products
and another other selected products curated
and get that delivered to their home
with no contact with the driver.
And that's how we're working it.
Hey, Chelsea, we were talking yesterday
about compassion programs as well in California.
Is that a part of what you,
are you able to utilize that and save some tax money
and that type of stuff?
So what I do is if I have or have any inventory
that's getting, you know, within four months or so
of it's COA's expiration date,
I just shift all of that inventory
over to compassion programs.
And so we're in the process of doing that right now.
We're gonna probably be putting out about like 300 units
of the deep skin into various compassion programs
around the state.
Are you seeing that there's a need?
I'm sorry, go, I'm sorry.
I was just gonna say,
can you elaborate on the mechanics of,
cause compassion is recently back, right?
So can you explain like when you say we're gonna give it,
like who are you giving it to?
Is it an official nonprofit or?
No, no, just normal retailers.
As long as they are prepared to deal with, you know,
the meticulae of properly documenting these transactions,
they can do it.
And they don't have to pay taxes
and you don't have to pay taxes
and the patient doesn't have to pay taxes
or what's the?
Taxes, I don't, I'm not an expert.
I have someone who figures that part out for me.
I'm just trying to get people taken care of.
I like giving away product.
Julie, I'm pretty sure that
that was recently amended, correct?
You don't have to pay taxes on compassion products.
I can speak to that a little bit if you want to.
So we had some product that had expired,
the testing, you know, the test expired in last July
and we were not sure what to do with this stuff.
And at that time I was in contact with a man
who's called Sweet Leaf Joe, right?
And he's been calling everybody probably.
And so I had like started down this pathway
of trying to figure out how to,
it was about six pounds of flour.
And the tax rate was at that point $148 per pound, right?
So in order for me to donate that six pounds,
I have to pay over 800 something dollars
in order to donate it.
It cannot be donated unless I pay that tax.
And I've already lost six times
whatever the pound price could have been,
plus trimming it, packaging it,
labeling it, testing it, et cetera.
So now I'm out somewhere around eight grand
just to try to donate some flour.
And personally as a farm, like I can't really do it
and I don't know what to do with it,
but either way I have to pay for it.
I have to pay for it to get destroyed
or I have to pay for it to get donated.
Kind of a tough one.
Have you tried making any donations recently?
Yeah, so this is still in the process.
So I'm not totally sure what's going to happen.
We're still kind of all figuring it out
because that's what I was under the impression
at the beginning that it was like,
oh, we're gonna donate this.
And it's like, we get to write it off.
Well, not really.
So we'll see.
I think over the next like month or so
I shouldn't have an answer about that.
Okay, Mike, do you wanna talk about
your target demographic with your solventless hash?
Go.
Absolutely, Peter.
More than happy to.
So both of our brands are targeting the market at large.
We don't wanna pigeonhole ourselves at all.
We definitely are interested in the over 65, the boomers.
We're really keen on them.
I love what you were saying, Chelsea.
I love your brand, where you're going.
That was so awesome.
The passion is obviously there
and your trajectory is noble.
So those things are hard to come by now
in the marijuana business.
So it's awesome to hear and see that.
Yeah, Cali Hash is definitely,
it's a solventless hash brand.
It's geared for the market at large.
We're definitely keen on the older people,
the younger people, all the people.
More importantly, our new brand,
the Hash Lab line of products
is gonna be all solventless based,
therapeutic, holistic, non-combustible products.
Tinctures mostly, right?
Tinctures, sublinguals, topicals, all of those things.
But nothing combustible.
So nothing you're gonna be smoking.
So really gearing towards the medicinal side
of the industry and really making a stark contrast
between a lifestyle brand and a medicinal brand
and what those two things are and why they're different.
And they're very different.
And as we evolve as an industry,
the medicinal side is only gonna grow
in importance and volume and all of those things.
Tamara, I wanted to ask you a quick question,
now that I have you.
I love your company, by the way.
Fucking amazing.
Very expensive, but very amazing.
Um, you mentioned that the volume is growing
in some of the smaller purchasing products.
I didn't phrase that perfectly.
The lower price point.
Lower price point products.
Yes, thank you.
Is that the race to the bottom of the weed competition
that's currently happening or?
No, actually.
And if you look at-
Right in the street, there's a real feeling
that there's a real race to the bottom
when it comes to the flower brands.
Just heading it out head to head.
It's all about who's got the most money
to withstand the most time.
And it's really- Totally.
It sucks. Totally.
But I just wanna get your take on that.
So it's funny that you say that
because actually I do agree that right now,
one of the biggest indicators of success
at is less on the demand side and more on the supply side.
Like who can just get products to dispensary shelves
better than anyone else?
In the lower, you're definitely saying
within the flower category.
So what I was pointing out in the slides
was specifically around the surge days, right?
The days where people were stocking up.
That's when you saw a surge, right?
Along with those surge days
in the lower price point products,
the under $20 products, right?
Which indicates that people were stocking up, right?
They wanted more to stock up on, right?
They wanted more in their back pocket at home, right?
In case they ran out, right?
Also anticipating for potentially larger
or more consumption, which as I mentioned earlier
was definitely the case with me.
Overall, not within those specific surge days,
but overall we're definitely seeing
more of a race to the bottom.
And I wouldn't quite yet call it a race to the bottom.
It's not Oregon, right?
Or where Colorado's at either.
I think California on the flower side
still has the second highest price point
out of all adult use markets.
Okay.
Nevada being higher.
But you're definitely seeing more value brands
coming to market, right?
I mean, Candessa just launched bakers
and we've seen Old Pal obviously taking a lot of share.
Within the manufactured goods,
I don't think that you're seeing,
you're not seeing such a race to the bottom.
And so we're not quite there yet,
but what is interesting within cannabis
is right now a lot of the pricing
isn't so much consumer driven.
In fact, a lot of what's happening at retail
isn't really consumer driven.
We're not really at a point yet
where consumers are walking in a dispensary saying,
I want Kiva blueberries.
And then the dispensary says,
I don't have Kiva blueberries.
And the consumer turns on and walks out, right?
Right now, a lot of what's moving at retail
is primarily driven by the supply side.
And what you said, right?
It seems like so much of what's moving
is just dependent on who's got the money
to put it on the shelves.
And you know what?
100%.
I mean, not that consumers
don't really have an influence right now, they do,
but we're not fully there yet.
We still have a lot of brand development
to do as an industry in terms of,
not just brand awareness,
but also obviously brand loyalty.
Right now, a lot of what moves at retail
is very much driven by a manufacturer's ability.
And I'm sure all of you sitting on this panel
can fully relate to this.
Manufacturers ability to scale
and get products on the dispensary shelves.
So.
Yeah, as a manufacturer,
my biggest challenge to date is distribution.
I'm sure you know about the distribution industry
in our sector here.
It's a shit show, you know?
I've heard a thing or two.
Yeah, it's ridiculous.
And I mean, I don't see it ever coming to a stability.
It's probably the last sector of our industry
that's gonna stabilize.
So, you know, for the 15, 20% of gross,
you know, it's just not enough for people.
It's just, it's, yeah.
So until we get people
that are managing accounts properly,
and right now, as a manufacturer,
I have to go in and manage the accounts myself,
which is infuriating, you know,
because it's the last thing I wanna be doing.
I wanna be making products.
That's not my job.
But to ensure my brand's, you know,
relevance and prevalence in the market,
I gotta go do it.
So, you know, it is, it's frustrating.
I wanted to ask you one quick question, Tamer.
In your opinion, how do we negate
in the flower side of things,
what's happened in Washington,
what's happened in Oregon?
How does California not go down that route?
I mean, the elephant in the room of your graph
was all of the other states were trending downwards,
you know?
And I see, and I said, you're absolutely correct.
California wasn't.
We were absolutely the only one trending up.
So how do we maintain that?
How do we not become Oregon or Washington?
Okay, I'm gonna turn off my video
so we don't get cut off again.
So we didn't, I don't think I showed
a state-by-state view of price points.
I may have, if I'm-
The graph I saw was just the three states
year-by-year trending up or down,
and then Oregon, Washington,
and I can't remember, Colorado, I guess.
I had the, well, anyway, I had consumer increase,
but on the price point side, though,
you know, obviously a lot of that has to do
with supply and regulations, right?
So with Oregon specifically,
you know, it was a bit of a free-for-all market, right?
Where, you know, and actually I'd be interested
to hear Chelsea and Chia speak to this,
but specifically Chia, but we had, you know,
in Oregon, they were handing out cultivation licenses
like there was no tomorrow, right?
So you just ended up in a situation
where the market was flooded with supply,
and, you know, it's also a good,
you know, great growing region, right?
As is California, but, you know,
so the licensing is a huge part,
and on the cultivation side.
Can we throw taxes into the mix?
What role they play?
Yes.
And then of course taxes, right?
So California has some of the highest taxation
out of all states, which in general is gonna continue
to impact consumer purchasing, right?
I mean, you know, we saw with the launch
of adult use sales, flour,
the flour category took the biggest hit, right?
And that's because with the launch of adult use sales,
right, in January of 2018 in California,
a lot of consumers, you know,
the Prop 215, like long-time consumers,
they were like, you know, for a part,
I'm not gonna, you know, pardon my French,
but like F this, you know?
And they were-
Pretty much so.
I have 600 dollar ounces.
They were very much like this.
And so, you know, this is California.
We know exactly where to find cannabis
and have never had a hard time finding it.
And so-
You mentioned before a number
that was really interesting to me.
You mentioned that California still has the highest price
per gram of marijuana.
Is that a fact?
And how are we in relevance to Washington or Oregon, say?
Not the highest.
And, you know, I should have actually included a slide
for this and didn't.
But, and I could look while we're on the call.
It'll take me a second.
But if I remember-
All this free information from BDS is amazing, by the way.
I'm not making it up.
Well, you're welcome also to hit me up afterwards.
Thank you.
I think, if I remember correctly,
California's second in flower price to Nevada.
Okay.
So, and I believe that's,
God, I'm not sure if it's with or without tax.
You know, I'm tempted to say it's without tax,
but I know Nevada has some of the highest prices by far.
In fact, I think the-
Price is driven by the tourist market of Vegas or?
Tourism, Vegas, you know, I mean, in general,
highly taxed market, right?
But California, because of, I mean, I don't,
we can get into why California is so highly taxed,
but I don't know that that's the purpose of this call.
And I'm sure that you guys have heard it eight ways.
You know, you've heard it, you know,
we've all exhausted that subject, but,
and also you could probably touch on it
a lot better than I could, especially-
None of us make any money.
There you go, done.
Yeah, exactly.
What is it, like how much percent of your revenues
goes to the tax man?
Yeah, it's a marginless business.
Right now I can probably speak for everybody here,
you know, as a craft producer or a craft manufacturer,
it's not a profitable enterprise.
You're just out there trying to maintain your brand,
keep relevant, keep in the marketplace.
And if you're doing that, you're doing great.
And you know, that's my opinion.
That's all we're doing.
City of California is your most expensive employee.
Yeah, absolutely, absolutely.
So just quickly, Chia, you had mentioned kind of
you as a supplier to other people in terms of your trim
and even some of the flour.
Mike, you're sourcing from farms,
to make solventless extraction.
Chelsea, is Newell's based on solvent
or solventless extraction?
And can you both talk about developing
and maintaining relationships with suppliers
of raw material and kind of the good, the bad, the ugly
of finding quality suppliers and reliable suppliers
and consistent suppliers and go.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I've actually had really good luck with my suppliers.
When I first started manufacturing in the legal market,
we were sourcing ethanol extracted crude
because we mainly work in THCA and CBDA.
So we were sourcing ethanol extracted crude
that was made at the facility
where we did our manufacturing.
And they were getting their material pretty much exclusively
from like Southern Humboldt and Mendocino.
So, you know, it was pretty decent.
I'm a little bit jealous of you Chelsea,
because it sounds like you have an easier time than me.
I'm sorry to hear that, man.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And what's funny is I've never used the same source twice
because I'm always just shopping around.
But so yeah, so we had the,
we had the crude that they were making there
and then something about a fire hazard,
they wouldn't approve their extraction any longer
because of something about the way the building was put up.
And so I had to go get it from elsewhere.
I ended up getting from Blessed Extracts
the next time through.
And then the most recent batch of products I made,
Blessed had run out of what I needed.
And so I actually called up Shannon Hatton.
She took her flour over to a processor,
had it turned into crude
and it was in my hands a week later.
Nice.
Yeah.
I wish I could say all that beautiful things
like you just said, Chelsea, but I can't.
I have just horror stories.
It's been terrible.
I think it's a little bit more challenging
as a solventless producer
because we really have to be so careful
about where we're sourcing it.
And then it is, you can't remediate.
There's no remediation.
In solventless product, there's zero remediation.
You can't remediate rosin, you can't remediate,
you can't remediate any of this stuff.
So you really, it's either clean 100% or it ain't.
So, we've had a rough time with it to be honest.
Now we're reduced to just finding it
from one specific lab downtown.
It's a 900 light facility that I know is super clean
and they are all the water.
But up North, I've had a real hard time with it
because a lot of the ground is contaminated.
Even a lot of these heritage farms.
And I go back in the industry
to the traditional side of things.
I mean, these three generation farms,
unfortunately a lot of them are contaminated
and I've learned the hard way.
I mean, I've had to shut down 80%
of my Northern production because of it.
And the biomass up there is much better.
And sun grown biomass makes much better concentrates always.
I abhor using lab grown biomass, I hate it.
I love sun grown biomass.
Michael, when you say contaminated,
are you talking about chemicals?
Are you talking about like heavy metals?
Heavy metals more than anything, heavy metals.
Fucking heavy metals.
Lead, lead is what you want.
Michael, what's your process?
What's your process when you go up North
for checking the cleanliness before you make a large sale?
How do you do that?
At first there was little process, Tom,
and I would just buy and then I would end up taking a loss.
Now we have a really stringent process in place.
We don't even trust COAs.
Because a lot of the times the biomass we're purchasing,
the only COA I get, because the only person by law
that's required to do a COA on biomass
is the last user of the biomass.
So essentially I'm getting COAs of the flower.
And a lot of times it can be indicative to a point,
but not truly indicative
because I'm concentrating the product.
So I'm not only concentrating the product,
but I'm concentrating the contaminants as well.
So even if I didn't pass the threshold,
if the threshold was, I didn't pass the threshold
on the flower or the biomass,
there's a good chance I'll pass it once I concentrate it.
So you have to be very careful.
In fact, the stuff I use now has to be zero.
And non-determined on everything,
on all 400 different things.
So if there's even a little number there on the COA list,
I just, I pass.
So can you test in the field?
Are there things you can do to test?
No, no, no, no.
It's a terrible process.
It takes a week.
I gotta pay even for the R&D side for full panel.
I'm sure everybody here knows it's,
down here in LA, it's 800 bucks.
I know up there it's a bit cheaper,
but down here, best case scenario is 600, 700, 800.
And it's a week to wait.
It's a real pain.
Yeah, it's a real pain.
That's why I'm really limited.
And I wish I could do what Chelsea does more
because I do have a lot of contacts and I love,
traditionally that's what I did.
I would go where the best biomass was.
And that's what led my process.
Now it's led by other factors, unfortunately.
And the biggest one of them being is the cleanliness.
And I say, unfortunately, on the other side of it,
now I recognize that we were consuming a lot of shit.
So I'm glad that, the other side of me is thankful
that I'm not smoking lead all the time.
So, you know.
Does it matter to you if it's indoor, green, outdoor?
Like I was saying before,
when I say sun grown, that's what I mean.
It's the difference between anything
that's grown in a controlled environment using the sun,
as opposed to using a controlled environment as a lab.
Now the lab stuff, and I, you know,
and people are gonna disagree with me on this, I'm sure.
But in my experience, what I'm looking for in my concentrate
is an incredibly oily, a long trichome,
a long cannabinoid molecule.
And if you look under, if you take your concentrates
and you put them under a microscope,
it's really interesting.
You'll see exactly how all these cannabinoids
are connecting and how they're, you know,
and distillate looks different,
and cold water looks different,
and CO2 extraction looks different,
and butane looks different.
And they all have their own little differences.
Whereas what I'm looking for
is the longest possible molecule.
And generally speaking, when you're using the sun,
you're getting a much more developed trichome.
When you're using,
doesn't matter what system you're using indoors,
it's just never gonna be the same thing.
And I don't, you know,
and we can argue back and forth about this,
but that's where I land on this one.
And in fact, and the market doesn't really resemble that
because the outdoor stuff,
even if it's very, very well maintained,
you know, these glass enclosed greenhouses,
it's still cheaper than my lab grown biomass down here.
I gotta pay upwards of $100 down here for a unit,
which is crazy, you know what I mean,
compared to what I used to pay.
So yeah, a lot of challenges.
Prefer the sun grown.
I wish I could just go up north and shop like I used to,
but yeah, it's a process.
I'd love to talk to you, Chia,
about potentially getting some of your biomass though,
now that I have you here.
We're making deals right on the webcast.
I love it.
Maybe.
But yeah, if I could get,
if I have permission to contact you after this,
I'll reach out to Peter
and we can maybe link up and figure something out.
I'm always looking for partners up north.
In fact, we're expanding up north this next year.
We're very keen on solidifying some supply lines up there.
So just quickly to take a little change of pace,
I wanna bring Julie into the conversation.
So Julie, can you talk about what's top of mind
for you and your clients
and what kind of fires you're putting out
and whether COVID-19 has created different fires
or it's the same business as usual fires?
So the good doctor, Dr. Julie Crockett.
Yeah, sure.
Hi, good morning.
Yeah, my, I mean, it's interesting
because my target market is actual licensees and operators
because I am a compliance person.
So my whole reason for being
is to help people navigate through all of these systems
and building their compliance programs
and dodging all the proverbial bullets
of being a licensed operator
in this beautifully over-regulated system
we have here in California.
And yeah, the COVID was definitely,
I mean, I'm busier than usual now.
It's been a very interesting time for operators,
both with, I think, any time that you have
to shift your operations and take on new processes,
especially during a crisis,
kind of as Chelsea was saying about like the delivery
that she got paired up with,
is there's so many people who just jump to making curbside
or jump deliveries or jump to doing contact-free delivery
because it seemed logical that you would do that
to protect people without necessarily taking the steps
of getting the right authorizations to do it
or documenting those processes or changing their SOPs
or training their staff on new protocols.
So it's kind of always the after the fact stuff.
I find that generally,
except for incredibly forward-thinking operators
who are really committed to compliance and the gate,
which isn't a lot necessarily
because obviously you guys have different concerns
and you're just trying to survive
and you're just trying to get on shelves
and you're trying to run your business.
Usually compliance doesn't truly come into it
with any sense of earnestness
until one, something goes wrong
and then they're like,
oh my God, we have to make sure
that we can dig ourselves out of this
or you get that notice to comply
or you have to deal with a crisis.
So a lot of times I'm brought into it
either in the midst of a crisis to try to unravel it
and get folks out of it
or in the better case scenarios
where it's kind of slow and steady from the gate
and we get to really lay the foundation.
But kind of like anybody navigating their business,
I think one of the biggest challenges with compliance
is kind of like it's failure from the gate.
There's so many things to comply with.
There's gonna be shortcomings somewhere.
So it does become a lot of prioritization
of what are the most important things
or what's the most evident thing
that you're gonna possibly have enforcement upon
or issues with.
So during this time, it's been a lot of,
even extending it out to safety protocols
and the employee training and SOPs and protecting people
and even bringing in aspects of HR and labor relations
because there's a lot of businesses
that have been trying to navigate,
what are the impacts of the federal payroll protection
on my business if you have over a certain amount
of employees or whatever your local ordinances are
and what is required of you in certain deadlines.
And the cannabis industry
is always under intense scrutiny, period.
And then now with the addition
of being deemed an essential business,
it's kind of amplified that scrutiny
because it's a really privileged position
that also we don't wanna lose for the industry.
So if we start having a rash of people who are getting sick
or businesses that aren't being responsible,
it's kind of that aspect that we all need to do our part
to support the industry,
to make sure that we all get to maintain this
with great power comes great responsibility.
And that's part of being an essential business at this time.
But a lot of the main focus,
a lot of the shortcomings that I see with folks
happens primarily in areas of documentation
because when you're in the middle of a crisis,
notifying the agencies or documenting your processes
or keeping your training logs up to date
aren't necessarily top of mind.
And that there are so many timelines
and requirements built into the regulations
of if this happens,
you're supposed to tell these people
within this amount of time.
And I think like I was saying,
day to day, that stuff isn't really a big deal
and you're not seeing a lot of enforcement on it,
but the issues typically are
when one thing goes wrong
and then you get kind of that magnifying glass
put on your business,
that then the agency start discovering
more and more and more issues.
So it's that kind of where,
the Pandora's box gets open
once they kind of start digging in there.
And I definitely think that operators
should be preparing for the fact,
like we've been going through a lot of these tumultuous
times where there's a lot of demands
on the agencies themselves,
where we're getting people temporary licenses,
we're getting people provisional licenses,
we're trying to onboard these businesses.
And my scenario is always the board on a Tuesday,
a couple of years from now,
where the agencies aren't bringing in tons of tax revenue
or licensing fees,
and they really start to lean on levying penalties
and fines as a way to generate that state income.
And they have a huge amount of breadth
in terms of where they can choose to do that
and how long they could do it for.
They have up to five years to turn around
and levy a penalty or fine.
So all of these friendly visits they've been having
where they come in and people are like,
it went great, they were nice, they didn't say anything.
I've started to see people start to get notices to comply
four to six months after that visit.
So they come and everything's great
and you think it went great.
And four months later, they're like,
oh, by the way, when we were there in January,
we noticed X, Y, Z, and you have 30 days to correct this
or you're gonna lose your license.
We're all in this together,
but I like to remind people,
as friendly as they may seem,
these people are not your friends.
And that you really have to be,
CYA is the word of the day in terms of making sure
and a lot of the way that we do that
and we do cover your assets is through documentation,
through training logs and through meetings,
at least the basics of the regs.
So to get to, I'd love to take these kind of general ideas
and get down to some concrete examples.
So does anyone, Chia, Mike, or Chelsea,
do any of you wanna lie down on the doctor's couch
and unburden your souls about a compliance issue
you're currently dealing with?
Or even a question you have or?
Not particularly myself, no.
And maybe we can throw the M word into the discussion,
the dreaded metric.
Yeah, and is that another like auditing of,
is that another big shoe that's gonna drop on operators?
For sure, I mean, I think we're definitely starting
to see the tightening of the metric screws,
as everyone knows, in May,
they shut down the ability to add a sourceless package.
So this seemingly infinite grace period we had
of that 30 days to onboard your existing inventory
came to an abrupt end on May 1st,
where now every package has to have a source.
So the state has decreed that anything that exists
at this point is in the system.
And if it's not, then you're gonna have a much harder time
putting it in the system at this point.
And obviously that came out with new guidance
on the day of that change in terms of how to do seeds
and clones and tissue cultures.
And they got the addition of a new little button
and not the tremendously ridiculous workaround
that was previously there that you like called
your cuttings trash and turn them into packages.
So we did see that shift, the next shift that's coming,
notice for June that now all the testing results
are going to be in metric and products won't be able
to proceed through the system if they don't have
in metric testing results attached to them.
So again, that impacts some people's old inventory.
And I think, like I was saying,
there's all of these regulatory notifications
that are required where right now
you haven't seen a lot of enforcement about it.
You haven't seen a lot of enforcement about,
report not reporting if you have more than a 3% discrepancy
in a 30 day period, for example,
or a 5% discrepancy if you're a manufacturer.
But we have to know that metric
is a gigantic data collection system
that's being reported directly to the state.
So as their analysts have more time
to be able to look at that system,
you will see people start getting close
and some people just started already
of seeing something anomalous in their metric data.
Sorry, my dog is barking at a coyote.
Get the coyote away.
Yeah, I know, okay, go away.
But you will see people start to,
the agency's paying more attention
to what those discrepancies are in a system
and following up on that.
I know operators in Oregon, for example,
that if you do something in your metric that's fishy,
you'll get a call in 24 hours from the state saying,
hey, we're looking at your metric,
we see something's weird, you need to explain this to us.
So I think those screws are starting to ratchet down
in that kind of educational period we've all been in
where the state's been real forgiving
and people are still figuring this out
is kind of winding down.
Sorry, I have one more question for you.
We've been talking a lot about the compassion programs,
especially in California and how people wanna utilize them.
But I'm wondering, people won't utilize them
if they're confused about how to integrate it into metric.
Is it clear how to do that?
Do you know how to take advantage of those programs
and not get in trouble doing so?
Yeah, I think, I mean, my understanding is that
it's a pretty, it's not a real graceful process
in terms of that there's a lot of limitations
to the way that the bill was written.
So especially some of the confusion comes from
when a product in its life cycle
has to be designated as compassion.
So my understanding, and I could be wrong
because I haven't dug into this so deep at that level,
is that you can't midstream suddenly decide
that your product is compassion,
that a lot of that designation,
I think in the intent of the bill
was that you're supposed to know from the gate
that a cultivator is supposed to be like,
great, okay, I'm gonna allocate 10% of everything I'm making
is gonna go to compassion.
Now, obviously that's ridiculous
and an operator should be able to designate at any time
that they want to donate that product.
And I think right now,
some of that is happening in case by case basis
where you're able to work with the agencies
to get that product designation changed,
but to truly reap the tax benefits of that,
I think you have to know way earlier down the supply chain
what the intent is of that product.
But, and it's kind of like the old days,
if we all remember when they were composing the regs
and they were gonna have separate medical
and adult use trails,
and they wanted you to know from the gate,
well, this I'm growing for medical
and this I'm growing for adult use.
And because we've kind of obliterated those lines
in California, it's nonsensical at this point
to try to preserve those.
We ran into that issue with COVID as well,
where certain localities were considering
only keeping medical cannabis retailers open,
which was insane because we're like,
you destroyed medical cannabis,
you obliterated it in this unification.
And that's still, I mean, from a tax granting perspective,
that's still, I think one of the highway robbery aspects
of the regulations is when they combine the medical
and the adult use, the fact that a 15% adult use
excise tax was applied to medical products
is such an egregious, ridiculous sin in my mind,
that's kind of something that I still hold that hope
someday gets unraveled.
Because it was never in our medical program,
it was never the intent, and that was an adult use tax
that shouldn't be applied to medical cannabis.
Hey, Julie, two things.
First of all, I love that you're an activist,
first and foremost, that's fucking awesome, you rock.
Two questions.
Firstly, what point along the supply chain
will a biomass need to be COA'd
in these new regulations that you mentioned?
Is it gonna be much earlier on?
Because currently my understanding of the regulation
is that it's just the end producer,
the end manufacturer of the biomass
needs to COA that biomass.
Is that gonna change now with what you mentioned?
Yeah, no, it's still wind testing is required
for it to move to, so you'll see in the metric update
they went out, there was a whole little grid
of kind of wind product.
Oh yeah, it's wind, it's a fun system.
It's like our own time machine.
We get to experience like late 80s technology every day.
You should be like, this system is so wild,
I wanna play like, you know, pong on it as well.
So there are obviously any point in the supply chain
where you weren't required to have testing at that point.
So for a cultivator moving, you know,
raw mass out to a manufacturer
that doesn't have to have a test
is only where you would have had to have
a final compliance test to move through the system.
Okay, awesome.
Then it's gonna.
Okay, that's so great.
Thank you for answering that.
I was already getting worried.
Second thing I wanted to mention was
I did get a visit from the BCC roughly three months ago
and we had exactly the same thing you said.
It was a great meeting, maybe one or two issues
on the packaging and the labeling,
but stuff we were amending, no problem.
Should I expect something negative to happen
in the next two months?
Who knows?
Yeah, I mean, one of the things I would recommend
after those visits is if there are things
that they pointed out to make sure that internally
you're creating a corrective action plan,
you're documenting that and you have that documentation
of what went wrong, how you fixed it,
when you fixed it, what you did,
because when you do get a notice to comply
and a notice to comply, it's a very scary looking document.
A lot of people to respond to it seriously,
it can be expensive because you wanna bring in
your legal team to draft a letter to make sure
that you're not attesting something you don't wanna say
to the agencies, but it will make that response
if you do get one so much easier
if you already have all that documentation of,
yeah, we fixed it and here's how we fixed it
and everything's fine.
So I think that's a muscle that everyone is developing
at this point is to get really comfortable
with the exposure and with the interactions
with the agency to be able to show like,
here's my process, here's how I'm documenting it,
my logs are on point, and that once you have
kind of that documentation, it really gives you
that sense of security.
And same thing with how we use metric,
like I always encourage everybody to blow up
that notes field in metric when you're making adjustments,
when you're making changes, whatever you're saying,
because the whole question is, if the agency's asked you
about something four months from now,
do you have enough documentation on hand
that you're gonna be able to go, oh, yes, of course,
I know exactly what happened.
I destroyed that, we have, here's the wait ticket
or whatever it is, that it's easy for you
to have that recall and have that documentation
of pretty much just proving that you followed
the correct protocol.
Awesome.
And it sounds like you're saying
that the state never forgets.
I don't think so.
I don't think they do.
And as in everything, it's one of the,
like I compare it a lot to like buying insurance.
Like you pay for your insurance all the time
and most of the time, hopefully you don't need it.
You don't use it, you don't end up in the hospital,
but it's that, because the agencies
have so much discretion and because we don't have
enough clear data yet on their enforcement priorities
or their enforcement practices,
it really is kind of like a needle in the haystack thing
of like, well, maybe they're gonna show up
and have a huge problem with this one, maybe they're not.
And we don't really know.
And I think for the, to keep operators
from having ulcers and anxiety attacks
in an already challenging environment,
that's one of the ways in which compliance
can be really comforting to be like,
I know where my binder is, I can supply those records
and also not being like a gerbil in a wheel,
like having a really clear sense of,
here's what the regulations require of me.
I can check all of these boxes.
I know I have this documentation that they asked for,
and same thing.
And then you don't also don't have like software companies
trying to sell you bajillion dollar software
for a bunch of stuff you don't need.
Because you're like, here's my categories.
This is what I need covered.
And then once you kind of have that sense of security
that your baseline is pretty good,
then you get the kind of like Michael was saying,
like, then you get into what you really wanna be doing,
which is like creating new products
and thinking about how you make stuff
and finessing your processes
rather than spending so much time
just on these like basics of is track and trace working
and am I gonna get in trouble today?
Julie, can I ask you a question?
Have you heard of, I heard a rumor that CDFA or BCC
was gonna do a virtual inspections
during this COVID-19 time.
Have you heard of anybody getting one of those?
I haven't heard of anybody getting one
on like an enforcement visit yet,
but I have heard that they may do some of those
for things like, I mean,
this is what they're doing in Vegas, for example,
for onboarding of licenses
or if you're adding a distribution vehicle
and they want to inspect it.
I've heard about them using it for those kinds of aspects.
If there's something in the licenses or renewal
that requires a inspection to look forward,
but I haven't personally,
though I wouldn't put it past them,
heard of somebody having like,
hey, we need to come look at your facility,
so put us on FaceTime and walk us through.
Yeah, I just wonder how that would work out.
For me on a farm, that would be really interesting
and hard to do, I think.
Yeah, and I agree with you.
Like I would way rather be out there in the garden
and have my hands in the dirt
than on the fucking computer, pardon my French,
doing metric entry all the time.
Like I do all that for our farm
and it's endless and it's really ridiculous.
And when you were saying on this on May 1st,
when everybody had to enter all that data
to like the original source thing,
I was actually trying to just make a transfer
from a distributor to come to my farm.
And the system was so locked up because it's so archaic
that I could not get a transfer manifest finished that day
because of the fact that everybody was in the system
trying to finalize all this stuff.
So it was making business really difficult
just for regular transaction to happen
when the van is literally like on its way here
and I could not get the system to work.
So hopefully we move past that.
I don't have any big surges in that system like that again,
but yeah, it was a really challenging day.
Just quickly, Chia, as our resident plant tagging expert,
can you give an update, kind of a state of the union
on the sensibleness or nonsensibleness?
Like tell us what you have to do
in relation to tagging plants from clones to juveniles,
to dying plants, to whatever, and where you see it going.
Like what are the conversations between cultivators
and CDFA in terms of moving
in a more sensible, fair direction like other crops?
Yeah, I'd be happy to.
You know, I think just to touch on what Julie was saying
a moment ago about documentation,
the way that I create a lot of documentation
in the metric system is I call them.
You know, I will email them or call them
about little tiny minute things
and then they have to send you an email back
that says yada yada do this, that, and the other thing.
So that's the documentation.
And then I also do put a lot of notes in the notes field
to protect myself because like you said,
so I have a nursery and a cultivation license.
So there's a lot of, you know,
little nuances within the nursery side of things
that are really challenging where I,
if I wanna make clones, right,
before I had to call them waste from a plant,
then I had to go in and create an item,
then I had to go create clones from this nothingness.
Basically it was very weird,
like seven steps to get to creating clones.
And then, you know, you can clone,
you can tag one tray of say up to a hundred clones.
Well, the thing that's challenging in that
is that there's a lot of stuff to pay attention to.
You know, you have damping off, you have, you know,
things die, things don't root, whatever,
in that process, but then moving them through the system
gets even more challenging because obviously
you're not gonna put a metric tag
around this tiny little stem and like clog up your tray
with all this stuff, you have one tag on the tray.
Well, as soon as you move them into,
you can transplant them into dirt,
then like you don't have to put a tag on it.
And I started doing that in the beginning
because why do extra work if you don't have to?
Well, the problem is that as you move those plants around
and you put them somewhere in the greenhouse
and then you, you know, things get confusing,
they get lost really easily.
And like, what is this batch attached to that?
And, you know, there's a lot of tagging going on.
So I spent a lot of time creating spreadsheets of tags
on my own tagging system that matches up
to the metric tagging system so that I know
that this thing is related to that number
and it's insane amount of waste of time, basically.
And then on another note, so I have my cultivation
and I have my nursery.
If I wanna move plants from my nursery,
which is literally one foot away from my cultivation
on my own farm, I have to have a distributor on site,
come to my farm to move the plants,
which they don't actually touch them.
They just have to be here to sign the paper
that says that that happened.
Otherwise I have to have my own distribution license,
which I don't, I can't afford that.
I don't want that, I don't want a vehicle,
I don't wanna have to pay extra taxes,
I don't wanna deal with all that bullshit.
So I have to find a distributor and make that happen
like within a, you know, convenient timeframe
that like today, for instance,
I have a distributor coming here right after this call
that is gonna pick up the last of my cannabis from 2019.
So I'm thinking, okay, well, how can I utilize the fact
that that distributor is going to be on site at this time?
Well, maybe I should figure out real fast
which plants I need to move from my nursery
to my cultivation and make an extra transfer document
and have them do that on site.
So things like that are just completely wasted time.
Just for clarification, Chia,
are the nursery and the cultivation
the same corporate entity or are they two different,
so it's the same company?
Yeah, yep.
Yeah, kind of like Chia's saying,
I mean, there's so many cultivators
that ran into an issue too of just that,
how those licenses interact where, you know,
they may have gotten multiple, you know, small licenses
thinking, oh, okay, I can have a bigger footprint
if I get all of these different small licenses.
But they failed to get a nursery license
and a processing license.
So then you're in a horrible pickle
where you can't have the immature area from one license
serving up another license without that nursery license
and you can't be processing all of that cannabis
in the same space if you don't have a processing license.
So you'd have, you know, people who already went
through the whole licensing process
and then realize that it doesn't work, you know,
in terms of how you're lining up that system
and having to go back and either,
you know, get those additional licenses,
which is its own, you know, very difficult process
or having to process individually each of his,
you know, premises and feed them
from their own immature plant area,
which is also a ridiculous and terrible solution.
And not to mention, you know, like all of the accounting
and the, you know, the time and the hours that it takes
to, if you had all those licenses,
one person is going to have to track all those transactions
through the whole system in your own system.
It takes so much time to manage all that.
You know, my husband is the cultivator.
He does all the farming, really.
I mean, I make it look pretty
and do all the metric stuff out there,
but, you know, like there is no way, no way,
even a 2,500 square foot that those cottage cultivators
can do this on their own.
Back in the day, it was one farmer did his whole thing.
He did it from start to finish on his own.
That was it, right?
Maybe he'd bring in some people here and there
to do the harvesting or whatever.
These days, you know, I have to be 100%.
I am the accountant.
I am the metric person.
I do all the sales.
I do all the collections.
I do all the bank, you know, everything myself.
And I barely even get out into the garden.
And when I do, you know, it's wonderful.
It feels good, but, you know, it's super frustrating.
And, you know, on the cultivation side,
like we have, we've been doing this.
This is our 22nd season of cultivating here on my farm,
or well, 19 on this farm.
And, you know, we've seen it all.
We went through like, you know, growing up,
I went through the Reagan era of like hiding
under the trees of the helicopters everywhere.
You know, we've done all that,
cultivated literally in platforms and trees
and hid stuff in the bushes and on the side of the hill
in order to have this lifestyle.
And as soon as there was a pathway
to move into legalization, we took it.
We took it every single step of the way.
And I've seen it all.
We've done everything.
We've complied with everything possible
in order to, you know, live this culture.
And this is our lifestyle.
Cannabis is my life.
It's been that way forever.
I want to continue doing this.
I want to pay taxes.
I want to be recognized.
I want to be in the legal market,
but it's so difficult and it's so challenging
and it's so stressful that there are days
me and my husband turned to each other
and we were like,
can we move to a freaking tropical island tomorrow?
Like, I don't want to do this anymore.
And it's because of all these little things
that we're talking about that are so ridiculous
and over, you know, just over-regulated.
There's way too much stuff that needs to happen.
And I understand, like,
let's try to keep stuff out of the black market.
Like, that's the point of the metric system, right?
Ultimately.
You know, there's a lot of workarounds.
I see a lot of people doing really weird stuff,
asking strange questions on this,
you know, like Mendocana Action.
Peter, you were asking about that.
This is a forum that we have on Facebook
where a lot of people in Mendocino County and beyond
go on to ask advice and share information
and all that and network.
And, you know, nobody really knows what to do
and how to do it.
We're all just trying to help each other through it.
And you could call a thousand times
and you'd get a different answer
every time from somebody at metric.
Or, you know, you call BCC and nobody has an answer for you.
You call CDFA because, like, for instance,
I got a letter saying, from CDFA,
saying that metric, gosh, I can't remember exactly
what it was at this moment,
but that I needed to do something in the metric system.
So I call metric to ask them how to do it.
They say, we don't even know what you're talking about.
Who sent you that letter?
CDFA sent it to me.
So call them.
Okay, so I call them.
They say, we never sent that to you.
Like, what am I supposed to do here?
You know, I'm trying,
I'm just, like, backpedaling all the time
to try to keep up with what I'm supposed to be doing.
In the meantime, I could be spending that time,
money, and effort, like, making my brand better,
getting more contacts and dispensaries.
Like, you know, there's a million other things
I could do with my time.
So, long story short.
I have a question.
How do you manage these challenges
and this pain across the 50 farms?
Under Mendocino.
Yeah, so Mendocino Generations
is an alliance of about 50 farms.
We have fluctuated over the years.
We started in 2015 out of basically desperation
of, like, how are we as heritage cultivators
gonna survive this tsunami that's coming?
We know that's coming.
So we align together to try to figure out ways
to support each other.
Like, you know, everybody says, we're all in this together.
So I live in a back-to-the-land hippie commune, basically.
And I have a couple neighbors
who are also about the same age group as me and my husband.
And they wanted to kind of move forward
in legalization as well.
And they saw us sort of paving the way.
Locally, we had, you know,
we got, like, the 12th permit in Mendocino County.
We always kind of got right in the front of the line
for things.
So folks were, like, asking my advice
and trying to get help moving down that road.
And, you know, there's a lot of folks
who were in that older age bracket in our group
in the very beginning
that they were on the verge of retirement,
but they'd been cultivating for 40, 45, 50 years,
some of them, and they're teaching their children to do it.
And so the next generation is coming up.
But this older generation sort of decided
and realized as things started moving forward
that they couldn't do this, and they did not want to,
and they backed out.
So our group has sort of changed in numbers over the years,
but here we are with somewhere around 50 farms.
And those farms, you know, they're on their own.
They're individual.
We're not necessarily always pushing and promoting.
We've tried different things.
Like, we tried putting different farms' flour
in one brand as the Mendocino Generations brand.
That turned out to be kind of a nightmare
on a lot of different levels.
It's hard to keep track of those things.
But really, we ultimately are pushing and helping,
you know, get the sales going for people,
helping them find good contacts,
reliable manufacturers and distributors all the time,
and promoting that sun-grown flour.
So does that answer your question?
Yeah.
It's been a challenge.
You know, people are trying to move forward,
and I think people really, really want to do this,
and they're standing in line down at Planning and Building
in Mendocino County trying to get, you know,
their buildings permitted and their things in line
so they can actually get a license and get a permit,
and that's not happening.
It's really not happening.
We had a surge in the beginning.
We have somewhere around 200,000 people
somewhere around 250-some-odd permits in Mendocino County,
and that number has pretty much just stayed,
you know, for the last two years.
We haven't really seen new people getting permitted,
but yet they're getting that state license.
They're jumping ahead and getting the state license
because they've got, like,
preliminary approval from the county,
and the county is just so far behind,
they cannot possibly, you know,
right now they're closed down.
I can't get an answer, and I have deadlines
that are coming up for myself for permits
and licenses on various things, so.
And you had also mentioned earlier
that you're seeing a rise in busts of cultivators,
and, Julie, and these are also people
who are trying to transition into the legal market
but haven't been successful yet.
And I'm wondering, Julie, are you seeing any of that
with people that are trying to move in,
but the process has stalled or slowed down for them,
and then the hammer comes down on them?
Well, I mean, I'm down here in LA,
so the whole thing is a stalled process down here
of, you know, trying to get the next phase open.
And, you know, you certainly know,
I mean, anecdotally, I know people
who have been waiting a very, very long time
trying to come into the license market
and, you know, expressing frustration.
I mean, and the thing that's heartbreaking
is, like, especially down here,
is a kind of ease of, you know,
there's a draw and appeal to the illicit market
because it's so much easier in so many ways.
You can't blame them for doing that,
especially with cultivation.
Like, people have been doing it forever.
Yeah, yeah, the people, you know,
the heartbreak and the promise
of what Prop 64 was supposed to be and supposed to mean,
both as that kind of legitimacy and decriminalization
and as a social justice bill,
like, just the whole thing has been
heartbreak after heartbreak of it
not really panning out that way.
And even the protections of smaller farmer,
you know, all of it that we thought was, you know,
what many people thought they were gonna get
out of that bill.
And in some ways too, like the,
I don't know what the right word is,
impotent and misguided, you know,
enforcement efforts in some way,
or just like the historical blindness
that prohibition has never worked.
It's never worked.
It's never been a thing.
And I do hold out like a childlike
and naive perhaps feeling that I believe that in,
you know, maybe 10 years or something,
I do think eventually cannabis will be no different
than almonds or lettuce or anything else.
Like I think that we'll get there.
And the reminder for the people
who are going through that process right now
and who are doing the licensing is that, you know,
we are on the front lines of combating
so much prejudice and stigma and prohibition
and fear in the minds of regulators who,
you know, these are the same people who, you know,
in their minds put cannabis as a schedule one
on par with all other schedule one drugs, you know,
who think like this is a huge social ill
and realizing like where the enforcers are coming from
and the training and indoctrination that they've received
of, you know, thinking that we're gonna take any opportunity
in the licensed industry to divert to the illicit market
where, you know, where those of us who are operating know,
like you're not gonna divert out of metric.
Like nobody's gonna put anything in metric
if they're then gonna try to divert that track.
Like nobody would even get a license
who really has, you know, a heartfelt intent
to function on the illicit market.
And that, like how hard it is to try to do it right at all.
And in how little help the industry is getting
so far, you know, in terms of the fact,
and especially even right now, again, back to COVID,
it's a very difficult time because the public narrative
of this time since being deemed essential is like,
well, cannabis is booming and everybody's doing great.
It's been very difficult to get any sense of relief
from the agencies during this time for, you know, people,
you know, here we are in our, like Chia was saying,
where people have licensed renewals
and local offices are closed
and it's difficult to move these processes along.
And the state's perspective is like, you're doing great.
So yeah, on track, pay your licensing fee, let's do it.
And there's no grace period.
There's no extension of deadlines.
There's no tax relief.
And then even from a legislative perspective
of all of these, you know, things that we were still trying
to push along, because legislatively we know like last year,
there's still no trade samples.
Like our trade samples bill failed.
There's no tax relief or reform.
And there's not gonna be because now every single bill
at the legislative level is put on hold
unless it directly relates to COVID.
But then it's also restructuring that narrative
because then like tomorrow, you know,
you look at the cannabis industry and here we are,
we're surviving, we're creating jobs.
People are still working.
Maybe you should support us.
Like maybe we're doing a good thing
for the state at this moment.
So, I mean, it's just so-
That's revenue.
Yeah, and then, yeah, like here,
we're still bringing in the taxes.
We're doing it.
Oh, and it's just so heartbreaking
because we're like the abused child
that just can never like impress their parents enough.
It's just like, look at us, we're trying.
And we just keep showing up, you know,
to try to, you know, to try to help people.
And it's so absurd.
And I like to like jump forward and look back on it
from like a future historical perspective
where it's like-
They will laugh about this.
Yeah.
The shit show that is regulated California cannabis.
So just quickly, we're on the home stretch
and I wanna give people an opportunity
to draw attention to something
that they think the California cannabis community
should pay attention to.
So Chia, I wanna start with you.
Can you talk about some raids and busts
that have been going on recently
in your neck of the woods?
Okay, so yeah.
So meanwhile, those departments are still active, right?
Those guys are still busting people
and some things are for good reason.
There's some interesting things going on
and up in our area, in the Covolo area,
there was recently a very large bust
that they had been trying to bust for a while
and they didn't really quite have a reason to,
or, you know, just hadn't got it started.
And there was a missing persons report.
Turns out it's tied to this big bust
that just happened there.
And, you know, these are illegal operators
and, you know, even some of the Covolo residents
have remarked lately that that operation
has cleaned up the neighborhood
because it's very tight and nice looking.
It looks like a legal operation from the outside.
And, you know, then we have these other folks,
for instance, in Humboldt recently,
where there has been some, oh, there you go.
Yeah, Peter's got it up there.
So there's been some busts recently in Humboldt County
and Northern Mendocino County,
where some of these people have been trying to get licensed.
They have been in line, they've put in an application,
they have like done the things that they need to do,
and for some reason they can't move forward.
Maybe it's they can't move past
the Department of Fish and Wildlife.
Maybe they are not able to get that piece
of the puzzle finalized.
I have a neighbor, for instance,
who has been waiting for his local permit for two years.
There is zero reason he should not be getting that.
It's just that they have over 2000 applications
sitting on their desk.
They've approved 250 of them.
They've denied about the same amount.
What's going on with the rest of that stack?
And in the meantime, those people are obviously
gonna keep cultivating because that's how
they pay their bills, that's how they live.
They're not gonna go get a job, especially not right now.
So then you have the helicopters flying around.
They're still busting people.
They're still drawing maps with circles on them saying,
these are the targets we're gonna hit this summer.
And those people are, they're family folk.
They've been trying, they've been doing this forever.
They would like to be in the system.
They would like to pay taxes.
They want to do that, but yet they cannot.
And so those busts have been happening
and that's pretty frustrating for somebody like me
who is regulated and licensed to watch my friends
and neighbors get in trouble for something
that I almost feel it's like when there was the fires
and your house survives and your neighbors burns down,
you have survivor's guilt.
It's kind of the same thing.
I feel bad for those people.
They've been trying, they wanna do it.
So yeah, so there's some of that going on, Peter.
I don't know too much detail and I don't know,
I haven't had any personal friends necessarily
get busted in this year,
but I'm sure that that's going to happen, unfortunately.
Hopefully they'll leave the little guys alone
and go for these more large egregious things,
especially ones that are on forest land
and public lands and things like that,
like they used to do.
Mike, anything top of mind for you down here
in the LA world?
Well, hold on, wait, let me unmute you.
Okay.
And Mike, you're someone who in the midst of all of this
is actually launching a new product.
So talk about that.
So not only is it a challenge to launch a new brand,
a new product line, which we're doing,
but expanding Cali Hash has been a challenge as well.
The only way we've been able to expand traditionally
is by getting out there to the dispensaries,
FaceTime, and obviously that's been impossible.
So it's really been a challenge.
So yeah, launching HashLab is,
we haven't launched the product yet.
We're probably three weeks out.
And no trade samples either, right?
No trade samples yet.
And, but the minute that we are,
we're gonna, it's gonna be a much less aggressive rollout.
Whereas traditionally we would have approached
all 50 retailers that I currently have product in.
Now I'm gonna target 10 to 15
and roll it out a little bit more tranched,
a little bit more at pace.
But that's just being cautious.
We're also moving facilities.
So, you know, there's a lot of internal reasons
for that as well.
But for us, we're such a small guy.
I mean, we are like the definition of small in every way.
I never took investment from anybody.
The way we got to where we are today
is by partnering with like-minded people
from the traditional space.
You know, I'm not part of the new wave of marijuana,
thank God.
And so, and it's actually played to our advantage right now.
Not only do the consumer recognize us
as being heritage authentic,
but now we're picking up the pieces
from a lot of these guys.
I mean, I'll give you the perfect example
from my point of view.
A year ago, I couldn't find a lab space
for less than $12 a square foot.
Now I have over 250,000 square feet available downtown
for roughly between two and $3.
I mean, so it's a vastly different market
than it was six months ago.
And I'm sure even everybody here in Chia especially
can appreciate that.
To survive in this industry,
you have to be so nimble, so lean and nimble
is the phrase I like to use a lot.
And a lot of these big guys don't have that ability.
And they're just hemorrhaging capital.
Mad men, even Candescent was mentioned earlier.
I mean, if you look at their books,
it's a murder scene.
I've never seen so much red in my life.
So, in the end of the day,
who's gonna be there in the long run?
I don't know.
It's anybody's guess at this point.
But what I do know is that when you're operating
an entity with zero debt and you have market share
and you have customer loyalty,
I think you're in a better position
than maybe some of these bigger guys
that might have more market share,
but they have incredible amount of debt.
They're answering to investors from Wall Street,
investors from God knows where else.
And the plug can be pulled at any time.
And they're beholden to the capital markets
which are all gonna dry up in the next year,
which already are drying up.
So, I think all of us are positioned much better
than those guys right now.
So, I think I wanna leave it on that note.
The little guy is king right now
and long live the little guy.
And so, if people are watching
and are about to go into their dispensary,
should they support the little guy?
Please support the little guy.
We just launched our prequel line
and that's how we actually are expanding
in this environment.
It's by launching other product categories
under our current brands.
Launching a whole new brand is gonna be challenging.
I don't deny that.
But the way we're surviving right now,
like for example, we just expanded our product category
to include pre-rolls.
So, now we have infused pre-rolls.
And I don't know, Tamara, are you still around?
I can't see you on my videos.
But the BDS Analytics numbers that I use
that I most frequently cite are 2% of the general market
is cold water extract, 30 something percent
of the general market is pre-rolls.
Or whatever, 10% was it in our last graph, whatever it is.
But the point is, it's a much bigger portion of the market.
Cali Hash was very specialized in the beginning.
So, we had a very, very limited market.
And so, the way we hope to grow, hope to survive,
hope to expand going forward is by using that loyalty
to our advantage, using our customer base to our advantage
and slowly developing new product lines
and new categories that our people appreciate.
And again, our branding is all about cleanliness,
all about solvent-less.
So, we're hoping that resonates with the consumers.
And our tincture of our new brand tastes amazing.
I know Tamara was talking about taste earlier,
so I'm very excited to hear about that
because the vast majority of tinctures out there
taste a little funky.
So, we're really happy.
It's not flavored.
It tastes like, all that's in it ingredient-wise
is hash and MCT oil and specific curing methods
to get different formulas.
And there's some more nuance to it than just that,
but essentially that's it.
So, the flavor profile you're getting are very benign.
They're very soft, creamy almost.
You're getting a lot of the hashine, the pepper,
those terpenes.
You're not getting any alcohol, obviously,
because it's only MCT oil.
You're not getting any additive flavorings,
no weird fucking artificial strawberry
or whatever people are at.
So, yeah, we're really happy.
Pina Colada.
Yeah, and teach their own.
But we really, I'm a big believer in authenticity, purist,
and really just not complicating things,
minimal amount of ingredients, simplicity,
keep it simple, kiss, and hopefully that works.
Chelsea, how about you?
Are you launching, are you guys,
do you have any new products in the works?
And can you talk about your, you guys are small.
Do you have outside investors?
I don't wanna talk too much about the funding thing.
That's getting a little into the weeds,
but we definitely are launching new products.
I had done a one-off test batch of a bath soak
back in November.
We entered that into the Emerald Cup
and it won in the CBE category.
So we've just finally done a full-size production batch
for the market of that.
And that started going out to stores like three-ish,
no, about a month ago, actually.
And that's been complicated with COVID.
I think there were a whole six weeks or so
where we didn't sell anything
because our salespeople were all not able
to do any face-to-face time.
There was a couple of weeks where I called around
to talk to buyers and they were in quarantine.
I guess they thought that they had had exposure.
And so they were isolating for two weeks
and not involved in the operation.
And even stores that were doing a steady throughput,
just not being able to have that in-store experience
has really impacted sales.
But-
Just quickly, is that the bath bomb?
Yeah, so that was the original, the first run packaging.
It's a little bit different now, but yeah.
That's the bath soak.
Is it a ball, Chelsea?
No, no, no, it's a salt.
So it's an Epsom salt, pink Himalayan blend.
Yeah, I should probably put like a-
That's a great product for now.
I've got some retailers down here
and I'd be more than happy to put a word in for you, Chelsea.
I've got some great relationships down here
and I can get stuff on their shelves
just with a phone call.
Yeah, that would be amazing.
I'll call you later after this
and we'll sort it out for sure.
Okay, I really appreciate that.
Yeah, that'd be great.
Love your products.
I love you, you're awesome.
Thanks.
So we're also, we're planning over the next six months
to drop a massage oil
that is a variation on our original formula,
but just instead of being designed to absorb super fast,
it's designed to do the opposite,
to stay in place on the skin for a long duration
so the actual massage can occur.
And then we're getting into,
so part of that funding thing, it's taken care of.
It comes with a partner.
Partner has big machines, like a gel encapsulation machine.
So we're gonna actually be putting out
a line of mixed botanicals with select cannabinoid profiles
for addressing various specific issues.
I was gonna say, nutraceutical, yeah.
So it's cool that they have toys you can play with
and make interesting products out of that excite you.
Yes, very much so.
And Chia, any new, are you guys all flower and pre-rolls
or are you?
Yeah, actually I have a line of topicals
that I've been making for about 15 years
that I'm hoping to launch this year.
We were trying to do that in March,
but that didn't quite happen.
So maybe we'll get that together by this coming winter.
We had issues with manufacturing space as well.
But yeah, just continuing flower.
I have a crop in the ground right now.
So light-dip will be out in about six to eight weeks.
We'll have some fresh goodness.
So looking forward to that.
And are there any new genetics you're running this season
or is it all the same as last year?
Yeah, we will have some new things.
We had a new strain this last year
called pineapple cheesecake.
And just, I was really happy to hear about the taste
and the flavor being like the number one thing
and that we've got a ton of great response on that.
People love the pineapple cheesecake.
So excited about that.
We're also moving into working with a manufacturer
that we're gonna be making some specific,
some RSO basically for the market,
which is something that, you know.
Are they based in Mendocino as well?
Are they local?
No, they're actually in San Francisco.
And they also, they have a delivery service as well.
So it'll be a great way to just direct to consumer.
They have a great, they already have a good consumer base
for that product as well.
And so anyways, I'm looking forward to that,
just providing some real medicine.
We're all about medicine people
and better living through cannabis is our motto
and whatever that takes.
You know, whatever people need really.
It's interesting to me that you've been making topicals
for 15 years and in the nightmare
that is the regulated California market,
it is difficult for you to onboard them into your business.
Yeah, the challenge is that it's, you know,
maybe I'm a little witchy
and I make every batch is slightly different.
And you know, like it's hard to have consistency
and I also don't wanna give my recipe away, honestly.
That's been my challenge is like, okay,
if I work with somebody,
then all of a sudden they have my recipe
and honestly I don't think it'll turn out the same
as how I, when I make it.
There's something about the love
and the magic that goes into it.
Right, but pre-regulated market,
you didn't have to work with some,
you could just do it yourself and sell it to your,
or give it away or sell it to your friends or whatever.
Yep, and I, you know, we used to do a lot of events,
these farmers market things
and I sold tons of it at those.
People love that stuff.
But now I just kind of been holding back on it.
It's, you know, it's a challenge.
One thing like Michael was talking about
is like the contaminants, right?
I know that my cannabis is clean,
but what about the other herbs that are going into there?
I haven't gone forward to test that in a concentrated level
and that makes me nervous.
Honestly, they're organic and so is the oils
and all the things that go into it, but.
What thresholds are they using?
Yeah, and you know, what are they testing for?
Where we're testing for so many other things in cannabis
that we hadn't looked at before.
So my whole thing is herbal infusion.
We've never failed a test for any pesticide or heavy metal.
We infuse whole herbs that are organically sourced
from, you know, your usual suspects,
star botanicals and frontier.
And we've never had a problem, so.
Good, I think I feel good.
So far.
Well, what's interesting is.
The only beeswax is the trap.
Don't fall into the beeswax trap.
Ah.
That's the bad one.
Just quickly, last week or the week before,
we had Wendy from Space Gems on
and she was talking about, you know,
having to find different sources for things
given the lockdown coronavirus.
And then her big fear was, you know,
she'll get dinged not for the extracted cannabis oil,
but from adding these new,
organic, you know,
non-cannabis ingredients in her edibles.
Yeah, it's a concern for sure.
So anyway, everyone.
So anyway, if there are no last words,
I think we can wrap on that.
Anyone know?
I just.
All right.
Go ahead, Chia.
I was just gonna say support the small companies.
I think everybody can agree on that.
When you go into a dispensary,
go for the brands that come straight from the,
you know, the source.
And don't get these large brands.
You know, I mean, they deserve the shelf space too,
of course, and competition is wicked out there.
But the small farmers,
and this is where all the product comes from
and for all these products,
as you can tell from this conversation.
So supporting those small operators is king.
Thank you.
I also just wanted to say that,
you know, a lot of times in the industry,
people are like,
well, how come the tobacco industry can do this?
Or how come the alcohol industry can do this?
Or the rights and the privileges
of other established industries.
And a lot of those came from having incredibly strong,
well-developed trade unions and lobbying arms.
And as much as it is so difficult to be a small operator,
it is critical that we all band together
through the trade organizations
and through the political action
to try to carve a path for us to be able to survive.
Because as we've seen,
the agencies and the governments
are not gonna do the industry any favors
that they do not fight tooth and nail for.
So that's one of the reasons why I've been so involved
in the state trade organization
and trying to work with the local organizations
to try to push that stuff through.
Because we really have to get those changes made
to carve out a place for the smaller businesses as well.
Because it can't just be the well-funded gigantic companies
who are sending their lobbyists in
to fight for their needs.
And there truly is power in numbers
when the smaller operators band together
and flex their political muscle.
So just quickly on that,
can everyone give a shout out to one or two local
or statewide trade groups that they think
are doing a good job fighting on their behalf?
Chia?
Well, locally we have the MCA,
which is the Mendocino Cannabis Association,
which had been three or four different organizations
that have now combined efforts,
seeing that everybody was fighting for the same cause
but ultimately, might as well just combine efforts
and make things happen from that level.
So locally that's been one of the best advocates
on the small farmer side.
I think in LA, it's all about the retail.
Chelsea?
Mike?
Sorry.
Go ahead, Mike.
Oh, sorry, Kelsey.
So I think down here in LA,
obviously manufacturing is a big thing down here,
but it's really the retail sector.
So really for us, it's,
God, I'm forgetting their name now.
Well, there's UCBA, Southern California Coalition.
Julie, any others that?
Yeah.
Glocka?
Yeah, I think Glocka was the one,
but now they're part of the Southern California Coalition,
I believe, and UCBA has been a really strong advocate
for retailers.
CCIA, is that one?
CCIA, like I sit on the board of CCIA,
that's a state trade organization,
California Cannabis Industry Association.
I've been deeply involved with them
and they've also created a coalition of all of these groups
and meet frequently,
because obviously there's a lot of fantastic
local trade organizations, consumer trade organizations,
obviously Americans for Safe Access
and California Normal have been huge for patient advocacy.
But the big magic is how do we get all of these groups
working together and saying the same thing?
Because that's where you get that kind of force
on par with the work that's been done for years
for labor unions and even starting to work more
with those existing unions
in terms of labor and other areas,
where it's like, generally,
we're all kind of wanting much of the same things at core,
which is protections for smaller operators,
protections for workers, protections for social equity
and keeping that a priority,
because that's a lot of the reason this got pushed through
in Prop 64 was this idea of reinvestment
in impacted communities and making a place
both for the smaller operators,
but also for that social equity.
And I will say too, just that the operators,
the regulations were written by people
who didn't know anything about cannabis
and they're enforced by people
who don't know anything about cannabis, really.
Alcohol.
Yeah, it has always been the job of the industry itself
to educate both the legislators and the enforcement
and the consumers and ourselves.
It's really our job to be the people who are-
Is Lori still the head of the BCC or is someone, is it?
Yeah, Lori A. Jackson-
Are you friends with her?
I mean, we're not friends.
We don't have-
No.
Fair enough, not sad.
We all hang out.
It's ironic.
I actually live in the city where the BCC is headquartered
and I can't get a meeting with her.
So Chelsea, give us a local organization
that you think represents
the local Sacramento community well.
None.
Can I go with none?
You can go, yeah.
I don't think we have one.
I don't think we have,
I mean, I could be completely ignorant on this.
There's probably one of delivery services
that rings a bell.
There's probably one for distributors.
There's definitely not one for manufacturers.
And kind of as a whole,
the group that touts itself as representing the industry
really only represents nine specific retailers
and no one else.
So we don't really have one.
What group is that?
I really appreciate the work of the NCIA and the CCIA though.
What's the group that touts itself
as representing everyone?
The Sacramento Cannabis Industry Association.
It's from the, I don't know, we call them the SAC9,
but it's nine retailers all owned by the same people,
family.
It's connected to that Ukrainian guy who got arrested.
I don't know.
Okay.
It's weird.
All right.
On that note, we will call it a day.
I appreciated everyone.
And let me cut to,
this is what we have been tuned into,
Buzz on the Street with a bunch of operators,
data analysts and compliance experts.
So I appreciate it.
And with that, we will kill the live stream.
Thanks everyone.
All right.
Thanks for tuning in.
I'm your host, Chris.
I'll see you next time.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
