We are live.
We're going right now.
Hello everybody.
We are live and getting rolling here on the rooftop patio in Kelowna.
I am very excited to have some awesome people with us.
Dragonfly Earth 5 Medicine.
Dragonfly Earth Medicine and Marcus, BC Bubble Man.
We have an amazing day set up to come up and happen in this next little while.
So without any further ado, we will get the ball rolling.
We should have everybody rolling in shortly from Chad Westport all the way to Chris Guerrero,
Ryan, Peter.
Hopefully they'll show up at some point or another.
We have an awesome evening set up where we're going to go all the way to about 6.30.
Then we have an award ceremony happening here.
The AR Cannabis Awards.
Following that, we're going to go live and get into some live show by Catasonic later on this evening.
So I see Chad Westport rolling on into the room already.
Hello Chad.
Yes.
How you doing London?
Hey brother.
Check out this amazing group of people that I have right here.
Oh wow.
I can pop up.
Oh, let me see.
Oh, I fucked it up.
I already love that you're on a rooftop location.
Rooftop parties are rad because you can be loud and people below you don't know what's going on.
So many like rooftop rave parties back in the day.
Yeah, if it's a tall enough building, man, nobody below knows what's happening.
Exactly.
Do you guys want to turn your microphones on and give me a quick hello everybody?
Hello everybody.
What's happening family?
How are we coming through there audio wise, Chad?
Coming through good on my end.
You can hear Dragonfly Earth Meditation.
Should we be turning our microphones off?
Hot mic, hot mic.
When we're not talking?
I can turn you down if you're not using it, but they're pretty well set up.
Damn, that's a view.
I know, isn't it just gorgeous?
This is just absolutely awesome.
Beautiful place.
We are set up geared to go, so like a rooftop consumption lounge.
We've got everybody kind of chilling out, hanging out and having this smoke and getting rolling here, which will be a lot of fun.
We'll see everybody kind of roll into the room as we go.
How have you been so far, Chad?
What have you done?
What has been your excitiness going on?
I literally just jumped out of the room because I was producing Brian and Marco's show, which goes from one until four.
So we stopped off at four, and Brian's like, hey, man, I need the link.
So I was like, well, why don't I hop in there?
I can grab the link for you.
I shot it in the Insta.
Is it coming over?
Did it show up?
Oh, actually, I just logged on, so I just sent him the link.
OK, yeah, you got the link in here, 359.
Oh, yeah.
So now he's got the link.
Just in the nick of time, of course, right?
Just in the nick of time.
Of course.
So tell me about the event you've got situated here, London.
How did this come about?
This looks like a great group of people in a fantastic location.
Yeah, it is.
And what I'm going to do, actually, is I'm going to set it up and get rid of my ugly face.
Because we have, if you can see behind as well, I'm going to try and open this up a little bit.
But we have a full event going on.
Hello.
Good.
We have a full event going on.
Can you do me a favor, Leah?
Adjust that camera so it's pointing up a little bit.
I'll tell you when to stop.
So there's about 40 or 50 people at least joining us for a cannabis award.
There you go.
A little bit further down.
A little bit down.
For an award ceremony shortly.
Perfect.
At 6.30.
And then we've got Catatonic tonight.
And you're taking over for that one, eh, Chad?
Is that my?
Oh, you're muted, brother.
I just did it.
I've been on here for two minutes, and I already got my one spent.
But yeah, Catatonic tonight is coming up 7 p.m. on the West Coast, 10 on the East Coast.
They've got a new album coming out.
Nobody's heard it.
But tune in at 7 after the awards ceremony, and you get to hear the new album from Catatonic.
So excited for that.
And we've got in chat, where would the question go?
Joshish, are those seeds on the coffee table?
Holy cow, wouldn't that be great?
Yes.
Yes, they're all seeds on the coffee table.
Wow.
They're not all.
So we can't.
So we are in Canada, so we don't want to just throw a bunch of seeds down and get that rolling in that way.
It's not quite the best way to go about it, Canada, legality-wise.
So I do have some of our packs, some sample packs of the Cunning Folk down there.
But I also have our mixed cover crop blend, as well as Hakutei, which I actually wanted to have on Dagestor,
but we weren't able to pop it in, which was kind of a challenge.
Wow, that sounds like an awesome kind of way to do it.
And I love the just casual atmosphere of everything's going on, you know?
Got a lot of people up there right now.
Yes, it's definitely a lot of fun, and it will be a very good time.
So what have you been doing other than that?
Well, I like to wake up at about 11 o'clock in the afternoon.
11 o'clock in the afternoon?
Yes, I like to wake up at about 11 o'clock in the afternoon and take a shower.
Can I get the top off my Viagra bottle here?
Yes.
Just use your teeth.
And Marcus, do you want to say hello, Chad, to everybody?
Chad has hello to all of you.
Hello.
He's live. We're live. We've been going live for a little bit.
Say hello to all of you.
This is Bubble Man and the Dragonfly Earth Medicine crew
hanging out on the rooftop in Kelowna.
Hey, everyone. Nice to see you.
Happy 420.
Thanks so much, London, for getting this all together.
Future cannabis project.
Perfect.
I'm going to turn you up a little bit.
Yes.
What, no? Is that an offer?
Yes.
Are you offering? Yes.
I'm not going to say no to you.
I'm Mr. Boujee Bong.
You're Mr. Boujee Bong?
Yes.
I'm muted. Nice to meet you.
London, nice to meet you.
Nice to meet you, too.
Very, very cool.
Very nice to meet you.
She's right around me.
There you go. Awesome.
So, why don't you get in there, grab a microphone, and explain what's going on real quick.
Because you've got a cool bong there and some great people to chat with.
So, go on.
Well, thanks for the chat, everyone.
Thanks for having me in.
I'm Triple Bong.
I'm from Korea, a.k.a. I am Mr. Boujee Bong.
And this is my-
I think his mic just cut out, London.
Oh.
And style, because I curate vintage glass or ceramic.
There we go. Perfect.
And give them a nice-
I've got way more mics than I'm used to.
And make them into bongs.
Yeah. Solo his mic if you can.
This is a 1950s Flint decanter for whiskey.
Have a good time.
So, what era is this?
What are we looking at here?
Because it's really phenomenal.
I don't know if everybody can see what you're looking at,
but this is a really amazing piece here that Josh is toking on.
What era is it from?
This era is 1950s.
Yeah, then you could probably see the colors a little bit better
because it's a really phenomenal piece.
It almost looks like it's on fire.
Yeah, and this bowl is actually hand-blown by a guy in Victoria,
which is actually one of my friends.
His name is Raymond.
He goes by Val's Glass.
He does some of my custom bowls for pieces to match.
And he's a really good guy.
He's a really good guy.
He's a really good guy.
He's a really good guy.
He's a really good guy.
He's a really good guy.
He's a really good guy.
He's a really good guy.
He does some of my custom bowls for pieces to match.
As I use a lot of local glassblowers,
I have another couple pieces down below in the villa that have some
custom bowls on them which are actually pretty cool.
I like to still use the glass blowing
because I never lost the love of that art
because it's so amazing what those people do, glass blowing.
I agree.
This is made – I know that's not typically glassblowing
like what we're talking about, but it's still vintage glass.
vintage glass that's been blown and the fact you matched with the nowadays stuff with like
new blown glass.
Just like it's a happy, happy medium for me.
It's pretty cool.
Sure, why not?
While we're here, when in Kelowna.
Got some glazed cherries for you to puff on from the farm.
Nice one, the man's filling up, getting smoky.
To the dome.
It's fucking tasty.
Wow.
Nice one.
Thank you, sir.
Yeah, right on, brother.
Wow.
That's beautiful.
Oh my God.
I think I love the audio.
My Instagram, if you want to follow me on Instagram, it's Mr. Bougie Bong, which is
MR underscore B-O-U-J-E-E Bong.
So Mr. Bougie Bong.
And like I said, I'm out of Victoria, BC.
And if you're ever in the area, look me up.
I always like to joke.
Awesome.
Well, thank you.
Awesome.
Very, very good.
How are you doing there, Chad?
Amazing.
I love it.
I'm doing good, London.
Kind of bouncing out to get some lunch while these folks...
Anytime you can bring old...
Go for it.
You know, old world.
Yeah.
Then again, I got eight minutes till 420.
It's not a lost art.
It's like 1970s contemporary furniture and homes.
They're forever.
It's like, that's why I love the vintage because there's some pieces that are still a forever
piece.
It's not the way it is at that moment.
Amazing.
I love it.
Marcus, what's happening with you these days?
Like what's going on?
Tell us something good.
Like right this, like today, what's going on?
What's going on in general?
Working on so many cool things.
You're getting stuff out to the market now.
Yeah.
Man, brand is getting out there.
Yeah.
That's exciting.
Yep.
That's pretty cool.
After, you know, 20 plus years of teaching people how to make hash and turning them on
to all these tips and tricks and techniques to take what I've learned and create it and
curate it into my own brand by really connecting with great growers across Canada.
Because we have, like we've got, we've had growers from Quebec and Ontario and British
Columbia, Alberta, like send us flour that we've been able to process at Embark.
So I would say Embark is probably the biggest thing that I have going on right now that
I've been focused on and getting the brand out and creating novel products to turn people
that are just hash users or cannabis users, but don't have an experience with hash.
So it's like they smoke joints, but they don't have all the pipes and all the tools to, you
know, maybe smoke hash.
So we, we released this pure hash joint called the Hazel Stick and there's no paper, there's
no glue.
It's just a gram of hash rolled into a tube like a joint and it burns perfect.
It was very well received and it was a product that no one else in Canada was selling.
So it was kind of, you know, it's kind of the nice way as to, I always say here in Canada
with the way it's changed and I know lots of people like to kind of shit on the new
legal framework of cannabis because it's easy to do.
But I'll tell you, like you don't forget how it was when they kicked our doors down and
put guns in our faces and like took all of our property.
That was way worse.
Like it just was. And it was traumatic.
So it's like now it's like it's much better.
It's early, it's new.
It's going to take a while.
But like good people that are out there that are afraid to get involved in the legal
framework, like we need you to get involved in the legal framework.
And not everything comes out exactly like you want it, right?
Right. And civil disobedience doesn't have to end when you get a little sliver where
they give you a little piece for all your your civil disobedience.
So like, OK, that's a big piece, actually.
You're not going to overly jail people.
You're not like you're going to allow us to actually have business and commerce and, you
know, do all of these things.
That's that's pretty substantial.
But there's a long way to go still.
I recognize that.
But I'm just happy to be a part of it.
And I'm happy to be here at the BC Summit here, Cannabis Summit, and happy to be here
with the future cannabis project up on the rooftop on a beautiful day with my good
friends, Josh and Kelly from Dragonfly Earth Medicine.
It's a it's a fucking pretty good day.
It's like it must be 420 or something.
I think it's getting really close.
And, you know, Marcus, I think it's really great what you said.
You were saying, you know, that people coming into the market and if we're only
thinking about it as an industry, then we actually are forgetting about it as a plant.
And the more people that are coming into this industry and partaking in the cannabis
plant, then the more that we can really further education of nature, further education
of plant medicine, of health and well-being.
I really feel like if we can, you know, the more that we can get the plant through the
front door, the more we can give her her own voice is really going to help out this
planet Earth in so many different ways.
It's definitely essential.
We definitely need to like all of that.
Like I hear corporations talk about their culture and with cannabis, we already have a
culture. And if you preserve it, we stand with you.
And if you fuck with it, you are the enemy.
I really. Yeah, yeah.
And culture can go further than that.
The cannabis culture. And then we like to talk about what kind of a culture that the
cannabis likes to even be grown in, you know.
So when we talk about culture of cannabis, we're talking about the culture of cannabis
as far as humans are concerned, but also the culture of what how cannabis likes to be
grown, which is in soil and natural biology.
And it's a double entendre for sure.
It really is. I love that.
The entendre.
And the turps are showing up when you do that, you know what I mean?
And the and the slime and all the layers.
They make their special appearances.
People are like, wow, how do I get my hash to stick together like yours and melt?
Grow better cannabis.
And there's a whole cool amount of people out there that can show you all various
different ways as a hash maker of 30 years.
I gravitate towards that organic, living soil, but I also love the beyond
organics, the regenerative, the actually the part that makes it sustainable, because I've
met organic farmers that are not sustainable.
And so it's nice to that's what I'm attracted to you guys for.
You know, you've got the resin speaks for itself when you grow in that living soil and
you and you actually cultivate.
It's kind of like if you've ever read Michael Pollan's The Omnivore's Dilemma, he
introduces this chicken farmer named Joel Palatin.
And Joel is like he doesn't consider himself a chicken farmer at all.
He considers himself a grass farmer.
Polyphase Farms.
Yeah. He just grows.
Yeah, right on, dude. You too.
Peace out.
All right, well, we're still here.
We're on the rooftop. There's quite a bit of people here now.
I'd say there's like 100 or 200 people on the rooftop.
The lake is looking absolutely spectacular.
I don't know if there's a stream.
Are they able to watch this as well?
It's jumping. Two minute warning, everybody.
Two minute warning. West Coast.
I truly love you all, you know that.
That's a very good. I'm very excited.
The ashtray just got filled right now before 420.
I'm excited about that. My brother, I love you.
Is this a mic? OK, good.
So, you know, I love weed.
And I love all of you.
It's my first day.
It really is my first day.
Every day is my first day.
I'm blessed to be here with you all.
We are one minute away.
I'd like to introduce Tom and Ali from the Different Collective.
We have a quick announcement just before 420.
They are launching their website today.
A big moment.
They are educators, creators, influencers,
imaginative, creative, beautiful souls that I'm honoured to know.
And I love the work you do.
And these are important people.
So happy 420.
Shout out to Andrew.
Appreciate that it's 420.
So everyone who has a joint, you should start lighting it up.
I don't want to take any attention away from 420
because that's like the main reason why we all came together today.
And yeah, I just wanted to say that I'm really grateful
and really proud to be here right now.
But I also want to be vulnerable and let you know
that I'm also really nervous to be here right now
and talk in front of all of you guys here.
I'm super excited.
We launched our website today.
So please go and check out the differentcollective.com.
And yeah, Ali and me will give you a little rundown here
about what the Different Collective is all about.
I just give it over to you and we're going to put this back and forth.
Yeah.
Happy 420.
I'm probably a lot louder without this mic if I'm honest.
Happy 420.
Happy 420.
Appreciate the invite.
Happy 420.
Yeah.
Thank you, everybody, for being here.
We are so happy.
Shout out to our crew from TDC.
We love you guys so very much.
There's been a lot of hard work that's been put into content
creating and collaborating with the media people here.
So we just want to give a few shout outs and then we will be giving away
a lot of good things on the spot.
So get your stuff ready.
First of all, recognition of the Indigenous people of Kelowna
and Turtle Island.
Thank you so much for letting us have this event here.
The West Bank First Nations people, Moccasin Trails.
It's very important to me as a First Nations person.
So very, very big shout out to them.
At the TDC tent, you will be able to find a bunch of really cool stuff
like Blind Aroma Tasting, Digital Microscope Bar, BYOC,
Inspector Bud with Cannabis Sommeliers, Stolby Sisters.
There are two villas, 107 and 108.
There are activities, workshops, private things.
If you want to kind of have a break, go for a walk.
They're right next to the tennis courts.
You will see a massive U-Haul because we also have brought a full studio
for two podcasts to happen on site.
The Bougie Bong Lounge, actually three.
That's my mistake.
The Bougie Bong Lounge, Gros Street Journal and Sessions.
Sessions Our Life.
We have Sessions Our Life as well.
Shout out to Kiaro as well.
I have one more, two more, and then I'll hand it over back to Tom.
Adcan Budtenders Choice Awards are tonight.
We are announcing there are a bunch of amazing things and recognitions
that are much, much deserved to some fantastic growers
that have been picked from the cannabis community,
which is near and dear to our hearts today.
I need another joint.
Lastly, before I'm just going to give this to you.
Yeah, just give it to me.
Oh, I love you.
There you go.
Buckets, please.
Ashen them.
Put your not good things on the property.
Lastly, Anna, the Cannabinista flew all the way from Toronto to be here.
Huge thing for cannabis content creators is the struggle
that she has been dealing with and being deactivated while blowing up
and still following protocols for social media platforms.
So we love you, Anna.
Thank you for coming.
And I just also wanted to give you guys all a heads up
that the Differing Collective is also hosting morning yoga
and lunchtime meditation sessions.
I will be guiding the breathwork sessions and we have Rebecca Lovesness
who will be guiding the yoga sessions.
So please come in and attend.
Whereas, well, we have Weedpool and Dachi hosting those mindfulness sessions.
And quickly, before we start the conference off,
I just wanted to let you guys know what the Differing Collective is actually about.
So we're all cannabis content creators like Anna,
we mentioned already, Ali, myself, Dustin, James, Mr.
Bougie Bong, Andrew is a cannabis content creator, London Nero is over here.
Like I'm even surrounded right now by cannabis content creators.
And I'm so grateful.
Also, if you're wondering what's the weird accent, I'm Bavarian, actually.
I'm one of the Lederhosen guys, usually.
That's why I'm so grateful to be standing in front of all of you right now
and having my website launch today, because we should remember that 420 is about activism
and it's about pushing the regulations a little bit further to make things easier
for this industry.
And hopefully we're BC, right?
So we are the home of BC, but we're the masters of cannabis here.
That's what I learned as a German guy.
That's why I know so much, because I'm surrounded by the people that teach me all the stuff about weed.
And it's crazy.
And it's the cannabis content creator that gives all of these expertise to the consumers.
And that's why I think it's important to be here right now and to have the stakeholders involved
and have the government involved and have the content creators here
and all the people that are in this industry.
The drone is just distracting me a second, but it's pretty sick.
But to have all these people together to push forward for global legalization in cannabis
in Canada and around the world.
And that's why I also just wanted to say, because this is on camera right now.
Germany, it's time to legalize at home.
It's already legal here.
Everyone I'm looking at is having a great time.
Everyone smokes joints.
There are no problems at all.
So it's time to legalize.
Thanks for having me, guys.
Check out the website.
Check out the content creators, the websites.
Oh, if not, no.
AR Cannabis Award for tomorrow night.
Check out who may or may not have won by now, I believe.
Tom was a reporter for them.
He did fantastic work this year.
Shout out to Matt Chernoff, who's also a cannabis content creator.
And he's killing it with the AR Cannabis Cup.
Yeah.
OK.
Do you want to do the quick intro?
Yeah.
Should I say it?
Are you saying the things?
Whoever has.
Go live.
Whoever can show them a little bit of their cannabis.
OK, so the giveaway starts with a little test.
Whoever can show us a jar full of cannabis right now gets a giveaway thing.
Just come here.
Whoever has a jar of weed right now.
Bring a jar of weed.
Jar of diamonds.
That counts.
Yeah.
Got the giveaway.
Next person.
Ellie, what's up?
What do the people need to do?
That should be a cone loader.
Who can't?
I'm just filling accessories.
There's a little thing.
Show me your joint.
Someone bring me a joint.
No, who can't roll a joint?
Who can't roll a joint?
Comes up.
Whoever can't roll a joint, we have.
Where's James right now?
I have three.
Come get it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There you go.
Two more.
Who can't roll a joint?
Hell yeah.
We got three cones at our tent right down the patio.
Anything else for the Elderly?
I don't know.
There's a bunch of stuff.
Who's getting the biggest munchies?
Who has the munchies?
Anyone having munchies right now?
I got a bag of sour cream and onions too.
Who likes card games?
We have a new card game from Royalty Concentrates.
Anybody?
Okay.
Concentrate card game.
I feel like we should be doing like the wedding thing.
You know what I mean, Brian?
Like where wedding, you throw up behind you like a bouquet of flowers.
You know what I'm talking about?
To be honest, man, this is really cool to see kind of where you guys are at and how
you guys celebrate and stuff.
Yeah.
Here we go.
Background is beautiful.
Oh, isn't it gorgeous?
It's, it's, it's pretty awesome.
They're doing that last little bit here.
Let me see if I can switch the camera around a little bit.
Can you hear me?
All right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Seems like you have some heavy hitters over there.
Yeah, we do.
We've got, we've got Josh and Kelly from Dragonfly Earth, Maranison and Marcus BC
Bubble Man.
And there's lots of other people around.
So around, we're going to have lots of cool conversations and neat stuff happening.
It just, it's 420.
So things just got underway.
How are you doing, Brian?
How was your conversation earlier in your 420 show?
Oh, it was fantastic, man.
Again, we're just really trying to dive into a variety of people to kind of show
the, you know, the benefit of understanding how to make your own IMOs.
We have a variety of guests that have come on and kind of echoed for the, for the
most part, the same kind of thing.
And we've got a lot of people reaching out saying that they have the confidence
to now try to make their own IMO, which is exactly what we're after.
Sorry, what was that last part?
I just, somebody just cut me off there.
Oh, no problem.
It's live outside.
Just so that people can make their own IMOs.
That's what we're after.
People have been reaching out in the DMs to Marco and myself about having the
confidence to at least go out there and try and make their own stuff.
It's, it's tough, man.
And getting the confidence to do that for the first time.
I think there's a big level of like getting yourself to understand failure,
you know, and understand that failure isn't failure.
It's a lesson not learned.
It's a lesson learned.
You know what I mean?
In that, like you can make a mistake making an IMO and you can do it a whole
bunch of times, people that do it for years have, you know, miss, miss, what's
it called, miss inoculations where they don't get a perfect turnout, right?
So I think getting that patience and allowing yourself to fail once or twice
is fairly good.
Well, and learning from mentors.
It looks like, you know, again, you're having some heavy hitters on that
rooftop.
And that's where a lot of this information began is from people like Josh and
Kelly, putting out information, other individuals learning about it, sharing it
with individuals.
And now I think this has begun to be quite a little bit of a movement here where
most people understand, or at least have peaked their head into understanding that
microbial world might be where I want to farm cannabis thinking long term.
I think it is a long term thought plan.
So I'm going to ask them, what's your thought on long term propagation of
cannabis using indigenous microbes?
microbes is what it's all about.
But I believe that indigenous microbes actually need to come from your indigenous
zone.
So I, I think that we do a lot of conversations about when you're really
trying to propagate indigenous microorganisms, that means you're trying to
propagate the soil, which is the terroir of your area.
Just the area, the zone, the environment, to the secondary metabolites, which is
the cannabinoids and tapings.
Hey, London, if you can hear me, there's some like feedback.
Yeah, I don't think her mic is working.
It's just static and feedback.
Yeah, London, I think you got to check the, the
and I keep muting your mic because it's blowing our ears out.
I'm at stalker practice.
I'm at the house just finished up with Marco.
Super lit for 420, but this seems fun.
Virtually on a rooftop.
Is there any way we can mute their mic?
Yeah, well, I keep muting it and then someone.
Can you hear me?
Yeah, I can hear you.
Okay.
Can you guys hear me all right right now?
Can you guys hear me?
Okay, we can hear you.
Yes, now you can hear the mic.
Okay, you can see me now.
I'm going to kick from studio, kick this guest, kick a couple of these guests out, maybe remove
a camera.
We will remove that camera and then we will throw on, let's try that.
I'm going to kick.
I'm going to kick.
I'm going to kick.
I'm going to kick.
I'm going to kick.
That camera.
And then we will throw on.
Let's try that audio back on again.
Are we doing it?
We're okay.
That sounds good.
We're clean.
Okay, cool.
Have them talking to the mic.
Give me a quick check.
Are you on still?
I don't hear them right now.
I don't hear them at all.
I'm sorry
Well
Yes, sorry that that one
It was all good until you showed up Peter
Howie
I don't hear them talking very well
On the audio side
Yeah, can you hear me can you hear me there?
yeah, but I can't tell if that's the other microphone that you've been talking through or the
Now I don't hear anything
Love when I'm super high at a kid's soccer game and we're trying to troubleshoot audio issues
I can't get away from audio issues
Hey soccer is a great sport for kids
It's
Yeah, usually I smoke on the way over and I just kick back and it's always this field this field
I don't know if you can see the
It's like all
There's a lot of dirt exposed dirt, it's like a desert
And there's Jim
Superstar out there you too
And everybody else I can't see right now I can't tell that's
There is quite the glare in LA at 435 in the afternoon so London none of you can hear us
Hopefully the cataclysmic performance
I can hear you guys fine, but my microphones don't seem to be coming in and out here for a second
So I'm just gonna pop this in and out of the studio and reopen it on this channel. Okay, I'll be right back
Well, the the other thing is did you like pull?
cables from like the XLR cable out of the mic and push it back in and like no not that I know of
But it could happen. It wouldn't be surprising. No, I was gonna say good check check all like the cables
like from the
Mic to the cable the cable to the soundboard
Yeah, well the soundboard isn't even going to the thing right now. So that's that's the main issue is that I'm having here
So I'm gonna try coming in and out and I'll be right back
This is where we need Chris Guerrero's unparalleled talking skills
And then let's go this back in
I hear that coming through now
It's football yes
We'll get Gemma's little soccer ball
Check check check check check
So
Is that you talking into the microphone or is that you talking that's me just checking it on the other side
Making sure that it's coming through
There you go, that's it enter studio
At stream, can you hear me now?
Loud and clear
We're back
There we go, we are back
That sounds good
Vocal Peter says he's very you can just like harmonically talking to the microphone and just say whatever you like
Give thanks
But so do we want to start again go back to the indigenous microbes long-term
Yeah, and are we talking about in British Columbia or just anywhere just that I was well, we're in BC
Let's talk about it. And I think I think here is where we actually need a lot of work to be done
Don't we that's good. And I mean an indigenous, you know, just like using the the microbes and the land
From where you live, you know, that's the whole entire
Story that's told on wine bottles is the terroir and the Appalachian where it's from and we are part of this
cannabis summit is to bring together farmers to stand up for
Craft and small farmers who are growing in a lot of cases
Long term under the Sun and they should be using indigenous
microorganisms to do that and the way that you know, we always
recommend doing that is by
Mulching and
Using biomass from your land that you planted and using that closed-loop
Environment creating atmosphere to grow plants under
when people say indigenous microorganisms in some cases they talk about natural farming and then there's like
specific ways
to collect IMOs and we don't we don't ever use rice for collecting IMOs because we just really
identify with the self-reliant bio regional farming and since rice
Organisms that live here because it's not indigenous
We take grasses wild grasses
wood chips
branch tips and
and
In the in the past years harvest and we layer and do mulch and that's the way that we use our whole entire garden
as an indigenous microorganism
Bank, it's a bank of
Organisms and then in the spring we remount all of it and grow the ganja out of it and then it's just this
totally complex
Deep living soil connected to the earth long-term plants growing out of the earth and we might even
grabs
Just a very small amount maybe even just a couple of tablespoons of some soil from some really pristine
Area or zone that you might connect with on a really deep level or something that you know
Next to like a river or a brook or something that's growing really healthy and beautiful
You can take just a little bit because there's infinite possibilities in that soil
So if you take that little teeny tiny handful or scoop of soil
Back to the beds that you're creating that Josh was just mentioning about layering all of your indigenous
really fodder for this microorganisms and then you're able to take that
Sort of inoculant and plant it inside of there
It's really going to take off and then you have infinite possibilities of what can be created as far as
indigenous microorganisms and health and well-being
And we also recommend doing that in indoor environments, which usually doesn't a long term
So, but there is a lot of more living soil
Organic and regenerative style growing going on in British Columbia, and we've already seen some really good resin here tonight
And it's really it's really beautiful to see
LPs and and micros, you know growing more living soils and using indigenous micro
You know organisms in that soil
It puts a smile on my face as a hash maker exactly because I don't want to say that well that
The resin just does not seem to perform from my perspective
Any better than when it's been given this more complex system?
That's you know, obviously a part of the success of whatever plant however, whatever it's expressing
If it gets access to those things and you know, these relationships with fungi and micro rhizospheres
These are very important plant, you know fungi relationships that allow the plant to express terpenes and other volatile
Compounds that I just don't see
When they're grown like with salts
You know
You can push the plant in different ways, you know and chemical grows, but it doesn't have
Always that fullness that you know that you can find that's different. Yeah, but to each their own
That's why everything is available. I as a hash maker
I mean one of the reasons I came to this event was really to meet as many farmers as possible and to help
collaborate with the brand bubble man brand and
Whatever farm whether it's you know, Dunn cannabis or rosebud farms or backcountry or McIntyre. There's all these cool
Farms that are you know growing organically and have like I mean McIntyre Creek is insane
I don't know if you guys have seen their stuff. We haven't been there yet
They do the fresh frozen like flash freezing it right on the field they have incredible SOPs
I watched the movie of the little video they have on their website and it brought a tear to my eye as a hash maker
I was like this is incredible like right on the field
The plant is getting like back sealed liquid nitrogen sealed like flash frozen to minus 40 degrees, right?
It was incredible
Rosebud's doing some pretty awesome stuff with with right out of the field to
His Sarah secret is like on point
I want to do a collaboration with with Che and we've been talking about that for for a while
It's it's not as easy in in the from like black market days where you could just do whatever you want whenever you want now
there's like an enormous amount of
Regulation and it kind of it's like a it's almost like a chess match and the regulations are moving
Players around the board and because of it there they create obstacles and they create these sort of
Magical little pockets of profitability that you need to find yourself to it's definitely different
But my love of cannabis, I'm not I'm not gonna stop anytime soon. I appreciate being able to operate
legally and you got to love humans for
Creating standards that even humans can't jump through
You know, it's like we continue to just create more and more standards that you know, here's another hoop
Whoa, too small for a human but the humans created it
Well, hopefully we are able to create a new license, you know, and then another license here in British Columbia, which will
represent more of the
We're talking about it's been hard for the family farm or the legacy farm here in British Columbia
To express itself in the same way like in California or in America and in a lot of states
You know, it's about your farm and who you are and up here. It's been
disassociated through
Distribution and stuff like that and licensed producers. So that's fine. That's a model it can work
There's ways to get in it. It's nice if we can create a new
license that would be more falling in line with
Tourism and you know
ecological growing and feel like those changes will be easier than the change of it being
Illegal to making it legal. I feel like that change was so big that everything we have from here on out is like fine-tuning
Especially if they're not like, you know actively taking our children away and and caging us and
Finding us and closing our businesses down
Mission trip was a scary vibe. Yeah, and I really think when we're talking about you know, this kind of new licensure
I think that we can talk outside of BC we can talk outside of Canada
We can talk outside of any known even country and I think what we need to do is start forming international
alliances that are underneath
certifications that are grown for
ecological benefits that are grown for
Medicinal benefits that can be used more in research and development because what we do
Understand and know is that a lot of research and development and a lot of the data that is had in cannabis right now
Is about indoor it's about salt grown and what we need is we need to have more terroir more
regions more international zone
Regional regionals that growing that involve multi all around the globe of
growing possibilities so that we can look at the plant for its
multidiverse
Multifractional and you know all of it would be an incredible tasks on the definition of terroir
Because never what has a plant been more cultivated in more places around the world if legally people could just cultivate it and really
You know use their own terroir as
The means to get that plant to express itself
So when you have like I would always tell my Jamaican partners and friends this that I would tell them listen
Nobody, they're like they're gonna come and take it man. They're gonna come and take it from us. I'm like listen nobody can take it
It's Jamaican. You can't just like grow Jamaican in Barbados. That's Barbados weed. That's not Jamaican or the
Aloha it's
It's here. You have to make it here grow it here
And then it's that then it's yours and you can send it out to wherever you and that's the beauty of it being a master
Plant and the fact that it's an adaptogen
so we
Adaptogen for our own human body and for the medicinal attributes
But a lot of times we don't have the conversations about what type of adaptogen it is to where it's grown
So if you're growing it in an indoor area you're really working on your NPK
You've got your salts and you've got that dialed. Well, it's going to become an adaptogen to that type of environment
It's going to become an adaptogen to that type of synthetic nutrient feeding
So you really have to wonder like if you're looking for a healthy medicine and what type of adaptogen it's going to give you
And if it's up taking from a healthy environment, then it's up taking those
Adaptogenic qualities from that zone an area which then becomes healing attributes
Not only to the people around you, but how awesome it is to get like a loha Hawaiian flower
To smoke it straight from Hawaii. It really does give you that aloha vibe, you know
And and the BC bud that's grown here in in our beautiful environment and grown in deep soil
Smells and tastes like gorgeous BC
Did we lose the mic I
Saw him dropping like somebody was walking towards them or something. Was that a mic drop moment? They're like
Yeah, I'm just getting it set up
I
Don't go out to be leaders
They go out because there's a cause
Because there's something that will develop and push them
It's about the opportunity in the role
That you play and what you believe in for yourself
I think this plant affords us that and I think we're all developing amazing narratives
And so I wanted to bring together we were very blessed Mike Fungergy here an amazing storyteller I was blown away
Thank you
I just met him and I really appreciate it. Love what you do
I want to I have a son a seven-year-old boy named fender and I want him to be a story
And really be magical
But I am a storyteller I tell traditional stories from around the world and I've got a story from ancient Egypt
That if you wish to hear you'll probably not hear this story anywhere else
However, I can't
Everyone so ask if you do want to hear
Perfect place to let your imagination run wild
So if you do want to hear it
I'll ask you to sort of come on in and come close or even if you want to sit on the ground or whatever
We'll make it us, you know storytelling. It's usually done more a circle anyway
If you don't have the patience to hear it, I'm not insulted
You don't have to stay
I'll do my best to project for those who are here. You can't hear me though. Do please do come on in
I
Can tell the story of this area and if you can hear me back there great if not
All right, so this is an old tale from ancient Egypt
Once upon a time a
long time ago
Along the banks of the Nile River in the time of the Pharaohs
there lived a
princess
Now this princess and everything a princess could possibly want she lived in a big
Palace of all sorts of servants and maids and a big garden with fruit trees
Everything she could possibly want the princess
however
Was not happy
You see she was able to live a life of luxury
Because her father was none other
But he was known to be a cruel and vain man and her brothers and sisters
They would fight over who owned what gold object and he would take
The princess
She didn't care about wealth or power all she wanted
To love her for who she really was and not some
But she loved her mother very much, but her mother passed away, which is just a young girl, so she felt all alone
And so one day
She was a little bit older
She decided to leave the palace
Forever
She got a couple of her most trusted servants and under the cover of darkness. They set sail on a barge
And they traveled and traveled and traveled they traveled until they were far out of the reaches of the palace
They traveled until they finally found a small island in the middle of the Nile
They got off their boats and they started building they built little houses
And the princess was happy living this life
well
for some time
If you see this island was so remote
That nobody would ever come visit
And all the princess wanted was to meet somebody some meet somebody who would love her for who she was
But nobody ever came
But still she found pleasure
And her favorite her favorite of all was every day when the Sun was at its peak
She would go and swim
And after she'd get out and she'd sunbathe on a big flat rock
And as she lay there in the Sun it made her happy
Little did the princess realize though
that someone
Rather I should say
Something was watching
Or often the reeds
With only their eyes and nose
Was a rather big
actually rather
Actually rather enormous
Hippopotamus
Every day to watch the princess and every day that he saw her he felt more and more in love I
Know right a hippo falling in love with a princess crazy, right?
Well, nobody thought it was as crazy as the hippo himself. He knew this
He was a good-looking hippo he could have had
But
He couldn't help it he wanted the princess he loved her but
She was a princess
He was a
huge hippo
What could he do?
Well one day
One day the hippo was there in the reeds when a couple of herons came and landed nearby
They didn't see the hippo. They were fishing and they were talking amongst each other. Have you heard about the magician?
No, what magician? Oh the magician that lives past the third waterfall
He can grant any wish he can turn anyone into anything any animal into any other animal
He perked up a magician that could change
Animals into other creatures. Well, maybe he can be transformed into a human into someone that the princess loved
We swam to get closer to hear more
But he stirred up the waters
But it didn't matter the hippo knew
Out there. There was a magician who maybe could transform him into a prince
Now the third waterfall you have to understand was very very far. This was far for a barge
It was extremely far
But
He was in love
And so he decided to do it and so he began his journey
And he traveled day after day week after week
Months and seasons came and went and he passed the first waterfall. He passed the second waterfall and finally
When he got past the third waterfall he saw an opening to a little cave
He went ahead behind a rock not sure
and he watched
And he saw
As a zebra went into the cave and not too long later a butterfly
Knew he had found the right spot
So with trepidation he went and he entered the cave
Cramped and dark, but he saw at the very end of the cave by candlelight was an old man sitting cross-legged
Looking down he was sewing
Now
Didn't look up the hippo went in
The old man
Yes, yes, I saw you there I saw you know, what is it what do you want?
What you see is just that there's there's this princess and you know, I've come such a long way yes
Yes, they've all come a long way. No, what is it? What do you want?
Well, I was hoping you could change me into a prince into someone that the princess will love
No, no can't do it can't change animals into humans humans into animals too messy can't be done
Hearing this the hippo was so sad you come all this way
Wasn't going to help them barely even hear him out big giant
Start to roll down his cheek and fall and splash against the cave floor
Not this
Magician softened a little bit
All right. All right. It's true. I can't turn you
Well, maybe I can turn you to some thing
People was confused something
I don't know. Let's see. She she is a princess. Maybe I could turn you into gold
This princess doesn't want gold if she wanted gold
Very well, very well good point. Well, let's see. What do she is a woman? What do women like makeup? How about I turn you to Malachite?
To be ground up and turned it to me. No
This princess she's beautiful just the way she is
Okay, okay. How she is human humans like food. How about I turn you into a nice chocolate cake?
Why I've given you three suggestions, what do you want?
I like I like my shape. I'm just too big
I'd like to be smaller
I will turn you into a blue
Now faience is a type of clay
Go to an old Museum of pottery
Now the hippo hummed a little bit
That you like I don't know
What is it well, it's just that I mean how I even get her oh you leave that to me
There's a merchant coming tomorrow. I'm bringing it to her
What is it well, what if what if she doesn't like me oh, then you can use your wish wish
Everybody who comes to see me gets one wish and you can use it or anything you want
But you might want to hold on to it just in case you decide to change back into your hippo form
So the hippo thought well
And he agreed
And the magician began waving his hands
Saying strange words
The cave that it seemed so cramped started to get larger and larger and larger until the hippo was no more than a small little
clay statue
Magician came and wrapped him in a cloth and the next day gave him to a merchant
When the merchants arrived at the island of the princess and showed her
The princess was so excited oh, I must have it how much for you princess it's a gift
From that day forward wherever the princess went she brought that little
But she went and swam in the waters the hippo would sit on the rock
Watching her when she had meals it would sit on the edge of her plate watching her
But to the little hippo it was the night
Before going to bed the princess would sit there with the hippo in her palm, but she talked
She told him stories about her mother
Before going to bed
Before blowing out the candle and going to bed and it made the hippo
So happy that if he did have a beating heart it would have swelled
But you know how it is
With things, objects, possessions
As exciting as they are at the start
We tend to lose interest after a while
And that was very much the case
With time the princess started forgetting about the little hippo
She would leave him sometimes days at a time before picking him up and days turned to weeks
And eventually months and the hippo sat there waiting hoping that she would pick him up, but she didn't
And the hippo began to think
Maybe this was a mistake
Maybe it was a mistake to think that the princess was in love with him
And maybe I should go back to being a hippo, maybe I should use that wish
After all I'm still a good-looking hippo, I can still get a lady hippo, I have a few baby hippos of my own
And so he decided that night, that night he would use his wish and become a hippo once again
And that evening
The princess came into her room and for the first time in months
She picked up the little hippo and the hippo could see that there was tears in her eyes
She said, oh little hippo, you're so lucky you're just made of clay and fables
So lucky that you don't have a real heart for if you did like mine
Your heart would be breaking. For all I have ever wanted is somebody to love me, love me for who I am on the inside
Is that so much to ask?
And she kissed the little hippo and put him down
And all that night the hippo stood there
awake
Thinking, thinking about what the princess had said
And as the first sun was rising the hippo decided to use his wish
And he said I wish, I wish
That a handsome, righteous, noble man would come
That he would fall in love with the princess and that she would fall in love with him
Wouldn't you know it, that very next day
For the first time in a long time a ship arrived and off stepped a man who was handsome, noble and righteous
And he saw the princess and she saw him and they fell in love and the princess was happy
But as for our little hippo
It's sad to say that he went from bad to worse
For the hippo got moved from the night table to a bookshelf of forgotten items to sit and collect dust
And there he stayed until one day a cleaning lady came by and she knocked the hippo and he fell off the bookshelf
Fell to the ground and when he hit the ground he shattered into a thousand pieces
And for the little hippo everything went dark
And when the hippo came to he heard laughing
Ho ho ho ho ho ho little hippo
With a familiar voice
Just one more piece there we go the hippo could see it was the magician
And he was in the magician's cave and the magician had a big smile on his face
The little hippo, little hippo
I must tell you something
You have really amazed me because of all the wishes I've ever given out all the thousands of wishes
You are the first to use it to make somebody else
It's so little hippo for that
For that I'm going to make your wish come true
Because what I told you
Animals into humans or humans into animals was not entirely true
I can I can do it, but that animal must show
true human qualities true generosity true nobility and that you have done and so
Close your eyes little hippo, and I will make your wish
And the hippo closed his eyes and he heard the magician saying weird words
He didn't understand it
Everything went dark and then suddenly
He could feel himself being held he opened his eyes and there
He was looking directly into the eyes of the princess
She had a big smile on her face
And the hippo could feel himself
Being gently rocked back and forth and the princess said
What a beautiful little baby boy
And the little hippo smiled for indeed the princess now loved him more than anything else
Hello hello, hey you guys wanted me you guys know Nicole Heinz
You guys Nicole Nicole Nicole
Have you guys met Nicole before
She is one of the best chefs. I've met when it comes to infused dining. She's Afro Caribbean
Awesome
Man's hash while they talk about Peter has specifically requested that people smoke your hash
Well people talk
Peter has requested that everybody smokes your hash. Well, we talk I
Know I'm just relaying words. I'm sorry
What our hat our hat?
Just to start
That's a pretty view I think it's is it on
Yes, I
Am just saying Kelowna. Hello, you know, it isn't pretty
I've only driven through before and now I'm I am originally from Toronto
Spent 13 and and some I lived in some other parts of Ontario
but spend 13 years because that's the integral part of my life in Calgary, Alberta and
Then now I'm in Vancouver and living that life
Wow look at that
What was the first time you made
Ganja food. Oh
My very first it was a friend of mine in Calgary. Actually. She gave me some infused butter and I
made a fettuccine with
Mushrooms and parsley and parmesan, please tell us what kind of mushrooms. Yeah
It was just it was not a magic situation it was just a portobello at that particular
Oh, yeah, it was a portobello at that time. Yeah, I
Love mushrooms actually like yeah, I forage them in and around my house in Lions Bay
Well, I am actually studying herbal medicine now just to kind of expand
My business to talk about all the herbs cannabis is my favorite, of course, but you know
One of the masters absolutely, but I feel like people um, you know, they're still afraid of it
So I'm trying to normalize the use of the plant through food. My background is Jamaican. So I do a lot of Jamaican fusion
I do a nice jerk chicken infused. I do chutneys infused
salad dressings, of course smoothies
always
ginger tea I did a
Jamaican carrot juice nice infused
Tonics or anything like that? Yeah, I can root on
Herbal medicine
Bring that into the blood purification
Going to Jamaica June 3rd, June 30th me
Yeah, so I'm gonna spend some time out there and we're getting ready to speak at the Canadian herbal conference on bank
and also the
Vancouver Island herbal conference
When is that tell me on Vancouver Island, yep Canadian herbal conference on Vancouver Island
That's gonna be June 10th through 12th
And it is a gorgeous piece of land and it is sort of like the gem of herbalism for all of Canada
Yeah, and we're really excited
Wild crafting to preparation
That might be something you might see me there and I believe there will be a psychedelic
Talk there as well. Well, I believe that's what we're gonna be talking about. We're gonna be talking about
psychedelic master plants and how to utilize them and the importance of you know, if we're gonna be
eating
These plants these master plants
We're talking about cannabis in particular right now. We want to make sure that we're getting it from a good source
We want to make sure that it's organic you want to you know
When you when you're a top chef and you're gonna be bringing somebody some gorgeous dish
You want all of the ingredients to be just absolutely?
Impeccable and coming from gorgeous soil, which makes it more delicious
Absolutely, because I do view cannabis as a her. I mean I view her in so many different ways. She is
She's like the cauliflower of the herbs. You know what? I mean? She's so like multi-faceted, right?
So for me like I when I'm cooking with her she is that herb
So I do want it to be the best grown in the best, you know best practices
And just great turkeys because I like to incorporate
recipes with
and I love Marcus's, you know been a huge influence on hemp in Canada and
Continuing to to keep hemp oil and hemp seeds raw hemp seeds in the diet as well
As
Focusing in with high-end terpenes on killer five-star, you know dinners and stuff
But just that that nutrition values
Tip I always gave chefs that wanted to cook with terpenes when I had Blue River Extracts Canada
Was that they're so volatile that you don't want to expose them to heat and so like for instance one was a chocolatier
And she wanted to have terpenes and her chocolate little balls that went in these little boxes and they had little messages and I was like
Don't put the terpenes in the chocolate because the heating of it will change them into different terpenes
but if you put it in like a
almost like a sheet of acid that you would dip liquid into that perforated paper and put that inside the
Container and then put the chocolate down when you open it you get the full actual plant body
Those those volatile compounds the way they smell in the plant without any degradation from like heat
And you even end up tasting them as well
And the one girl the one chocolatier girl was like this was like a major tip
I was like because it's hard like a glaze with cannabis in my opinion like the way
For us to cook with it is to cook with you know
Cannabinoids, you know almost void of terpenes because the terpenes if you heat them
They create some strange flavors that are uncontrollable, you know, like once they're heating up they're doing chemistry
You know
The fact that I have the Caribbean background and I cook
That's kind of my main palette where the Caribbean
So the flavors of the allspice and nutmeg and cinnamons
They really go well with cannabis. And so I make chutneys for instance and sometimes it's on a slow low
Cook for hours, but then it just messes with those flavors
So well now if I was doing like fine dining and doing so many different types of flavors
I don't know if it always works in the same way. It's a tricky one for sure
I work with it. I don't know those flavors. It sounds like the right idea. Oh my gosh. I do too. I do a
Apple pear with dried cranberries in the winter and some ginger and then in the summertime I do pineapple
mango with ginger
And you just getting my business part for you, please
I
Need some chutney
I like to give it I like to give it to my diehard friends always cuz I infused with a lot see I
And I don't always sometimes I infuse with flour, but sometimes I'm infused with rosin chips
Yeah, cuz I have a lot of
Rosin friends in my life. So so basically I give I gave it to like a diehard friend and he says to me
He's like Nicole. What did you put in this? I was like, what are you talking about? Like the rosin chips, whatever
He's like I've been high for two days. I said, well, how much did you have? He ate the whole jar?
I was like, it's not it's like a jam. It's not he's like it's so good
It is really quite something that there is, you know some level of responsibility that it's like listen eat as much as you want
Yeah, you know, it's not you can't you can't die from this but you can definitely convince yourself that you are dying from this
And if you're gonna do that
Some people around you they can talk you off the ledge. I'm going to the hospital
It's like oh the worst place to go when you're super high
Experiments on you. Oh, we got another one
But yeah, I know I will hook you up with some chutney. It's one of my favorite. Oh my goodness
That would be amazing. Jamaica's my all-time favorite island in the Caribbean. I've been going there since 95
I got married there actually in 95 with my wife
Had a business there and just lots of great friends and family and people that are in Jamaica that
shout out to
To the to the island for me. I'm going there on June 30th for
Ganja summit I'm gonna do like some cooking with ganja demos and yeah, it's gonna be in
In the grill. Oh in the grill. Yeah a place to happen
I wonder if Carlene is a part of that and this is with Omari with ganja vest
Ganja vest. Yeah
Yeah with M. Omari
yeah, yeah Carlene does the
Stepping high festival. Okay in the grill. They've been doing it for a long time
Yeah
So it's been a while since I've been and so I'm gonna do the grill and then I'm gonna go see my aunt in
Kingston
I've done that drive many many times. In fact, I did that drive so many times that I finally was like
I set up a GoPro and I filmed me doing the drive like with my arm out the window like going so close to the cliffs
Just like this far away and I put it on YouTube and people were like, you're like, holy shit. I had no idea
That was the drive from Negril to Kingston. I'm not so fucking I'm flying rolling through Spanish town
I am honey, honey
Lying I I really enjoyed the ride. It's it's a it's unique and it's different and it's
It's adventurous. Yeah. Yeah, it is
I'm gonna take my adventure in other ways, you know, listen, I've done the flight enough as well
You know that that we had we had the
Nice things
Having a person looking at the maps to tell you when a super
Sharp turn was coming up. So you're kind of had a little bit of heads up. Yeah
Rolling
There
Absolutely not it's not gonna tell you nothing
And the bus driver will just be like going like a hundo
There's some exciting things going on in st. Thomas as well and
You know, there's some pretty amazing things happening down there with clinics and plant medicine. Okay, because
I'm a st. Vincent. Sorry Vincent
And I spoke with a woman who did do a lot of work
No, no
It will come to me I think Vincent is very open right now to plant medicine and they're really open to working with patients
and doing clinical research and clinical
diagnosis and
trials and dosage
So it's really exciting about the possibility of even what the United Nations is
extending to st. Vincent
Or, you know psychedelic research
Yeah with plant medicine, which is about time
Well, this is
So my business is called faded
Excellent. Basically, I started to normalize adult cannabis use right food conversation events, but
There's just so much stigma still and it's just like sometimes really hard to penetrate
Like sometimes really hard to penetrate so then I thought expand into herbal medicine because people are not afraid of
Herbs, they're not afraid of lavender
Well cannabis is a gateway cannabis is absolutely a gateway herb to all of herbalism
I agree. It's a gateway drug to all of the rest of the psychedelic medicine
world
Yeah, and that's why it's so important that we continue to dress her up and give her good verbiage and give her
You know a language that is understood by all humans. And I think through
food and
Through cultural food that I believe is just really
Honing in on what cannabis wants us to do with her
Yes, and I would love for you to talk a little bit about that like, you know
bringing Jamaica in to the conversation and then
Cooking and then you know all of a lot of the spices that you were mentioning, you know
We're really talking about a cultural experience
Absolutely. Tell us a little bit about that
So one it's it's not just the fact that my parents are Jamaican that I brought the culture into this
I had a food business before
When I lived in Calgary and it was called wings and tings and at that point
Yeah, and that was I know I love to throw it out there because it was a good time
Let me tell you wings and tings is great
I have like eight nine flavors of like jerk wings like from honey jerk
Sweet chili jerk maple syrup jerk like hickory smoke jerk all of the tings. Okay
handmade patties
Salads all of that and the reason why I started it in Calgary was I wanted to normalize
Jamaican food because culturally there are other cultures that their food has become normalized
East Indian food has become normalized
Japanese food has become
Right there, but well actually in Alberta, there's tons. Oh, yeah, I was doing the Calgary Reggae Fest
I was like hired to
Cater for the green room. Do you know how hard it is to please Jamaicans and I did
They hired me again, and then they hired me again and I was like, sorry guys. I'm going to Vancouver
I'm out but my whole goal at that time was to normalize Caribbean food like make it normal right and make it like
As palatable as anything else, right?
And then and so guess where I started in an indoor farmers market where the clientele was 95%
White and they loved it and they learned so because the first they were like, I don't know about spicy food and then
Yeah
They don't that's what they told me no, honestly, they did they the beauty about
Farmers markets is it on now?
They would hang out on my boots and sit on a stool and talk
Right, so I kind of created a vibe of being like a little you know off of a beach a little hideoff. Yeah
I
Did you know what we were trying to do that?
But let me tell you what happened an accident change things right an accident change things and then it was shortly before legalization
And I became a medical cannabis patient and then decided to combine the two
And so the reason why now I also bring in that Jamaican is from that former business because I wanted to normalize
our cultural food on top of
You do you know the women from just natural in Negril at the end?
You should really go there. I've known these women for like 30 years. Yeah, they're amazing
They've had this restaurant on their family's property and it's all like it's you I think you'll really dig them
They will dig you as well
No, but that's the reason why and so on top of that too
The flavors that I use it actually works so nice with cannabis in
Many other dinner parties I've been to they use this lit. Thank you. So
Can I tell you? Yes
Merci beaucoup
Much love and blessings. Thank you. So kindly
I
Forgot what I was saying
Well, I know the flavors of just so I went to other dinner parties and they would use distillate
Which was kind of flavorless and this totally so then you know, you're not you're just kind of like
How do you know how things work?
Whereas with me like I'm using the plant like I am either using from the rosenputz, which is really
Beautiful high as well a rosen
Edible, and you're not using rosen itself. You're using rosen from the chips
Yeah, that's that's that makes sense because at that point most of the volatile compounds in that rosin will be gone
It'll be cannabinoid rosin, but just just a light amount of volatiles that don't affect the flavor, right?
So it's beautiful and you can add more
Right, and so yeah, it is it's not even it's it's the actual high to you
It's the fact that everybody has said they have woken up feeling the freshest. They had the best sleep ever
And this is from the medicated chutney. I love that. So we'll be trying later. When are we trying that again?
I'll go to the grocery store right now. You just let me know
Like
Absolutely, and then in future as well
But yeah, the Chinese where it's at and I just love it that you can feel the medicine of the cannabis
Settle into the environment and then it really is the food and the flavors that can guide you down
Those cultural roads, you know, there's nothing to touch
different cultures more than like food and
Most of my cooking is savory
Like the Chinese the sweetest
Yeah, like so I'm doing like I'm not a pastry person like the person who if I do a dinner party
I usually hire a pastry person or I do something light where it's like a fruit and
Sort of like I've made some like, you know vegan coconut ice cream and then do some like fruit, you know
drizzled with like
Infused sugar and then just do that make some honey like drizzle that on and then that's it
You're good to go. But that's what I do savory
So even when I do like a rice and peas, I'll add a little bit of infused olive oil
Just layer
Just layer it
You know, it's like you don't even need to infuse the dessert because people are so stoked
For the dessert
They're gonna you know taste every single bit of that
Yeah, because I want people to we smoke in between so I actually it's a low THC dinner
I do CBD and all dinner should be low to see dinner because we want to enjoy it
You can and then leaving, you know doing your olive oil doing your coolies
Having those the infused things that you can add or less up to the meal
It's also a good idea because some people are just you know, they're like, oh I have to have a very little bit and other people
That's why do dressing like dinners. I'll do dressing chutneys
Gravies medicated gravy
I'm doing like a
A
Like a pineapple relish. I'm doing this dinner party next month on me in Duncan BC
at High Point Ranch, so it's a
Fated feast and camping experience May 28th and 29. Where's that Duncan BC at High Point Ranch?
That sounds amazing. If you need material for that
faded living calm
Faded living calm you can find out
Now or you can buy tickets only because you know island people who don't whatever but it's a beautiful property
No, this is gonna be my first time like actually venturing out because it's a friend of mine
Right. I'm like just getting my feet wet
We will
We shall I'm here for it
But yeah, yeah. Yeah. No, I just went up there. I was just there last week
It's a friend of mine and there's also they're also a weed farm too
So you get to see all of them they've done music festivals there it is like
Chutneys or any like no native like yeah local
They would bring it down
Always but I haven't now I'm gonna like get with it
I feel revived. You know what I mean this summer. I feel like I'll get creative with way more stuff
But no, I will I will I'm
Yeah, definitely feels good
You know some events together we've done some we have like a series that we've done yeah
And the time so we film this is London in the background so everybody can't see me
So we film like a five part series and like I was going into last summer
And my wife was like six months pregnant when we decided to do this, right?
So we said all the time goes and they'll everything down. It's all film except what we didn't do our last episode
Which is but then my baby popped out like a month earlier
Then that happened
You have all the content footage is just being put up put together and we'll drop it all but I'm just saying that's why he's so
Awesome, because we've done really great work
And he's an amazing chef, too
Well, you know we have a child
25 year old kids and they just had a child. So now we had our grandchild on our land
Everyone's into cooking on our land
Okay, 25 year old I have a 26 year old yeah
Just taking so much of the food from the land
taking that
essence that you've chased and feel from the land and just bringing it to the to the food and then eating it and then
Repetitively eating it over and over and over to where it's like everything that you're about like it's so cool
Person right? Yeah, exactly. That's the truth. Yeah
That is pretty crazy how we are anchored to the lands that were born on
You can travel you can cruise around but it's like
Kind of really can't escape that like borders. Those are mental constructs
Yeah, but like connection to the land that you were born on that's much deeper
That's something else and having the babies on the land connected to the land natural birth
Natural seeds started plants under the ganja with the flowers with the fruits
You know, I mean that's that's the like essence, you know that really and I feel like it's the it's all also the power
I feel like they're trying to keep us from in in this new paradigm this new medical paradigm on us and stuff
so, you know, it feels really good to sort of
Embody that power and see that so give love sky and Sierra, you know
Blessings upon blessings
Well, you know here we are 420 giving thanks to the ganja giving
Thanks
I'm thinking I might try to eat some food here in the next little bit. That's my breakfast
Have you had any good food almost six o'clock?
No, I just arrived
Just water not eating the fucking thing
To talk to you
I
By the way, I am
A big patty and a good
That's nice, yeah, we just got off. Oh I have zero doubts about 21 day liver cleanse, you know cleanse where it was kind of a
reductionist
Diet and and then also some
purges, you know for the oil
Little bit and stuff so that felt really good
and I
Started with Natalie
What about Moringa being from Jamaica the new Moringa tree
Yeah
Goal is to
Amazing this back we definitely have a couple people to introduce you on Jamaica just from our trip
Which was just one so I'm not we're not like we're all about Jamaica or anything
We met some special people that would like to yeah as well
We should take a small break here Kelly's opening up a jar
Maybe you guys could explain to the people who are listening what that smells like you could pass that jar around to Josh and I
Guessed and let them so this is cultivar
We've been a white lotus glazed cherries from Bodhi which shout out to Bodhi
Amazing person out there, you know
Yeah, and then we've been working on it on our farm for lots of years now. We just love that like
Let's see if we can get that
Turp profile. What would you say? The smell on that one is the nose?
You have like a hundred jars here
You can do a little
Flavor if you want to pinch it a little bit you started
We had to it has a little bit
I'm not everyone how nice that herb was that you were breaking up right next to me. It has like a sharp flavor like a sharp
Spice
to it and
How about and from a heads point of view, but they're really dry dry
How about like the three minute cliff note version of like the environment that that cannabis grew in?
Oh, okay
So this particular plant we fell in love with because it was at the end of our greenhouse where we did all of our light
Depping from the end of the greenhouse. So we have these mechanical arms on a 60-foot greenhouse out in the cootneys. And so we're
Well, it's it's a it's a chain hoist it's a chain hoist and
Yeah, it's a chain hoist attached to conduit and
You know, you there's a lot of people have seen there's different versions, but it's so it's funny more than anything but and
This plant had let's see like red
Red stem like for the fan leaves super fat leaves, but the leaves weren't touching
So they were sort of independent leaves and the in between all the leaves were red
super red stems
super green leaves and
stripes of red through the through the stock
Like stripes going all the way up and it was about probably chest height and
What the our plants are gonna hear is they're gonna hear early morning birds they're gonna hear and
Feel they're gonna hear late-night owls. We have the borrowed owls that go all night long. They hear water
We have water that runs beside the greenhouses
There's a continuous flow of air that comes off of the lake so it's like a full
dynamic
accumulation of everything that's happening on the farm not just
Stopping at the soil not just stopping at even the birds that fly over or the moonlight or the sunlight
You know, all of these things are part of our growth
We certainly enjoy to look at the moon and it enriches our lives and I believe that it also
enriches plants lives and in turn
Benefactors us because then it
enriches our own
personal
Experience here on the planet as a human being and that's what cannabis can give us when it's grown in full nature
And to add to that it's grown on a lot of rocks on the side of a mountain which a lot of rocks we pull
up when we do like
Terraces and then we break into the rock on accident like digging and then we're like, oh wow. This whole rock is a crystal
So the there's just the crystals everywhere. We're like underneath this giant mountain, which is like a looks like a pyramid
Right on the edge of the wilderness. So like also
It's the it's the spring fed water that's coming out of the mountain that's not having to come from a filtration
System, it's not recycled like pee water and stuff like fine. It works for cities, but you know
when it's like it's it's it's filtered through like
Limestone so it's a inner limestone like crystals and do you know about or miss or or miss is one of those like
minerals like fine minerals that you can get in waters and stuff out of like spring waters and it's like almost like this golden like
magical like
Resonating mineral so adding or miss and adding those kinds of minerals and into your water and having that so we just feel really blessed
to
Interact on the side of a mountain
Growing the sacramental ganja in line with nature
You know what? I'm saying
Breathing with us growing we use a lot of
Carbon in the soil so a lot of wood so it's like information from the trees. It's information
from
individual
bushes like
The bushes have certain nutrients in them. We lay them on the ground fold the dirt over
Make a terrace and plant the ganja on it. So it makes a lot of fungi
So you get a lot of mushroom growth and then the mushrooms are breathing in oxygen and out carbon dioxide
the opposite of plants so the more carbon like mushroom
Soils you can have
It's interacting with the ganja. You can even in you can even inoculate like reishi
lion's mane and my talkie which are
Met
medicinal mushrooms
Reishi you can make logs spawn log plugs and then bury the logs in the dirt underneath the ganja
And then the end then it fruits
reishi
underneath the weed
right and it's
Cycling this air back and forth with yeah, it's super like spiritual in that way. Yeah
And then you realize well this plant is a fractal plant because
You give someone a clone and they grow it in a hydroponic
Then we take it grow it in a regenerative
It's gonna look like a totally different plant and and even cannabinoid wise it will be different. It won't have the same
Profile, right? So here we are like
Way, we look at it is we're honoring evolution
We're honoring the sanctity of what got us to this moment and that you always hear about this like oh
We've lived with cannabis like for 420 million years ever since we started walking the face of the earth
It sounds like it's the longest cultivated plant
So we want to cultivate it in that environment where it can express itself and check it out
It it keeps it keeps showing up
kovat
All the sudden CBD and CBG raw cannabinoids, you know cure kovat or
cancer or
tumors or Wow the list goes on so
side notes
To the whole spectrum
Didn't rain even yesterday they said yeah yesterday Vancouver they were like thunderstorm. Yeah
Well 420 vibes are here the lake is glass the hash is melty and
I'm also there. I want chutney and I want like rice and peas
I
Would have been all
Even just a paddy's box. I would yeah back in the day. I would have like whatever check my truck
you know I mean, but
I'm just getting back into you know, Kovat has just got me really like being just chill
Kovat's got me chill and I'm okay
Yeah
And now people are like
It's the better way to go with it the chill way because there was really only two directions there was like neurotic and insane and
scared
Or there was kind of like, you know
Just ride this out totally riding it out in your head. You're like me from Jamaica
Honey, it's in my roots. I got this
I mean
So
I'm born there born raised and where I was and I was raised in Toronto in the sense that
Kiel and Eglinton was like I could walk to
So I just all like as a kid like I just thought you could get Jamaican patties everywhere
Like I was so ignorant
You can go to like a corner store
With like Koreans owning it and get the best to make like I just literally thought that's what Canada was all about
Yeah, no, but um, I just don't like the hustle and bustle of that city. I can't do it
It's I'm it's so not me
I'll be honest. It's too it's it's like anytime I go back
Like it's just you just like it's a it's just a hustle
I do a lot of things because of Toronto and I get that
In a chill way
You don't have to be doing it on I like vibration
Like where you burn house you start just burning out now
Like I'm trying to like I guess like I'm one of those like pioneer type of people like I you know, like I'm
Like black people there like they will never leave you understand I'm saying like
All I'm saying to them is that
Black people are in other parts of the country too. And you can you know, and you can like literally run things
When there's a time. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Hi
Oh
Otherwise, it's just a bunch of same old same old
You wouldn't know that
I saw the most amazing artists come through that city because it's a small town
The most amazing artists come through that city because it's a small city I would
Have like soak effects that was like a breakfast meaning it went from night till the next
Like a regular Jamaican concert
It's like 10 in the morning, I'm like I'm leaving
It's like almost 11 a.m. The next morning I'm driving out of the parking lot
This is that Tony rebel salute and I fucking here
1 a.m. I started getting excited. No, he'll be up by three men three minutes
No
First of all, I'm like, why are these Jamaicans carrying these pieces of cardboard with them? I don't understand this
Guess what they had brains and I had no knowledge
I'm standing in the you can't lay anywhere. There's mud
My vindication was in
Emancipation Park in Kingston, which is out in front of three of the big hotels there the Spanish Court Hotel and a couple others
Sizzla and I
Wayne
Just came and played a free concert and I was just in the park
I waited till 10 a.m. To see this guy playing now. He's just for free in the park
I thought you could have got those experiences in Calgary. Yeah, because I'm telling you promoters there brought everybody
They did and Calgary reggae fest that festival went for like 10 years straight. That's all strong
Like it was well renowned. It's kind of like Winnipeg Calgary
Yep, right and then Edmonton Edmonton has a bigger scene actually
Like they have a bigger festival all the things so I try to tell
To come come out there but you know comfort is comfort, you know, and Ontario is comfortable sometimes
I would like to thank everyone for having
You
Yeah, 100% and thank you London, thank you future
Thank everyone
Peace out for 20 happy 420
Do you have more speakers lined up London or yeah, we're gonna sort some more
We got a couple minutes
I'd show up with you for a couple minutes because we got like like 20 minutes until the award ceremony starts kind of fun
Where's Oh where'd Guerrero go
That sucks
Guerrero girl was there will hunt around they're gonna go find it by deep. There's Peter. How are you doing? Always on the move?
And I was like, so why did I just come to soccer practice
Yeah
Yeah, and you could just smoked weed with all of us it would have been fantastic
Hey, I noticed that you guys weren't really puffing tough like the audience wasn't really puffing tough right around 420 I
You know what? It was shameful
Is that just an American
Yeah, yeah, we're like
Yeah, they have they have a few people that have arrived that are a little bit more of here
let me just grab a mic so that my audio is better than what you're hearing, but that the
That we have a few MPs
Come in and it's more legal barrier stuff and like like people that work with the political government and things
so it's like a bit
Take your mics, okay
It's a bit of an interesting setup
But yeah, I was I would have expected one guy was walking around with a very large doobie
And I didn't see a very large to be being smoked
Yeah
Yeah, like one of those raw cones like inflatable
Yeah, yeah, yeah
So you got it apparently hasn't eaten since 6 a.m
So and neither have I actually where do we got? We got Guerrero there. There he is
Come on get in here Guerrero, you gotta help me you might be my bro
But I did just order a ton of didn't I fun Chinese food
For dinner which should arrive but 30 minutes after I get back
Oh, I'm jealous I gotta get some good munchies for myself. I'm gonna add you to scream Chris. Wait, wait, wait
Everybody I got to do some does he have like a sound effect that he does
Like how did like I can't do that voice very
The count and we have I mean I'm Canadian my voice is way
Can I turn the bass up a little bit like turn the treble down maybe
Everybody I know we have coming up to the green we have right now Chris Guerrero to the show
I
What is going on, where's my control of my camera your cameras off I know I try to turn it back on
Hey, so London what what exactly is this again? I kind of came on there it is
I see it BC craft cannabis summit
I'm high as hell. There's 10 Somerville. I've been taking
And hey guys for 20, baby
This is the joint I smoked earlier. This is Roach remnants of the guys smoked earlier
So, yeah
Look at free joint, right? Yeah, London you on the East Bank of the West Bank, buddy
Where's the bridge behind you where's the bridge cross the lake?
Okay, cool
So read the El Dorado hotel
Okay, you had it down like they said it used to be a barge or something I
Used to live in Vernon I used to truck through there I used to drive through there probably four times a week man
Vernon is I actually have family out there. Do you know of do you know of a
No, Silver Star Mountain you ever go up there
Actually the first time I learned how to ski was that Silver Star I went to and or B
School and that's where we the school went to teach us how to ski was up at Silver Star. That's hilarious. Do you know a
B&B on the mountain called castle on the mountain
Used to be about halfway up
Yeah, I used to be there my
Stepmother actually and her family grew up there. So like they used to live on that mountain
I
Know where a grand rod is I used to live just be south of the river about a mile down
more across is
Okanagan River at Grindrod
Very nice
Should we go mobile and
That's salt gun
Chaser
Those are actually highly addicting
Fucking white moss don't know what fucking you know, I'm telling you I'm gonna fuck him up. I
Am going to fuck him up those motherfuckers. They
Don't get away from me they're not gonna get away I'm going to get him
I'm serious. You think I'm lying man? I'm fucking serious dude, because
Like I said before I have I have my mosquito netting over my plants and stuff and those motherfuckers
Will bounce and bounce and bounce into the mosquito net until they try to find a way in
And if I see him bouncing now I have a way to get rid of them
So you only allowed to consume money after love?
So I smoke I will not smoke
The moths I will not smoke them
They will not be eaten. I'm sorry to all the vegetarians out there
They will go to waste. They'll go into a
Give them proper burial
Fucking chips
No one Doritos or lays
To cheese it's in the ruffles it's fucking happening. We're good. Oh
Not again. Another one. Where's it?
smoking
Smoking
Yeah
That's why we have the replays
I
Saw you
Know they're all setting this up. These are like user. These are hand-glown glass
Yeah, they have it set up over there you can set up like I brought my vape and everything to set up out here but
unfortunately
I was not able to pull that off
The remote control that powers the button
Pretty cool
Everybody else. Yeah
Hey, this is the first time I've ever gotten high with a bunch of Canadians
I'm about to
Girls try to get my shit today. I'm going to look let me tell you and I got Jesus
Don't fuck with me squirrel. I showed you a picture
Do you see that picture? Hold on. There's a picture. Let me show you this
Look at this motherfucker
I'll show you this fucking squirrel today
He's taunting me yeah, he's taunting me look at him
Fuck you squirrel he's coming
I'm coming for your figs
I'm gonna fucking shoot you out of the tree with this motherfucker. Don't be taunting me
I'm gonna get you look at him. Look at he's looking right. I think you might know Chris
You might need a little 22 to hit him
No, I don't I just want to scare him away. There are other fig trees around here. There are other fruit trees. Here you go
He can go to those ones. I want him to know it's a no-no over here
He's going to get shot with the salt salt gun
Don't fuck around over here
Or otherwise you get shot with the shotgun and with that with this salt gun this shotgun
not the shotgun it's all good I
Don't fuck around I
I'm I did I'm gonna be making jam. I'm gonna be making pepper jam. I got like
17 different varieties of peppers growing
So I'm gonna be making pepper jam and everything fig pepper jam and I'm going to be
For all the supporters, I'm gonna be sending out some pepper jam and some hot sauce
So get out there and support me and I will hook you up
and uh, I
Need a I need one of those camera things for this thing so I can make some footage of me getting this squirrel in the
And the moths during the growth season
Nature scope I have a little call it, you know, I mean
Montage a Monty I need a GoPro put on here and then I'll have a montage
Of
Of the
Me dealing with this squirrel. It's not just one squirrel. Let me put let me put a plural behind
squirrels
Squirrels
I'm going to get them
They're not gonna like being over here. I
Thought I was
Okay, and they say Canadians are crazy, okay, I mean I can't stand up to that man, I'm sorry
I got it ready right here
London you have a big grin on your face, buddy
Yeah, these people are funny. You get enough you get enough stoners on a rooftop and it's pretty entertaining
Which is actually pretty good. I'm trying to find we're trying to track down a couple farmers and
See what we can do about that one we do have the arcana
So this awards starting shortly we got what less than 30 minutes for that to happen
But I think we should like I don't think any of us have smoked a doobie together
Like have all of us consumed a doobie together, I think it's like 420 I think usually on the shows nobody smokes
Yeah
Do you should come on to my show Brian we smoke all the time I
Would love to come on your show brother
Yeah, just come on. You're part of the community. You're part of everything
Just jump on any time you want to smoke out if I'm going jump on and smoke out with this and this shoot this shit
Man, and let me know when you're getting that squirrel man. Obviously, I want to see that footage
I'm excited
By earth medicine farm in the kootenai's fucking shot me an invite to come up
I'm underneath the fig tree. I'm
This is my territory motherfucker, you don't come into my shit
I'm gonna get you squirrel. I
Want to show the squirrel again? I want to see you guys to see how he mocks me
He's waiting for me to move
He's like
That Chris move get out of there I am coming in and I'm gonna attack your shit
Look at him he's eyeballing me
He's got your number
He's he's eyeballing me
What's that Brian I want to see some Canadian weed at the at the event some Canadian weed
So when I was young if it had BC in front of it you would kind of
Know
Was the BC we good or no
Almost no TAC in it
Yeah
That was that was the name of it I'm not knocking any you know, that's
That was like rebranding something that was really good and said oh, yeah, man buy this cuz it's good cuz it's got bag appeal
It had bag appeal, but that was it. Yeah. Yeah
Yeah, then it's like oh you got the beasters
buddy, when you
I'm gonna give you a big bag of this
Sd and let you fucking smoke on that and I want to see the look on your face, man. I
Have no doubt that things have changed
There was
Representation of high-quality cannabis for a long period of time
I mean look at like it like Marcus and the people that we have coming out of Canada. There's a great representation there
I have no doubt in my mind that it was just kind of like a everybody's got gelato, you know
Oh, yeah, this is gelato here has some fucking gelato, you know
It's just it's people saying with hot instead of what's what it actually is
But that being said I remember a time when there was a lot of salt-grown cannabis here in BC
And it wasn't like full power like it wasn't didn't have that depth. It didn't have that resin didn't give you that retaining
like, you know mind numbing almost
sedative high at times depending on
Just like you it's like the high went on forever and London I don't very often smoke buddy
But for you happy 420 man
I'm pulling off this very poorly because I'm I haven't rolled my doobie and you've all be
Okay, come here I'm gonna I'm gonna call this guy in let me do my
I
What's up?
There is no intro like a Chris intro.
Am I right?
Oh, right on.
Happy 420, Chad, man.
Love you.
Yes, happy 420 to you up there.
So Brian, you will get that intro the first time you come onto the show.
And every time you could the first time you come onto the show every day, you will get
the intro.
But if you can rejoin every single time, I'm not gonna give you the damn intro.
It's just the first time and then you just every day you get the first time is always
special, right?
Yeah.
I tried.
I tried hanging up and coming back just to get another one.
But the man's he won't budge.
He won't budge.
It's just like it's just like people that have allergies and shit.
You get one good zoom type one God bless you one whatever that you whatever that you say.
And that's it.
I don't give you another one.
If I know that you have allergies, you only get that one.
And then that's this.
This imagine ditto after that.
So we don't so we're not like repetitive and it's a comedy acting shit.
It's like you know what I mean?
That's like thank you.
God bless you.
Thank you.
God bless you.
Thank you.
God bless you.
Thank you.
No.
Okay.
Jesus.
We got we got to get over that.
One friend that just sneezes at least three at a time.
So you just wait.
You don't want to appear rude but you're like I know there's two more coming.
We know.
And you let them know that's the rule.
You get one.
If you have allergies, you get one.
And just imagine me saying it after that.
Allergies are a bitch.
That's why I think growing the stinging nettle, that kind of stuff, being proactive, getting
bee pollen from your local area.
Okay, here we go.
I'm gonna give London the man on the scene.
Ladies and gentlemen.
Oh, good Chris.
It's the man himself.
The king of the network.
Peter Longpipes.
You guys are competing.
I'm back home and you guys are competing with the Celtics.
Is it halftime?
It's yeah, halftime.
First half was great.
But end of third quarter, fourth quarter is about to begin.
They're down by five.
Oh, man, that's funny because I know better, but I was actually serious when I asked that
question.
I was like, yesterday I told my wife, I was like, can we just order dinner tomorrow?
Because 420 and I'll have a lot of shit going on.
And she's like, what's 420?
And I was like, all right, how do I explain this to her in a way that she'll understand?
And I was like, it's like Chinese New Year.
And she was like, got it.
I was like Chinese New Year for weed people.
And she was like, OK, I get it.
All right, I'm sorry I took so long, but I'm smoking the doobie.
Peter, you must light up a bowl.
We're all so smoked.
I'm going to say not in the house because I'll hear like the yelling from upstairs.
But yeah, what you need to do it like just have people bring weed to the coffee table
up there and just smoke weed with them and talk about the weed they grew.
Dude, and that'll be a fun day.
Dude, dude, dude, I'm a I sign up on the Emerald Cup.
I totally will do that.
I will.
I will bite that bullet.
I will take that that one.
You know, I will take that.
I will like, you know, I would sacrifice myself in that aspect to smoke everybody's weed and
talk to them about it.
Well, did you probably.
I want to start doing like product reviews, but I kind of like I don't really care about
this tree so much.
So it's more like someone who grew in their backyard.
We're all going to smoke his weed and like, dude, I would love to do that.
I'm all for that.
We need to have the.
Yeah, I was thinking if like someone sends weed to me, I could send like care packages
each month to everyone.
And you guys hear me now.
We can hear you.
Yes, we can hear you the first time.
We were just ignoring you.
Yeah, care packages.
We need to live in Canada, man.
Canada has it going on.
Bullshit.
London, if you want to care package, you'll have to hook up, man.
I'll send you some of my sour diesel.
I can hear again.
Ken's a one hit wonder, the sour diesel.
It's all I got, man.
How long you been growing?
How long you been growing that one?
Isn't it?
I started out popping five seeds
two days after it went legal in Canada.
Yeah, I've got, I've sold 50% of my sales.
They're like 150 bucks a pop.
You're selling?
Yeah.
Hey, Lennon, you want me to mute you?
Yeah, yeah, sorry.
I was talking about the Cunning Folk brand
and we were showing off these guys.
My apologies there.
Wait, hold on.
We're getting audio from two minutes.
Yeah.
I turned the right one off.
Wait, talk.
You hit the wrong button.
Wait, talk.
Now we don't hear anything.
Yes.
Oh, now I hear you.
Yes.
Yes, I hear you.
Where'd that baritone come from?
You mean this one?
Yeah.
You mean this one?
I'm trying to hold it in.
I get terrible cough.
It's like, what was it?
Peter Brady who went through puberty?
Yes.
What?
Or...
I'm not going through puberty.
Fuck off.
What's...
Wonder years, Kevin?
No.
No, is it in the Simpsons?
There's a dude who talks like this?
Oh, not Milhouse.
Oh shit, it's Cheddar.
In the new house.
So, hey guys, I'm going to ask a favor of you.
I got to duck away for a second
while we move inside
because it's about to start raining.
What?
Well, I won't...
Yeah, no worries.
We'll amuse ourselves for a little bit.
Did you have to put it that way?
Did you have to put it that way, Peter?
I really didn't.
How do you?
Get out of the rain, London.
That stuff's worth a lot of money, man.
I did not know you were down here.
You got lost there, Cheddar?
You couldn't find us?
Why, man?
Is that the new house?
Should we supersize Cheddar?
Supersize Cheddar.
Is that the new house?
This is the new house.
Yep.
Sweet.
Woo-hoo!
That looks very satisfying.
High five, Cheddar!
What's...
Holy shit, that's...
Big propane tank.
So my house had those boilers growing up.
Go back to the boilers.
Is that like a Freddy Krueger type boiler?
So growing up, that's what I had.
It was like the oil truck would come
however often and fill...
Is that oil?
Yeah, that's fuel tank.
That is old school.
So our basement was the scariest thing.
And anytime my parents,
we had paint and stuff down there
or other random stuff.
So anytime I got sent down there to get something,
and I think you had to walk to the bottom of the stairs
to turn the first light on.
And it was like...
Of course.
It fucking...
Terrified, of course.
And the Nightmare on Elm Street movies came out.
Oh yeah.
I was like, I don't really wanna go down there right now.
I don't need it that bad.
Yeah.
But we had those boilers.
They're all black and...
Yeah, it was a Nightmare on Elm Street basement.
Yeah.
And every time you go down,
it starts making noise.
Dude, you got a huge basement.
Can you see?
I got a toilet.
Dude, your basement is so huge.
I got a toilet in the basement.
And dark.
Sweet.
Oh my God.
Are you ever gonna have to go upstairs again?
If you get a little...
Maybe not.
Like a little beer fridge.
Yeah, make a little kitchen there.
Let's see if I can get it back.
Here we go.
So this is the...
The cistern.
Okay.
Sweet.
You got your own water.
Yeah.
Thousand gallon cistern.
Rainwater?
Rainwater, yep.
Sweet.
Yeah.
Then this is another little room.
I think I'm gonna knock down this wall here.
So is this house built in like the 30s or 20s?
1948.
Look at this fucking thing.
Nice.
That's from 1948.
Fuck yeah.
That thing's amazing.
Look at that shit.
Oh my God.
That thing runs, man.
You find some hipster in New York to buy it.
Yeah, I was just about to say that.
We found, there's one that's like not...
No!
Anytime that happens, I'm like, is it me?
Is that me?
Was that me?
That's Cheddar.
Now you're back.
There you go.
He's back, he's back.
Yeah, we saw one that was like,
I don't know, not restored from 1954.
That was like almost $6,000.
Really?
What is that behind you?
Yeah.
That's a light box.
Is that organs?
Let's see, where am I?
There.
Right there, yeah, what is that?
Over your right shoulder?
Lights?
That is the, yeah, those are my LEDs.
So that's this.
And then on the other shoulder,
it looks like a projector.
Furnace.
Yeah, hot air furnace.
It looks like there's a lens on the front of that.
Oh yeah, that's just the intake, air intake.
Can we find more places for you to put the finger?
I'm sure you could, Peter.
I'm sure you could.
Yeah, but there's like a shower down here.
There's a toilet over here.
What?
Yeah.
That's pretty sweet.
There's like a whole little pantry area.
I had a friend who had the toilet,
he lived in this little tiny apartment,
and the toilet was right under the shower head.
So you could be taking a dump and taking a shower
at the same time.
I would try it.
I would try it.
I would 100% do that.
All right, so let's see.
Might as well teach you the rest of it.
Oh, you don't wanna stay in there too long though,
so the bowl doesn't overflow.
That would be bad.
No!
You have to make sure it's on a different line.
So this is like another little side room.
Oh, nice man.
Did you use the post office for all your packing boxes?
We did.
Those are tax dollars, son, tax dollars.
They're free to order.
I ship the same.
They got smart years ago, if you turn them inside out.
No lights yet down there.
But yeah, we got like the 1940s.
Dude, I love it.
Yeah, I love it.
You got what, two acres there, Cheddar,
you were saying, I think?
The what?
No, no, like three quarters.
Okay.
Good size.
Three quarters.
It's enough to make some Hugelkultur beds, right?
Oh, absolutely, yeah.
Damn right.
I said that cause Brian's on here.
Hey, how much did you do?
Hey, did Justin come and help dig?
No, he did not.
I didn't ask him to.
I didn't ask him to, but we got a piano.
Piano came with it.
Can you play anything other than chopsticks?
I can play the beginning of Dance Monkey.
Do it.
No.
No.
No.
Fuck that shit, man.
Bathroom.
How many square footage is this?
Yeah, we're on YouTube.
Hi, young lady.
She's like, I'm unpacking, you asshole.
Yeah, well, she should have ducked.
What, you got a curtain?
Oh, that's awesome.
Curtain, little upstairs.
This house seems big.
What's your square footage, Cheddar?
It's like 1,900 square feet.
Dude.
Door and bottom, or 19 main floor,
and another 19 underneath?
I believe all three together is 19.
Okay.
I saw a little door in there.
Do you have to eat something blue to get through it?
No, that's actually gonna be the little dog's room,
but check this out.
The oldest kid, he's a little persnickety fella.
He gets his own, okay, his own toilet,
and his own sink.
Right on.
In his bedroom, which is, I don't know,
that's creepy to me, but whatever.
That's cool, man.
Oh, that's weird.
Yeah.
Is that like a sliding thing to separate it?
Yeah.
Yeah, a mini door.
That's weird.
That's gonna be the dog room.
Oh, yeah.
So that's where the wife's gonna send you
when you get here all pissed off at you, right?
Gonna send you to the dog room.
Dog house.
Oh.
And then the youngest, the two youngest kids' room.
He's on the opposite side of the house
of where the router is.
No, I'm right above it.
I think I'm just-
Yeah, signal booster.
Yeah, I'm just moving too fast, man.
Hey, you, eh?
Come on.
Come on.
How's he doing with the new place?
There's lots of smells.
Benga, come on.
Oh, it's all brand new, yeah?
All brand new for that nose.
Hey.
The dead body smells of the last couple of days here.
Yeah, right?
They start digging at the concrete.
You know, beware.
Yeah, yeah, watch out for the fresh patch in the basement.
Yeah, exactly.
You don't know who the owners were.
They could have been serial killers.
You never know.
Go downstairs.
Wasn't Amityville up there?
Amityville was in, like, Connecticut, I think.
Sure.
That's what they tell you.
Keep an eye on her.
She's just running around upstairs.
I think it was in Maine.
Chewing on all your guys' stuff.
Puppies will be puppies.
Oh, man.
Has anything moved?
So where is this?
Like, you were like, you put it somewhere
and it's moved to the side?
No poltergeisty stuff,
but the wifey did say that some of the shades of, like,
shut, closed and shut.
On her, so she did a little smudging
and all that fun stuff.
So did you, have you determined your favorite bathroom yet?
The one where you get stuff done?
Because everybody has their one.
If you got more than one, you've got your one.
You know, I like the downstairs one.
I haven't used the basement one yet.
But there's no heat down here, so.
Hey, little one.
Can you say hi?
Did you win your soccer practice?
Were you good at soccer?
Yeah.
Right on, baby.
Say, how do you-
Yeah, my, no, but-
How do you win soccer practice?
Is that Canadian?
Yeah.
I think it must be.
We gotta all win at something, right?
My son won his game.
He got a goal.
Hey, sweet.
He plays for his family.
He's a good kid.
He's a good kid.
Hey, sweet.
He plays for his junior high team.
And then he also has a state cup game this Saturday.
Cool.
Congratulations.
Yes.
Very excited.
Don't give him a thumbs up.
Not one upper ring.
Just also mentioning.
Does Din Tai Fun get a thumbs up?
Two thumbs up?
Okay, bye now.
All right.
I'm just saying that.
It's not gonna accomplish if you continue.
Is she watching the Celtics for you?
Right.
Nah, I'm gonna go check and see if they started up again.
It's 15 minutes, right?
No, much less than that.
But she just came home from her,
her friend's mom drove her home from soccer,
which I also showed up to,
only to come back home with-
Yeah, they had to move inside
because it was starting to rain.
Oh, sorry guys.
I thought I had my mic muted.
I'll be back.
It could have been worse.
Much, much worse.
Hey, thank you, Mr. Truckloads.
Thanks for the update.
Oh, shit.
Yeah, so great show today, Chris.
And Brian, Chad, and Marco.
I kinda caught them here and there as I was back and forth.
I did two trips today, so.
When are you gonna finish?
Do you think you'll be done?
At least moving stuff in, not unpacking.
That's a whole nother story, though.
I probably have like two more trips
of actually moving stuff.
And then it's just kinda, you know, broom sweep.
Right.
Do you save the heavy shit for last?
No, heavy shit came first.
Nice.
That's the way to do it.
Smart.
And funny enough, the most stuff to move
was her stuff from her herbalist business
and her lime business from the trailer.
So yeah, that took the longest.
And we like, the house came with basically everything.
So we were like, we're not bringing our couches.
Those are going on the side of the road.
Because in our town, they do like a spring cleanup
where everybody just puts everything they don't want
on the side of the road and they come around
and throw it in the back of trucks
and take it to the dump for free.
So yeah, it just worked out perfectly.
And we were like, nope, don't want it,
don't want it, don't want it.
So we had this massive fucking pile of fucking shit
out on the side of the house.
They had to come with an escobader.
Wow.
So yeah, but.
So now we're, this is the first night sleeping here.
So we'll see how that goes.
And hopefully none of the kids get freaked out.
Whoa.
Am I missing, is this a known haunted house or something?
Or it just feels that way because it's old.
It just, yeah, well, yeah, it's old.
And like the people, I'm pretty sure the people died
in the house and they died, like the wife died in 2007.
The husband died in 2014 and no one's been in the house
or lived in the house since, so.
Oh wow.
Yeah, so, you know, they might be still hanging out
and like just kind of, I mean, if I,
I'd want to still hang out here.
The house is pretty fucking cool.
Like.
Dude, for real.
Was it like one of those like abandoned spaces buildings
where you walk in and the newspaper is still
on like the breakfast table?
Almost, really, like literally almost.
Like there was still handwritten notes on, yeah.
Like grocery lists and stuff.
It's still like, yeah, it's like time stopped here,
basically like time stopped in 2014 and did not,
actually time stopped in 2007 because you can tell,
like all the little touches and stuff are feminine,
you know, like feminine touches.
So, and then the guy touches are like,
he made like a shoe horn hanger.
His shoe horn hanger?
Yeah, like it's a block of wood with a dowel
with like a little clothes pin glued on the top
and it holds a shoe horn.
Hell yeah, gangster shit right there.
Yeah, you know, just like little tinkering stuff.
It's made.
But all the organizational things and stuff like that
are definitely feminine touch, so yeah, but.
There were no children or anything to?
There were.
And how does it just.
And actually, well, so they had already moved away.
They are now in like 78 and 76.
So they had moved away and they had made lives of their own,
had their own houses and they just didn't wanna let go
of the house yet, a lot of sentimental stuff to them.
And then finally they just were like,
well, we're getting old and none of the grandkids want it,
so might as well sell it.
But funny thing is my, so my mother's.
Banana bread?
My mother's mother is from up here
and my mother's father is from up here.
And my grandmother babysat the two boys in this house
when they were like six and eight.
So in 19, what, like 50, 56 or something like that, 58,
my grandmother was babysitting the two sons.
You have a connection with that house
and that family that lived there.
Yeah, so, I mean at some level, absolutely.
So yeah.
That is crazy dude, I'm telling you.
You would be.
Were you able to negotiate that
and like get a really good deal for yourself?
In a in a sense, maybe not monetarily,
but we did write a letter on someone's information
information. And I had mentioned my family's name that we're from
up here and my grandmother's name. And we asked the, because
there were four other people looking at the house. And they
read our letter and they didn't even show it to the other four
people. They asked us if we wanted it. So I guess in a
sense, you know, it did kind of help. Yeah, yeah. In a way,
because a lot of places that are selling good advice right there.
It was good advice, Chris. Thank you. It was very good advice. Um,
a lot of places that sell now, especially in these smaller
communities aren't are looking for people who want to live
there. You know, not. Oh, yeah, like, they could they they care
about who's going to be living in the house that they built,
you know, so most of the house,
we did the exact same thing that Cheddar did. And that's what I
told Cheddar to do. If anybody is looking to buy a house, how
you do it is you go through this, if you first of all, find
the house that you want. And make sure it's that house that
you want. Because what you're gonna do is you're gonna go to
that same person or the same company and tell them that you
want a house. And they'll be, oh, yeah, I'm interested in
that house. And then what they'll end up doing is pairing
you with a different, different agent. And then they'll be able
to get both be able to get both sides. So they'll use their greed
against them, because you're going to have many people
bidding against you. But if you have the same company working
with him, because they don't care, they're greedy. They'll
want that money. So they'll be able to get paid both people.
Yeah, they're gonna want that money. So you'll get the bid.
And it doesn't hurt to give them a note of note saying that
you're a family and that you guys are planning on living in
the house. It's the greatest thing to do.
So I skipped all of that first part. And I just did the last
part.
Yeah.
Yeah, I got a sister that's her sister in law. That's a real
estate agent. The best thing is to list the house and then to be
the one to sell a house because you get all the commission you
don't have to share with another realtor.
We went with a broker.
Okay, yeah.
Fancy word for realtor.
No, actually, a broker works through the banks, whereas
realtor just works.
Not again.
Almost got Justin Cooney.
That didn't go help you dig your stream.
I actually worked on that a little bit today.
Good.
Justin Cooney was a friend.
He would have been over there helping you dig that stream
because then you would be over your house. You have your house
when that she was working. Yeah, man, that is one badass stream
that I built you there.
He could have rode his bike to
Yeah.
Or he was bicycle day yesterday, right?
Every day is bicycle day if you don't have a car.
LSD. LSD bicycle day.
So true.
Hey, Brian, you can you see what London's doing? Is he getting
his shit together in the in the building or what?
Wondering? He's blacked out at the moment.
Okay, yeah, me wonder if he went and found everybody smoking.
Well,
he had there's that's worth about eight grand if I remember
right from that model. So he's got a lot of shit there that
needs to get in over the rain real fast.
You know, you think if it was a grand they'd make it waterproof.
Just that's just me though.
Yeah, no, you're supposed to put a canopy over yourself. I DJ for
a few years and I did outside parties and we made sure we had
tents all strapped down in case the weather went shit. Oh yeah,
no, you you protect that gear man because it's it's everything
to you. Without it you're toast.
Yeah.
Did you like vinyl or were you CDJ or Serato?
Straight vinyl. Straight vinyl. I worked in co partnership with a
radio station called K97 in Edmonton. And I did road shows
all over Alberta school parties, hall parties. I literally got
paid to go out and get drunk every Friday and Saturday night
for like two and a half years.
Were you scratching records?
Oh, man, I'll tell you, I can't hear what the shit but if you're
playing a vinyl and I hear a tick in it, it's like a drum
beat goes off. It's like it just you're tuned to that.
Tell them to clean the needle man. You got a dust ball on it.
Yeah, clean the needle. I hear it.
Hi Peter.
Did we win Peter? Did we win?
Something was good.
Yeah, I got out when rap came in. I just said no, no. For me,
I'm done. And I actually I moved to Toronto for a couple years.
Yeah, Canadians should stick to the pop music.
Rock.
Rock and roll baby.
I mean, you guys already got two strikes. You got Celine Dion
and Justin Bieber. What's coming next?
No, man. Don't give me that. I can't. I can't. I can't take
them in as a Canadian. I just can't.
Was it rat?
Justin Bieber, you can keep him.
I feel like you guys forced him on us.
We were only too happy to share cheddar.
Hey, there are a lot of people that like Drake.
He's Canadian too. And a lot of s'mores. She was God like
when I was in high school.
She was God in dogma.
She's got one hand in her pocket.
She played God.
Okay, you guys want to hear a really twisted one? There was a
guy who was dealing with the gophers in his yard. And he
tried everything traps the whole nine yards. He ended up
digging a hole. He put a speaker down and he started playing
Celine Dion. He's never had a fucking gopher again. They just
the sound the vibration they just left.
Which song?
Um, oh, God, I knew it. And I just that they just not coming.
The time they all the same.
Oh, man, you'd think so.
Yeah, I gotta I gotta take off. We got a catachronic coming up
at seven. But we're gonna try to do that after the award show. So
I was curious what what's going on with London right now. But I
think rain kind of interrupted their
Yes, it's a team of plans.
It looks like he's about to rain over here too.
He had to
read places.
Like shrimp, man, let me see.
Okay, anyways, yeah, I will catch you guys soon. I don't
know if we're coming back on this channel or if we're going
to the other channel, but go to the other channel.
Fuck you too.
Hey, FYI, you get multiple things going on at the same
time on the same channel.
I know he saw that he saw that tutorial. And now he repeats it
every show. He's like, Oh, oh.
So I never have to stop.
Yes, exactly.
I can blast on all the channels, but I choose not to.
I try to generally try to come on unless I'm invited. But today
I just had to jump on.
Awesome. Well, happy for any everybody for joining in. And
I'll probably be back in like 10 minutes.
No, I think this is my first time.
On the UNO.
This is my first appearance on the UNO.
Ladies and gentlemen,
on what does that mean? Oh,
sweet brother.
ESPN one you mean?
On the number one channel. I'm usually demoted to number two
channel because that's
number two is the demotion Christopher.
That's where all the others go.
Misperception.
Everybody else. All this.
Other people.
Trying enormous.
Brains.
Are you having a sugar stroke? Is that what's happening right now?
Are you having a sugar stroke?
Not yet.
Hold on. Yeah, hold on. Let me take another one.
Hey, you want to see a sugar stroke?
Somebody sent us a box of cookies for my daughter.
Like, I guess that's like something you said.
You guys want to see this shit?
Yeah. You can.
Well, it's like a hundred dollar box of cookies.
Why do Canadians even know what this is?
Reese's. Yeah, man.
Come on. You guys don't have
to try double sugar in your chocolate than what the chocolate is up here.
To be honest with you, we got way better chocolate here.
No, no.
I mean, you got all the.
Chris, you guys yell that you're getting yelled at by someone else's wife.
Hey, we might have to wait.
Holy shit. Oh, wow.
Right on, bro.
I don't want to.
I don't want to.
I appreciate gifts like this, but I'm trying to lose weight.
And the only person in the house that eats this shit is me.
I guess I'm watching you guys late at night,
watching replays and stuff.
That's why I have time to myself.
And look, it's got like frosting on the fucking.
Well, those are like Kraft cookies.
It's it's really next level.
I don't even know those things.
Oh, baby.
Jenna, is that your little baby sister?
We were all hanging out right now.
I'd be Oprah Winfrey with it like you.
Dude, I will tear those up.
Are those just regular cookies or are they edible cookies like like.
No, they're just regular cookies.
But well, whoever sent these to me, appreciate it.
Here you go.
Easter Bunny style.
Give this your kid, Peter.
Here you go.
Oh, yeah, you go.
Take it.
OK, Jenna, you're in control of everybody, baby.
You be doing a good job now, young lady.
I don't know if she can hear you until right.
We're kind of you're the boss now.
Seeing with his reasons is what my kids got right here.
I stole their candy.
Hey, Gemma, who won the game?
Reese's Boston's winning.
Yes. By how much?
Everybody, your candy.
Bye. Oh, all right.
And I'll be back.
I'm like, wait, never mind.
Oh, yeah. Never mind the candy.
What's what was the score of the game?
What was the score of the game?
Good hands.
Jenny's important.
OK, so which one should I get this?
OK, so I have an option and I'm not telling you
because you have to you have to guess which one I'm going to get.
This one.
That's crystal candy, right?
Yeah.
Candy.
I thought you were literally.
Is that flavored?
Rock candy.
What kind? What flavor?
I think it's coconut something.
OK. OK.
I think it's a watermelon.
Nice lollipop in that inside has bubble gum.
It's a watermelon flavor.
Is that a class?
Is that atomic watermelon or just regular watermelon?
I think it's atomic.
Oh, my goodness.
OK. OK.
Keep going. What else?
Oh, there's a that's a winner.
That's a winner right there.
That's 100 percent winner for me.
That's Andy was an experience.
I like that one. I like sour.
Those would be good with Pop Rocks together.
Who's giving out full things of candy like that?
Rainbow lollipop.
Here, here's a baller.
Oh, Lee.
He's just buying up full things of candy?
And Skittles.
Oh, definitely Pop Rocks and the sour.
My wife says she wants the Skittles.
Um, no, it's Sour Punch.
Man, can you imagine the size of egg that you would have to have to put that in?
Hey, do you have any ice cream?
Do you eat ice cream?
Yes.
So put those Pop Rocks in some ice cream.
Okay.
It's so good.
And then you eat the ice cream with the Pop Rocks, and once the ice cream's gone, you pop, pop, pop, pop.
Where do you buy Pop Rocks? I don't see those anymore.
The candy store.
Oh, like a specialty.
They're from Easter.
Easter Bunny.
Oh, right, the Easter Bunny. Right, right, right.
Easter Bunny.
Yeah, he's got a special connection.
He knows the classic connections.
He's an OG.
Yeah.
Pop Rocks makes me think of being a little kid, to be honest.
Like, it's kind of nostalgic.
Yeah.
Like, drinking a soda and everybody, oh, man, you think you can snort a Pixie Stick?
Her ear buds are still in.
I think she likes your hair, Jenna.
Do you have the ability to talk for long periods of time?
She did good.
She did really good.
Do you have the ability to talk for long periods of time?
No.
What?
That's not true.
That's your dad's job, right?
He loves to talk.
I think we could fill some serious hours.
She could bring in the youth contingent.
Did we prevail?
Thank you, Jenna.
We did.
We're 2-0?
Yeah.
Celtics won.
Did they win?
They did win.
But how many points?
Like eight or something.
Whoa.
So what did she tell you?
What was the big reveal?
What's she going to eat after dinner?
Oh, she has a pick.
Oh, there it is.
Oh, yeah.
I was pushing for Pop Rocks, personally.
Ice cream.
Pop Rocks.
Jenna, that was my guess, sweetheart.
Thank you.
How old is your newborn?
Pop Rocks.
Seven months.
Oh, jeez.
That's your thumb.
Okay.
Now the other one.
Now the other one.
Huh?
Yeah.
Yeah.
All right.
Let go of the Pop Rocks.
All right.
We'll be back.
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome back to the show.
Welcome back, London, to the stage.
No, I'm not London.
Hey, hey, hey.
There he is.
Oh, my God.
There he is.
Look at my, I look so terribly old.
Sorry, I was not.
It's a leisure.
I usually glamor myself a little bit beforehand.
So they're going live in like five minutes for this BCAR Cannabis Awards happening in
a couple minutes, but they're like half an hour behind.
So the most important thing in my mind is the band starting directly at seven o'clock
when they're booked to start, right?
So I figure we just go straight into the band and chill out for a couple minutes and you
guys can go straight into the band instead of waiting around for, instead of having to
make them wait around for a little bit.
That's what I thought.
I'm down with your thought, man.
Yeah, I think it makes relative sense.
It does to me anyways.
Are you presenting an award this evening?
Yeah, and I have to memorize a script really quick, which sucks because I've smoked way
too much weed.
Just take it out there with you and read it.
I can't smoke too much weed.
Just take it out there with you and read off the sheet.
There you go.
Get some bullet points and then fire it.
Get some bullet points.
Yeah, I got to make sure I at least get the names and stuff of the announcers.
They didn't pre-print out the fucking scripts though.
Extra points if you want.
Who doesn't print the scripts ahead of time for everyone?
Extra points if you walk up to that person and you bitch slap them on stage.
Donors are terrible.
We're hilarious people.
But I just wanted to say thank you guys all.
I really have to memorize the script.
And I got to say, oh, who just popped on?
I heard a mysterious stranger popping on.
Somebody's brushing their hair.
Yeah, he's telling you not to worry about what your hair looks like.
There's someone that gets their hair ready before they come into the studio.
Not like me looking all real.
He has a person.
He has a person.
I got to go.
I was making lunch.
Did you want us to come in later or here?
No, no, no, no, no.
We're going to skip that because they're just all over the place.
They're actually doing really good.
They've got a lot going on.
But they're not going to start for probably another five or ten minutes.
So if they don't start for another five or ten minutes,
I don't want you guys to start late.
They're coming in at 7 o'clock.
I want to make sure that they get this place.
Besides, it will be easier for me than having to record and memorize the script really quickly.
Okay, memorize your script.
Totally.
Totally.
Memorize your script and then they always take breaks too.
I mean, we could go back and forth too.
Yeah, for sure.
We'll plan it by ear.
They edit the live stuff too.
Yeah, they do?
Yeah, they edit it.
You have ten second delays.
Yeah.
Cool, cool, cool.
Awesome.
We'll see what we can do.
All right, I'll message you.
Ciao, ciao, guys.
Have fun.
I appreciate you all.
Good luck.
Party on 420.
Good luck.
Good luck, buddy.
Jesus, fuck shit.
You know you're still up, Canada?
That's pretty bad, man.
Man.
What?
Hey, man.
What's the hat say?
Man's off the wall.
Cool.
So, is Catachronics on O2?
Are you guys staying open on O2?
Yeah, we're open.
We're open.
We're open.
We're open.
We're open.
We're open.
We're open.
We're open.
We're open.
We're open.
We're open.
We're open.
Are you guys staying open on O1?
I think, if I just heard it right, he wants us to come in here and we can all hang out.
Usually they'll play like 15 minutes, 20 minutes, and then take a break, and then we jump back
in.
Or if you guys ... Well, yeah, because I think he wanted it here.
I don't know.
I was just listening in the other room while I was making it.
What did you guys hear?
I believe, yeah, that you're supposed to come on here, and then ... Because he doesn't want
you guys starting late, so I'm assuming coming on here and then take breaks to split up the
show.
Well, see, you're Canadian, too, so you're probably like London, and you're too damn
nice.
So, he'll do anything to not rock the boat.
He said they're a half hour behind because of the rain delay.
He doesn't want you guys to be late.
He wants you guys to be on time.
Cool.
Catachronic.
I will go and send them the link now, and then we'll hop in here together soon.
Everybody, hang around.
Stay for the conversation, and chat it up with Catachronic, too, because they like to
talk.
Request Freebird.
You can request Freebird, bro.
Stay here.
Request it yourself.
Cool, Chad.
It's a good one to listen to when you get out of jail.
Multiple audience members in chat, in capital letters.
I'm just going to head out and get a coffee back in a minute.
All right, fellas.
I'll catch up with everybody.
Okay, bye-bye.
So, I guess we're ending.
Nice.
Are we ending?
It's just us now.
Are we ending?
No.
No?
Are you sure?
Yeah.
I thought everyone was leaving, and they were coming back on with Catachronic.
No, everybody's not leaving.
Did you start this room?
No, I didn't start this room.
Who started it?
They did.
Are we supposed to end it?
I think so.
I don't think so, man.
I think so.
I don't know.
I think they're going to restart a new one with Catachronic.
Are they going to do that?
I believe so.
Is that what it's supposed to be going on?
I think so.
I don't know, man.
I'm pretty stoned, though, that Bruce Banner's got me.
I don't know what we're supposed to do.
Are we supposed to?
Yeah, I don't know.
I'm frozen.
They would have fucking ended it if they were to get into it.
I'm frozen in fear.
I don't know what to do.
Oh, Chris, hey, check this out.
You're going to like this.
What are we supposed to do?
Check this out, Chris.
Ready?
Oh, man, shit.
You'll like this, little buddy.
Let's see.
I've had this since like 2000 or so.
Oh, dude, that's sick, man.
Oh, yeah.
There you go.
That should be your background.
Huh?
That should be your background.
Not too shabby.
Put it behind you.
I don't have anything to hang it on, but yeah, it might be your background.
You can figure it out.
Come on, man.
Yeah, definitely figure it out at a later point in time.
But it's getting late here.
I'm going to go put the kiddo to bed and do that sort of stuff.
I come back and I'm like, where's London?
He has a half an hour reset.
Yeah, he's memorizing his script before he has to go up and do the presentation.
So he basically told Chad to bring the band on.
All right, because I just sent Stoney the link.
But all right, cool.
Chad's going to.
So are we supposed to hold down the fort until they get here?
Or what?
What are we doing?
Four minutes.
Yeah.
OK, see?
I'm going to go put the kiddo to bed.
All right.
I didn't want to.
I thought we were supposed to.
Chadder, brother, respect, man.
Ken, happy holiday.
Peter, happy holiday.
Chris, happy holiday.
You too.
And if I don't fall asleep, I might jump back on.
So cool.
Cool.
All right.
It's not that late.
Oh my goodness.
It's not that late on the West Coast anyway, but he's just done two loads hauling to that
new house, man.
That boy's tired.
Yeah, moving.
It's only 7 o'clock.
On the West Coast?
Yeah.
He's not on the West Coast, though.
Dylan McNeely, I would shoot him a DM on Instagram or send me a message and I can forward it
to him.
That would be my two cents.
So Gemma settled on the Chris, would you have made this choice?
Sour Patch Kids?
Oh, you know, honestly, honestly, if it was me, I personally would have took the rock
candy as my personal.
I would have made the sacrifice to Jenna.
Jenna, I'm going to take this rock candy from you and I'm going to use it to make tea or
make coffee with.
So just as your sugar.
Yeah, because it's just fucking sugar, dude.
Take that.
That's just pure Jeff.
So when I saw she has so much candy from Sunday and I told her I was like, you can bring as
much of that to school and give it to all your friends as you want.
And she's totally psyched to give it to everyone.
And I'm totally also psyched for her to give it to everyone.
Uh-huh.
That sugar.
Yeah.
So, yeah.
So you tell her that rock candy.
Tell her the rock candy is to make like a tea.
So you get like an apple tea or whatever.
And then you have her dip it in there and say, this is how you use it.
I think that's going to be a selling point for her.
Oh, trust me, it will.
I like Cheddar's ice cream with the pop rockets.
I think that was it.
That's a good one.
Like vanilla ice cream with pop rocks on top.
Yeah.
That'd be interesting.
And Louis, I don't dab, buddy.
I'll do a ball rip, bong rip once in a while.
But yeah, that's I don't dab.
I don't have a dab rig.
So.
Yeah.
If anybody wants to send me a dab rig or anything, send it to.
Send it to.
Oh, you got another one.
All right.
So I don't know if I'm so.
Oh my God.
Look at this.
Look at that handsome man.
There he is.
The man of the hour.
Tony Rockefeller.
How's it going, guys?
We're doing the setup live.
Oh, OK.
We get to watch the setup?
Yeah.
Well.
We have to reboot the main computer here.
OK.
I was going to say, we've got like the drummer cam usually and then the Larry cam.
Sound check.
Oh.
Yep.
Let's do a quick sound check.
I'm turning off this mic.
OK.
And then can you turn your phone sideways instead of the tall ways?
So I have to go get my harmonica.
Do it.
Play the harmonica with you all too.
Hold on.
And let's see how that goes.
This is going to play during the entire set.
Hold on.
Wait.
Let me see something.
Let me see my.
Where's my audio?
Put it right there.
There it is.
Check this real quick.
All right.
Maybe bring the camera down a little bit in front of Larry.
Yeah.
OK.
I'll bump the juju.
You guys bump the other.
So Larry, Chris is going to.
What did you do?
Can you get it on camera?
Okay.
Can we have a smoking guitar solo?
Okay.
That was Ken
Alright back to Chris with
Are you gonna raise the?
guitar solo with a harmonica solo
Yeah, I don't know where my harmonic is
That I think the wife hit it. I'll go look for it real quick though
That's not a good sign
Don't
Don't II or Larry can either of you guys hear us I
Don't think okay
Larry can you hear how you can hear us? Okay? Are you able to bring the
The camera that's in front of you down a little bit maybe to pick up more of the drum set less of the ceiling
Yeah, there we go
Badass
Badass thank you, sir
Yes, because you're sounding very not vocal
Where is the audio coming from?
And they're going straight into the computer
Okay, can you talk right into one of the microphones yeah
That's your left channel
I'll turn the level up because you know, I got it turned way down because we're jamming but can you hear me now?
Can you turn it up more?
I
Mean, yeah, that's yeah
Yeah, that's much better. But here's the thing when we're here give it we'll give it a little test with the band playing
Okay, because I think we're gonna kill it
I think you're gonna kill it
I
Okay, so bit somewhere between those that was too that was too hot but the other one was way too low
So somewhere between those two levels and it's perfect
I'd go up a little bit. Okay. Does everybody agree with me? Yes
It's like we have an audio engineer
You have two points up on the vocals
So what so
So so
The what I've always talked about is and we won't do it tonight
But the second shotgun mic should be slightly in front of you because it's not pick your vocals are the weakest thing
But if that shotgun the dangling shotgun was more like in the front of house
Because it seems like they're both to the sides right what's that
Now check it out. Is that different? That's a little better. Yeah, I got that fucking pointed right at there
All right, mr. Westport you got this oh
Wait, did we lose Chad? I think we lost Chad
All right, you guys ready
All right, Chris. So I'm gonna can you guys can everybody else kill their audio?
Okay
Chris and Ken, can you guys kill your audio?
Now like like you're not like you gotta like stop your camera
I'm sorry, not your audio your your video your video. There we go
That is the better word is video
All right, take it away
Go for it
Thank you very much happy 420 everybody and we are cataclysmic
This album's called stronger than dirt
You gotta be stronger than dirt
I
You gotta be stronger than dirt
You gotta be stronger than dirt
I
Happy 420 everybody
Waited a long time to say that
My brother wrote this one
Oh
Oh
Oh
Oh
Yeah
Oh
Oh
Oh
Oh
I did the man Johnny don't need no
I did the man Johnny don't need no
I
Woo
This is the last one
You say I get too drunk
I
I
I
I
Thank you
Thank you very much happy 420 y'all
happy 420
cataclysmic
Big ups. Thank you guys for joining us
Well, yeah, you want to tell us a little bit about those songs and
New material old material where can people find those things?
Yeah, I just loaded them up
Today
Could be starting to get ready, you know in like the next week or so on all the regular
Platforms, you know Spotify iTunes Apple Music, whatever all that stuff title
even the high quality, you know and
So yeah, it's it's cool. I'm standing over here because this is where the microphone is, you know, yeah
Yeah, no, it sounds a lot better. It's cool. I appreciate that. It sounded good. You got it
That was and
You know, we were a little lacking in practice tonight, but that's that's what you get with us sometimes
still it's cool rock and roll, but
Dude, you got we got Bobby singing debut
That was Bobby singing debut, yeah
This guy right here look at that
He's gonna can't could you hear what he's saying he's saying it's Bobby singing debut man, right?
Is that a is that a Larry grunt
Do we just lose them
This is great
This is awesome content, let me tell you a one
So basically London told me that
When catachronic is done with their world debut. Yep. You guys can wrap it up
Okay, I guess they got they all got kicked out and he's like going to eat for the first time today
Oh boy busy day
He did a rad job though, didn't he?
He had a lot of cameras and a lot of Mike stuff set up like that was pretty freaking cool on the rooftop
And then it started raining which sucked but hopefully tomorrow it'll not be raining
So I think Larry's the only one who can hear us, right?
Are you gonna hear us? Okay, we can you can hear us, but we can't hear you. That's true
Now we can hear you
Yes, nice and now I'll put the mute button back on thank you
Don't please don't go girl name that band
So how much more music do we have like another
You're doing a whole album right? This is all that was an EP so six songs and that was it
To do you know six out of times all we can handle
I was pulling the didn't I fun or I was putting it into the oven to heat it up. I
Mean we can play more
Yeah, man, I'm here to listen
One day we are gonna have so I have a question Larry where?
your vocal mic
the XLR cable
The other end attaches to what
Attaches to a focus right to channel scarlet
Whatever, but I thought the two shotgun mics that are dangling are attached to that
Yeah, no, the shotgun mics are recording. Everything else is going through a live board, which is feeding back to a PA system
So the vocals are coming out of PA monitors. Oh just back to you guys. Yeah
Okay
Would be to send Larry's vocal mic into the scarlet
Right, but the scarlet only has to two it's right. We could do that. That's how
There's a new Aerosmith. Well, it's an old Aerosmith and they had this inside the booklet
It said they had this to you know, reel to reel recorder and one microphone
They would set up for the band and Steven Tyler would sing directly into the other one
So that could be done we'd had to really figure out before you guys like a 12 channel mixer
150 bucks
Get a task cam is something I'll figure something and no task cams. I did task camp get a Mackey
Guess I could get a small mixer and do a submix and go directly into that, you know, yep
I'd take two microphones up so we could still fucking hear ourselves or playing
Like, you know the old time
When you see Jimi Hendrix and he had a bunch of mics came together and shit
You always wonder why the fuck are they doing that was for the that was for noise cancellation back in the day
We could send I could send
Stoney the like a drum mic kit with like eight microphones. We got like what?
So so we can mic up like the
like the kick the snare the
hi-hats the symbol the
They need a they need a 16 channel board to like get everything in and then holy shit. So wait, so wait, what's that going to?
That's going to my computer
That I record with man, and that's not even going to a mixing board. It's going to us
A fake mixing board on a computer screen, you know
D-a-w, they're real
But that does us no good because as you play live you can't mix it you could only mix it after it's been recorded
Because I thought of that there's no playthrough no passive playthrough on there. No
It's it's no, it's just a laptop only and
But theoretically we could send all
Larry how many mics are on your drum kit right now shit?
One two, three four, there's three in the bass drum. There's two on the snare drum
So theoretically we could send all eight of those mics to a
16 channel mackey mixing board well plus no. Yeah, maybe
Plus the the guitar plus the bass plus the two
Vocal mics I would do it like uh, I would probably just use the overheads a bass drum mic and the snare drum
Top and bottom and then you know, that would be good enough for the drums
We don't need to have every drum mic. We don't need to have top and bottom on the snares. That's recording
That's recording though, man. That's not going to do you any good. I know in the live situation
but yeah, you know if we did this theoretically
Drum and then that mixing board went out to your laptop as the audio input
yeah, I mean
To peter to like maybe we could go out, you know
Out of the board into the into the focus right with one of the channels. That's what I was saying just for you know
Just for vocals man
So they're clear but the only thing is they're gonna be dead fucking dry because I don't have any effects or anything
Well, i'll just have to sing really good I guess
Just get some auto-tune bro, just throw some auto-tune on oh no
I'd rather be out of tune
I don't know
Unless I was really getting jacked around by somebody to make it sound like a robot then I like it
Dude, I'll tune like if you do full when it's really fucking crazy
I kind of like that sound dude. You have to do a full on auditor and you can't go halfway
You have to go right all the way to the end of the pool. You gotta go all the way in
Right, you gotta jump don't go at all. I like when you say that go all the way in that's the way it is
You gotta oh
Sorry, ladies and chad i'm disgusting tonight. I want it to be very obvious, you know if it was going to be used yes
It would be like holy shit. That guy sounds like a alien or something
That's what I like just get a mega horn do it like jello biafra style just
The whole time spikes right in we need to probably just get the bigger focus, right?
Which I already had one. Well, joe perry's got one. He ain't using
There you go
We broke cat burglar. No, you're killing me
We're getting encore calls guys
I don't know if you hear them or not
What happened but I said the audience is calling for encores encore
Encores, all right
Chad look at my message. I'm gonna go eat dinner. But uh,
You got it
Change up the alignment don't play it the same way
No, we're gonna play some other stuff man. We'll play something
Stuff man, we'll play something
Okay, then do some really long solos
I want to hear some
We want to hear some paul butterfield blues band
solos, all right
Some five or six minute guitar solos five six minute drum solos
We want to see you sweating I suck at drum solos, I don't even bother with them
with uh
I watch too many buddy rich videos to even bother
Can I can I like get like a drumstick twirl to like hi-hat to like look at the camera?
Take your shirt off too
Yeah, there we go
I'm telling you. I'm not even a drummer. I just can play that's it. I don't have to tell you guys I keep saying it but
See, look at that chad. You could you could definitely out dana carvey me any day. Yeah
and the skills
Yeah, I can't even do that proper
Dude, can you even play that beat right here, dude?
Laura man, he shot it down. I gotta get you behind these drums one day man. You gotta come out. Hey, Laura said take it off
Laura said take it off. Hey, i'm telling you there might be some other chicken here that you that you know, and you like
That might be watching and she might you want you to take it off, too
Uh chris, I think you're speaking first person here
No
Ha ha ha ha
You know what i'm talking about
He's been working out
You're the one in the speedos right now
Is it sounding like too loud you think oh, yeah, right
I'm sorry
Let's go. Yeah
Rototom
Let's get ready. Oh
I think I pulled something
Yes, sir
Oh
Is
Let's get high
So
No matter what they do
Say
She can
Well, she can't swallow it all
Put you on a roll moon
It's way fine fine
Gonna make it go down
Baby, wait so soon
Cause she knows
It's only an excuse, excuse, excuse
Put on my bag, give me new socks
I'll give you a high five, I'll buy you a new bed
You got one?
Love it
I got that beat easily
Easily, I easily beat that
No, I have already done that
I beat that already
I have
It was a couple times, you know
It's the last night of a tour
And it's nothing to do
Well, the next morning it's just going to the airport
So, fucking play all night
And when you're in like Europe or something
They have no alcohol or laws to where
Liquor licenses where they need to close down at a certain time
It goes until, you know, whenever you can leave
Yeah, it's kind of cool in that way
I'm over Springsteen
So between the last song and the next song
What are you guys going to smoke?
We got two different kinds
We got Citral Smiles, which was Kazoo
His cross
And, um
What the fuck was the other one?
Oh, Snow Cane, V2
And
Orange Kush Cake
And this is all grown by the drummer?
Yeah
The hardest working man in the band
By the dude that calls himself the drummer
Alright, so Larry contributes his bassman
You contribute the weed
And Bobby just shows up and has to play the bass
It's just like, you know
You have the puck, I have the sticks
Bobby's playing goalie
I mean, that's awkward, right?
It's between the pipes
No, we're going to switch it up, though
I think we'll surprise you
So Bobby's going to do the growing
No, no, we're not going that crazy
Now you're talking insanity, man
Does Bobby have a green thumb?
Maybe he's like a rain man with his green thumb
I'm the rain man, actually, with the green thumb
Bobby just gets blamed for everything
That's almost what he's there for
Big shoulders, big shoulders
Except when he starts slapping the bass
He's all wrapped up in one package right there
You want to see Chicago?
Okay, good
I'm going to review this tape with these boys, Chad
This is going to be like the army
That was a fun jam session
Yeah, very fun
These fuckers are so loud, man
If you could see how loud it actually is down here
Tony's smashing the shit out of the drums
I'm barely hitting them, man
You don't see me bashing on them, do you?
No, those are love taps
I like the whispers, man
I love those whispers, that was beautiful
Oh, when we got down low, yeah
Yeah, that takes control
We got a little lower, but yeah, that is fun to go low
Well, I'll pick up the brushes next time
So, Stoney, who is the...
I'm just looking at James Brown
Who is the tightest drummer, in your opinion?
Well, it would be one of those James Brown guys
It would be one of those guys from James Brown, man
All three of them, actually
Was it Clyde?
Clyde Stubblefields?
Yeah, Stubblefields
And, you know...
Papa Joe, did he play there, or no?
I don't know, but there's a lot of really good ones, man
One guy...
I mean, like, I don't know the guy's name, but on the Michael Jackson
This Is It movie, you know
That motherfucker is sick, dude
And I mean, you know, but it just depends what kind of vibe you're going for
But, you know, there's a lot of really, really great ones out there
I think you're more just purely, like, keeping time
Yeah, well, that Michael Jackson guy
Plus, you gotta be able to do it with some finesse
And make it exciting, too, you know
And not necessarily play a lot of riffs
Some people just have that exciting snap in their wrist, you know
And it's hard to explain, but when you hear it, you know it
It's pretty cool, it's fun
It wasn't there tonight
It was a little rough, I don't know what's going on
Tonight was pretty rough, yeah
But we don't care
Just smoke another one, man
Smoke another one, just relax, smooth out
This was, I started early this morning on Eagle's show
I did nap for like three hours
Robert is too relaxed
You guys played early in the morning, too?
No, I was hanging out
We jammed earlier, though
We did jam
No, we did, we jammed
A couple of times
Yeah, actually, so I slept for like two or three hours
And I got up and came over here
And as I was on my way here
I was live with those guys on Eagle
And I get a phone call from the nurse at the school
She can't get a hold of their mom, of course
So, can you come and get your daughter?
She's coughing, and you know
It might be the C-word
So, yeah
So I had to pick her up
Come here, baby cake
You know, bring her over here with me
There's a new C-word
And so, yeah
And so, yeah, we jammed
She hangs out, you know, she digs it
And, yeah, then I came back
And we jammed a little bit more
And then we just did a little couple of tunes
On Uncle Rick's gig to try and get us tuned up
Apparently that didn't work out well
Because we were still effed up on your show
So, you know, maybe one day we'll hit it out of the park
I don't know
But at least we're making it on the air, you know
Before, it was like, there were times we just shut it down
Before we even got off the ground
Well, hey, man, that was fantastic
I really loved the sound and the feeling of the music
It just, it takes me back to a lot of places from my youth
Yeah, we're there too, man
Thank you, appreciate it
We're a bunch of, a couple of old decrepit dudes
I don't know if you saw our little movie intro thing we had going on
We had a couple of rappers and a couple of DJs
Somebody to press some buttons
We needed to get our sound more modern
I'm just kidding
I would do that
Chad, what are you up to lately? Are you busy?
Wanna come out to Chicago?
Yeah, yeah, no
Yeah, no
He goes, yeah, yeah, no
Yeah, yeah, no
You know what, I'd love to go back to Wrigley
I lived around there when I was a kid, we've talked about this
But yeah, going to Wrigley Field
Well, hold on, are you guys Cubs or White Sox fans?
Cubs, man, all the way
Cubs and Bears
What I like, okay, so what games would you prefer to go to would be more of the question asked
I'd rather go to the Cubs
The women are stacked, double stacked
Not afraid to
Well, I'm just saying that's how it is
That's what draws the men in there, not the game
I was going in the days of Harry Caray, if anybody remembers him
He was a famous
I was going back in the days of Jack Brickhouse, if you remember him
Damn, sir, no
You don't know Jack Brickhouse?
He was the original Cubs, dude
I came in on the Harry Caray thing
It's cool, though, that Harry Caray
Harry used to be White Sox
The Disco Demolition, that was when he used to be the Cubs
Back in the day, I was just gonna say, it's cool because Harry Caray did the Sox and the Cubs
Man, you guys are fucking up childhood memories right here
I wanted to go to that, my cousin almost talked to my mom into letting me go
She won tickets from Steve Dahl on the radio
She got to sit next to him on the stands, throwing fucking records out there
It was like, bring as many disco albums as you can
If you know a friend and you ain't going, bring yours and give them to him, too
That's what people were doing, walking in with stacks of records
That's so dangerous
This is one of those things, it's almost like when people throw a contest for a seed giveaway
You think it would be simple, but it's never that simple
DJs, we get records pressed, so you think you should bring some to the club, you could throw some out
Not that simple, those things can hurt people
You start tossing out records and then you realize
They weren't really tossing them out
Chad, they more took them at the door as money
Instead of paying for the game, it was a double header
And they took them and then somebody piled them up in the middle of center field
Between games, and then they blew them up with dynamite
So the next game got canceled and the Sox had to lose by a forfeit
They had this big disco, we had this radio DJ around here
It was like this anti-disco, disco Sox rock and roll
And so you bring your disco record to get into the Sox
And then they blew them up, and it was pretty hilarious
Wasn't the whole anti-disco thing started by radio DJs or something?
But now it's cool
Yeah, I was going to say, but I like some of the stuff for sure
Especially, you know, a lot of it is just, it's all just songs
And all they do is put a different beat on it
Do you guys have any disco tunes in the repertoire?
Can we get Dancing Queen?
We could do all of our songs as disco
A little Dancing Queen
It's just all the beats
Just a straight
So, Larry, can you play something on guitar
And then give it a little disco twist?
Sure
Yeah, it's going to be more like a 70s thing with guitar nowadays
Yeah, for sure though, yeah
But it's mostly the beat, like, you know
When you see an organ that has all the pre-beats programmed into it
Like an old-time organ at your grandmother's house or something
And the names of the different music are the actual beats of the drums
So, you know, it's like they have rock and that's a specific beat
And then they have samba and that's a specific thing
So you can really play any chords or music over those beats
And it'll be that, you know
Yeah, the old-time Yamaha's had that
I remember that with my mom when she got one
Yeah, and those are really fun to play around with too
Those little beats going and shit
Makes you want to jam, you know
Yeah, it's not working
Yeah
So you can play like a Clash song with a samba feel to it
Sure, totally
You can
Yeah
I want to hear that
Like Saturday Night Live's solo, single string solo
You know who's really amazing on the guitar to do little tricks and all that stuff is Bobby
Is Bobby KO'd in the corner?
Ah, there he is, he's right there
I'm right here
He's, yeah, he's
I need a light
He's too high or something
I don't understand it
420
He knows all the, he can play Mario Brothers and all that
You know
All the different versions, 1, 2, 3
Can we get like a video game medley going?
You could do a Mario medley
I could do it
Should we do it?
Yeah, Stewart Copeland, jazz guitarist, right?
Yep
It takes a little practice
Yeah, I need a little practice
I think we're trying to tease you guys into getting to the Grateful Dead 5 hour mark
You guys really should
What's happening tonight?
Where's my nitrous, Stan?
Yeah
I need some cocaine
No, no
Some hookers, no
Oh, that was the 70's
We'll have to put mute on
I need coffee and some good weed, but
I think you have both those things
Poor man's speedball
Yeah, it's easy to get
I hear
Hey, do you guys want to hear more music?
Do you want to hear the Mario medley?
Yeah, right
Bitter powder, little beats
Try it, why not? Let's do it
I want to hear, I love video game music
Actually, BBC Radio 1 has this thing called Gameplay
Every Sunday, it's just like two hours of video game music
It's freaking awesome
That's pretty cool
Yeah
Is it like the actual music, or is it like somebody playing it on the guitar?
It's composed, yeah
I mean, it's orchestral
But a lot of the music in the video games is
It's not like the 8-bit video games
But yeah, you know like Warcraft and those types of things
They've got pretty crazy soundtracks to them
Pretty amazing soundtracks
Hans Zimmer, really famous composer guy
Hans Zimmer?
Yes
Okay
Check it out
Yeah
That's cool, man
Danny Elfman is my go-to for music scoring, though
He does a lot of stuff with Tim Burton
He was in an 80s band called Oingo Boingo, though
Uh-huh, cool
But yeah, Danny Elfman is the man when it comes to scores
That's who I dig
Simpsons, right?
Yeah, he did do The Simpsons, too
He's on a ton of shit
All over
Yep
And I love Tim Burton movies, too
So they just go hand in hand
So what, do you do like a medley of all the songs?
I've seen that, yeah, where he's like done that live
I was just mentioning him as somebody that I like for composers, though
We didn't play...
Are we hooking up again?
No, I'm just listening to this
I don't know, what do you guys think?
You want to hear another song?
Listen to this guy
Yeah, man
I want to hear a song in a totally different style
What do you want to hear, like country or something?
What's that?
All right, what do you want to hear, like country or something?
Anything that...
Can you play...
Go ahead
I was going to say, can you play Thunder Roll?
Thunder Roll?
No, we can't play any of that stuff, it would shut down your station
It's okay
Yeah, copyrights
Yeah
You got to make your song
All right, so we need to play something with styles
So...
I'm trying to think of something like a...
We talked disco...
Can you guys go disco?
Disco?
All right
All right
Again, that's all on Tony
I mean, I can... I mean, it's just straightforward
Here's what he's got to do
It's just straightforward
Yeah, I know
Is that what you're talking about?
That kind of disco?
Yeah
It's almost like...
What's the comedy show where they throw out like a word or like a phrase
and they like riff on it?
So someone said Pink Floyd
So if you did a Pink Floyd song in a disco style
Oh, do like something like that?
Okay
Do it
Okay, so we got to play it
Do it
All right, so...
Just let it flow, man
Just let it flow
I definitely have a way
I actually rocked a white jacket for Easter
Nice
And I was going to put the white pants with it
Pink shirt?
Pink shirt, Peter?
I have a pink shirt
That was from the wife, by the way
That was not your voice that I heard? The squeaky voice?
No, no
That was my better half
Hey, Peter
Hi, Mrs. Somerville
She's just sitting here rocking to you guys and she's loving it
Mrs. Somerville, are you dancing in the background?
She says, yep, but you know, I'd prefer a pole, you know, but I might get smacked
It's just a thing on the wall
I don't know a jail winner
So what do you guys think?
It's never too late
You got to get her to do anything you can't do yourself
I hurt my toe
She just said she'd hurt herself
It probably hurt me too
These guys are giving a lot of thought to what song in what style
Oh, are we?
Are you smoking a big fatty back there, Peter?
No, I'm just having a quick smoke
Play a song, bro
I can't pick a song, the beat's going to be the same for almost every song
Give us a really strange beat and just let it go
Ready, Bobby?
Yeah, let's do it
Turn that mic off, you got to turn those off
I didn't mute myself
I think you just muted the band
You can hear us now, right?
Cool
I, by the way, rocked a red plaid suit on Easter myself
No classroom, no education
No thought control in the classroom
We should leave them kids alone
Hey, teacher, leave them kids alone
Hey, teacher, leave them kids alone
Is that thing working?
Yeah
The only ones left in here?
Oh, there he is
Yeah, I don't know, guys
We're pretty high and tired and old
One of us has to get up and go to work tomorrow
Dude, you guys stayed a lot longer than you had to
Okay, there's some older guys here and a little more of the crap that can't hang
Little gray on the edges, yeah, little gray on the edges
Whatever, no
I'm just saying
I'm old, but I can still hang, you know
I'm not too high, that's all I'm saying
Man, that was great, thank you guys
You're welcome, guys
Thank you for letting us poison up the YouTube song list
The new McCartney song
New McCartney?
Chad knows about it
Chad, how's the new McCartney song?
I don't know
Bobby's gonna hum it for you, take a listen
Between the Daughters
Alright, hum it for me
You know what, though? I did just get tickets for Elton John's farewell tour
I've never seen him before, and he's an amazing musician
So if it's really his farewell tour, I should probably bother going
I don't know, I went in 2015 to see the Who's Farewell Farewell Farewell Farewell tour
Apparently they're back again this summer for another farewell tour
Yeah, Motley Crue did that to me, man
Motley Crue even signed a contract that they would give up all this money if it wasn't their last tour
They never stopped
So it was still their last tour for like three years
It's like, fuck, they sucked anyways at the end
Long live the crew
Oh, wow
You can't stop playing, man
How do you stop that emotion that's inside of you that needs to get out?
You can't, you just gotta keep going
Yeah, a lot of people in chat were loving just the expression and hearing the jam tonight
That's fun, when you hear talented musicians, just do your thing, man
Do your thing, we're entertained
It's all about having fun, right? For me it is
Not here making money
Definitely not
It's for the love of the music, man
That's just the love that I can enjoy with you guys, thank you
You're welcome, my brother
Thank you, man, thank you
Hey, there's Peter
There's a few little ladies that were dancing to the music, guys
Oh, yeah?
It's so sweet
Awesome
They're just popping in the background, it was wonderful, man
Kids like us, kids actually like us
That's because my kids are always hanging around here
No, it's not why kids like us
No, well, I mean, we're just
We were hitting some real hard punk rock and my wife said that Tony's youngest daughter jumped up off the couch and started jumping around
You know?
Right on
It was pretty funny, she said
It's that energy, it's the energy, how can you not?
Yeah, exactly, Chad
No, that was Ken
I mean Ken, sorry
I can't see on this fucking screen, I'm so blind
I can't see with these
I can't see with or without my glasses
Put on all your shoes and glasses
So I can hear you better
Totally
Brush your hair and comb your teeth
Stay in drugs and don't do school
I haven't had a backstage jam like this since back in the 80s, man
I guess it took me right back, man
Chick-ass
Yeah, it's fun
Is live music starting to come back to Chicago now?
I don't know, no one's asked us
I haven't even looked
Yeah, there is, there is, for sure
But you know what? They just, just
Like, yeah
Like about a week or so ago, lifted out like
Needing all the shots and the masks and all that
And I was like, I don't wanna fucking go to a concert and be having a mask on my face
And I know, you know, you gotta give in here and there and people do it and whatever
But I thought, you know
When you're ready
Yeah, but you know, I was wanting to go see Ween
And there's another band that plays for a long time
And they usually, you know, they play for like three and a half hours
And I thought, I can't handle it the whole time
I went to a Banksy art exhibit over the summer
Oh, it's amazing
And, you know, you had to wear the mask
And all I had was this little kid's mask
And by the end of the thing, my ears were killing me
Because it was too tight, you know
I'm just thinking it's like a G-string
It's just like cutting into your mouth
No, it fit over my face
But it just wasn't quite long enough for an adult's face, you know
Yeah, no, I do know, anybody, yeah
I mean, if you've worn masks for a certain period of time
That ear thing is real
But that's rad you went and saw Banksy, man
He's in Portland right now
Oh, cool
I'm going to go to Amsterdam for a month
Which is where I saw a first show of him
But by the time I get back, it's going to Honolulu
And then it'll be in Hawaii
Or no, it's going to Honolulu, then it'll be in Seattle
So when I get back, it'll be in Seattle
So I'll go catch it in Seattle instead of Portland
It was pretty cool
It was really worth going to and checking out, man
Yeah, Banksy's...
It's not like, you know, he's there or anything
Even if he was, would you know?
No
It could be like the usher that takes your ticket
And you wouldn't even fucking know it
No, and he strikes...
He does that type of shit just to be funny
Sure
I wouldn't put it past him
That's awesome
Or her or them
Hey, that's why I clicked in
Is because I don't think that he would be involved with such a thing
With all those rules
Well, yeah, but you know
I don't think he was actually involved with it personally, per se
It was like an unauthorized...
Other than the few things like Better Out Than In
And then the Dystopia World type stuff
He doesn't do gallery shows
All the gallery shows are private art collections
That people have put together into a Banksy exhibit
Yes, and that's exactly what it was
Everything belonged to somebody
And some of them were really big and stuff
It was really cool
Yeah, I got to...
My favorite piece is Church Boy
Which is where it's like the kid in the hoodie
With the paint bucket in front of the big stained glass window
With all the writing on there
They had that at the MoCA Museum in Amsterdam
They had the exhibit there
And that's my favorite piece
And there it was, it's like 10 feet tall
I'm just like, that's...
It was fucking awesome
They didn't have that one, man, obviously
But they did have...
I think they were all originals too, man
And they didn't have the one that gets shredded
I think they had a replica or something like that
My wife took a ton of pictures
And my phone wasn't working at the time, you know
So I didn't get any
But there were some really good ones
It was really good
They had the...
Well, I think we talked about this, Chad
The thing that he did to...
What was the guy? Deadmau5?
Yes, yes, where he did the CD
Yeah, that was fucking hilarious
Reverse shoplifting with Paris Hilton stuff in there
It's kind of... fuck with them
Yeah, he's crafty, man
That's why I was so stoked to actually see some of his original pieces
A few of them were ones where they...
Because this happens, he spray paints a wall
And they cut the wall out
There was some concrete chunks that were taken out
That people pay money for
The repair job is cheap
The painting's more valuable than the repair job
They don't give a shit
And then you think about that, it's pretty crazy
Yes, and I've liked that he's used that
Kind of like taking advantage of the fact
Like during...
Healthcare workers have been under a lot of stress
Over the last couple of years
And one of the things he did for one of the hospitals in his area
Was like, here, I made this
You keep it, you sell it
Get yourself some equipment
Give your people raises, do whatever
I know how much this is worth
Have it, do what you will
Wow, that's pretty cool
I always like seeing that type of shit
And he bought a boat for all the freaking migrants
That were trying to cross the English Channel
And getting stranded
And that's never a good situation
So he sold a bunch of art
And bought a boat to save them all
And then on the first major call
They overloaded the boat
And it broke down and had to be rescued itself
Oh my god
So it was a nice try
Yeah, his heart was in it, man
I guess, you know
I dig the art stuff
I dig the art
Whether it's music
Whether it's canvas
Whether it's spray paint on concrete
Me too, Chad
I gotta say, my brother drew our album
Let me go get this picture
Grab that thing, can you please, Tony?
My brother drew pictures of
We took selfies and sent them to my brother
And everyone sent a really crazy picture
So we looked a little crazy
But it was cool, because he drew this
And then we
I grew up here and then shaved it off
Can you see that?
Yeah
Oh, wow, yeah
Oh, that light flare kind of sucks
The light
There you go
No, no, it's in between the faces right now
Right
So that's Bobby on the top
I'm on the bottom
And then, you know, Stoney there
It looks like he has a big, thick beard
I don't know, was my brother hallucinating when he did it?
And then that's Johnny, the guy with the hat
But he's not here, you know, right now
Yeah
Johnny doesn't need romance
He's a little shy, yeah
I'd cross the street if I saw that walking down
Down the block
He drew that and he's like, so what do you think?
And he's texting it to me
And I'm like, wow, man, that's amazing
And he's like, you know, we were at his house
Messing with it on the computer
Because then he just put the heads on there, you know
And he said, you could have the original
I was like, wow, cool
Well, that's very, very, very Queen
Bohemian Rhapsody-esque
That's what he said that he copied from
He said he was looking at the Queen picture
Sweet
And put us in the same way
Exactly, yeah
Except we look psychotic
Yeah
But that was normal
They look great
We look like a monster comic
A bad monster comic book
A 420 monster comic book
When you're drawn, think, man, I'm onto something here
And you wake up in the morning and look at that shit
And it's like, yeah, I can see the good idea in it
But yeah, it was just bad
But hey, you know, that's the fun of doing stuff, right?
Yeah, I wish I had a bigger picture
I wanted the whole thing to be art
Not just, I wanted the actual drawing
Not just like a picture or something
So that was, getting back to what you were saying, Chad
I like all art, man
Yeah
Painting, whatever
Drawings
Creature
Huh?
It's creation
Yeah, Tony's daughter draws very well
Yeah, she's in an anime now, so
If she actually applied herself, she'd be awesome
Well, she's still young, I'm not gonna push her
I don't wanna be a pusher
Push her, man
Well, I do, I tell her how good she is
You're like one of those stage moms
You gotta kinda massage her
I told you to smile, you little
Oh, man, it's at volleyball
That's one night in the box
It's at volleyball, it's terrible
I feel bad for the guy roughing the games because
Man, the minute someone makes a mistake with one score
Oh my God!
And the moms are out on the court freaking out
I'm like, holy, they're scarier than the guys of Little League
I'm not gonna go there, okay?
I'm not gonna go there, she's sitting beside me, okay?
That's right, you're right
She's more dangerous than, you know
If Chad was sitting there and you said something shitty about him
He wouldn't hit you or nothing, you know
Yeah, fucking, I'll fucking
It's getting violent
I'm gonna hug you, I would hug you
There you go
Come here
And then choke you out
It's a problem
Come here
Wait till we get home, honey
Wait till we get home
I'll tell you something, man
I'm gonna probably get my kids into that jujitsu stuff
It's great
I've seen a 12-year-old little girl take out like a 200-pound dude
That was pretty badass
That's what I'm saying
The guy's like, go ahead and swing at her, man
He's like, I ain't swinging at no little girl
He goes, that little girl, kick your ass
He cuts half of his ego
He's like, fine
He walks up, he goes to give that kid a swing
Next thing you know, she was behind him, around him
Up on his back, around his shoulders
Next thing you know, he's driving with his knees on the ground
Rolling over, and she's got him
And he's done, man
And he's tapping out
And I was like, okay, I gotta get my kids into that
Do it, man, do it
Definitely do it
I gotta get me into that
Good thing about jujitsu, too
I doubt no more
It's really mental
There's a lot of mental chest to it
But as you learn it, there's flows to it
So it's like, okay, I'm gonna go for this move
If he starts to defend, well, then I'm gonna go to this move
It's always like three steps ahead of where you are
And mentally, and the discipline that that can teach kids
I think is freaking great
And it's not as violent
I like all MMA
I trained all MMA
But you teach an 11-year-old boy how to kickbox
He's gonna kick somebody in the head
But if you teach him jujitsu, it's a little different
It's the mental aspect behind the art that you need to learn
For the balance and the control
I had to do that
That's the true lesson behind it, really
It's not the skill
Look, you're gonna learn the skill set of taking out or defending yourself
Successfully
Disarming someone
But more of the lesson is in the amount of seriousness you put into something
And what you're gonna get out of it
There's a bunch of other lessons in there that I don't know about
That I've only heard
And I can only just imagine just by seeing and knowing about some of the stuff a little bit
Reading and whatnot
I took some martial arts when I was young
I used to get in a lot of trouble
And it gave me the control where I wouldn't react
It gave me the strength to stop and think
And then go, okay, no, you're not worth it, asshole
When you're always calm
That is your best friend
And not panicking when you're fighting
And that's what it teaches you
And through repetition, you're able to shed that natural instinct of like, fuck, fuck, fuck
And then once you can have that calmness and that control
You're able to really assess situations a lot better
And just like you said, it's not worth it, man
I may have to look stupid for a second
Whatever, I can be called a name, whatever
You learn it's about what you can do
And you don't care about anybody else
Because you can hurt somebody
And you just, no, you're not worth my time
Just go away, bye
It's pretty funny, like my audio job
The guy who works for the UFC who does all their music
I gave him a lot of support
So he'd always hook me up
I go to all the shows, I get to meet all the people
Which is rad
And I commented
And I heard, you know, I'm like, everybody's really chill
Like I was expecting at least to be like a couple of the aggro fuckers in the crowd
Or not the crowd, but you know, like in the group of fighters
And the managers and the trainers
And I wasn't really seeing that
And he's like, you know, it's pretty easy to be calm
When you're pretty confident you can kick 99% of the people's ass in this room
I'm like, you know, I would probably have been a lot more calmer
In many situations in life
If I'm like, I can mop all you people
Right
So, yeah
Or at least know that you can protect yourself to the point
To where you're gonna, no one's gonna
Well, you know, that's a rule of thumb of life
Is always be careful of that quiet, calm dude
Yeah, the quiet guys you never fuck with
It's always the one, man
It's always those guys
Or small dudes
Get your daughter in the tub, man
That's for her safety
Calm until he's not
Exactly
Yeah
Fucking, you wish you didn't wake that guy up
For real
I've had that a few times
I learned very quick, you know, to shut my mouth
I got my clock clean real fast
And I'm like, okay
That was quick and painless
I learned my lesson
You're like, I didn't see that coming
That never happens when I say that on the internet
Yeah, I don't do the internet shit
Well, you know, I saw something
I'm in person when I'm on the internet
I don't want to hurt anybody's feelings
I saw something this morning, a video
Somebody posted on Instagram
It was this chick
Apparently went to some apartment of some girl
Uh-oh
That she knows that she doesn't like
They don't like each other
So that's not a good story
And the mom answered the door
And she grabbed the mom and smacking her
I mean, whacking her good in the face
Slapping her
And it's like talking
Someone's videoing this, you know
That's wrong
She was doing it to send to her mom or something
From what I understand
Well, then they found the chick who was doing that
Slapping and sending the videos
She ended up getting less than
It wasn't even a day later
Found her dead, 16 bullet holes in her
You know, and it's like
And people are
I heard more people like
Oh my God, 16 times
How ruthless
I'm thinking
What's the difference?
I grew up where I came from
That's what would happen to you
If you fucked around, man
I'm sorry
I grew up in the fucking
Mafia breeding ground, basically
And you know
You kept your fucking mouth shut
Or you were gonna end up
Yeah
You know
A wood chipper
Yeah, something
There are some people that don't play, man
They weren't gonna find you
But they found that girl
And everyone's like, oh my God
It's like, yeah
Here's the thing
We needed to shut our fucking mouths
Now, I don't know the backstory
But
Right
Still, to do that to someone's mom
I mean, I don't know
Yeah, you shouldn't walk up
And slap somebody's mom in the face
It causes a lot of violence
Yeah
You know, I'm sure there was
Some other altercation before that
Right, right
And escalated, and now you're dead
Yeah, so
So, yeah, I mean
Moral of the story is
Two wrongs don't make a right there
Somebody has to stop that chain
Of escalation
Because everything can always escalate
And there are some people
Or respect one another
Yeah
Respecting each other's boundaries
Yeah
Don't worry about what that person's doing
As long as they ain't treading on your shit
And bothering anybody else
Not to old school, man
We gotta teach these kids
What old school really means
Let them, you know
Let them live their life
You know, just go do your thing
I'm gonna do my thing over here
But yeah
It's scary when you meet a person
That like legitimately won't play
Like, that doesn't play
So, there are people like that out there
There's a lot of them out there
Too many
Yeah
Probably even more on the horizon
The way things are going, so
I don't know, man
You know
Smoke more weed
Yeah, you know
That's why, like
Even in some of these conversations
On these shows
Like, they get heated and crazy over
Fucking really something that
Quite honestly
Nobody fucking knows
Because if they did
We wouldn't be wasting our god damn time
Here talking to each other about it
You'd be out fucking doing it
You know, that would be that
I don't mind sharing of information
But when it becomes a
Fuck you and your way
And blah, blah, blah
It's like, well
If the guy's showing a successful
Garden harvest every fucking time
And he's doing it
Is that what's working?
Yeah, it's working
I mean, and
Most of us should know by now
And I'm growing in different situations
I have been
Progressing from one to another
From, you know, straight up DWC
Into Coco
And I've done some soils now
And, you know, eventually
I'll work into the organics
I'm doing some organics stuff in Coco
All earthy stuff, right?
Yeah
I've never seen springtails before in my life
And a whole bunch of those
That freaked me out at first
I was like, oh my god
What the fuck are these things?
They're so fast
Fucking rice shooting all over the place
Like popcorn
Yeah
And then I read about it
You want to do it
Yeah, I guess smiles
Happy 420 over there
Yeah, man
Finally got medical over there
Right on
Right on
Oh, I can't see chat
Oh
No YouTube
But I guess we're wrapping up
Bobby, you want to
Are you leaving?
Thanks, Bobby
Thanks, Bobby
We loved your singing debut
There's Nina, his chauffeur
Nina, Miss Nina
His caretaker
Say hi, Nina
Hi, Nina
Bye, Nina
Stage left, stage left
Right here
Yay, all right
Have a good evening, you kids
You know, sometimes
Sometimes they don't want to show themselves
Especially when they're really high
They're gonna know
All right, Bobby
Say goodbye, Bobby
Happy 420
Yay, Bobby
Happy 420, brother
Thanks for rocking tonight
Thanks, man, brother
Thanks for the licks
You know, I honestly thought that was empty
Really?
I totally forgot
I don't smoke that shit anyway, so
It's too much work
Wow, yeah
Nice and buttery, huh?
Right
I got one of those electronic little things, you know
With the little bomb
It's not that much work
And it really is worth it
Oh, the Puffco
Oh, the Peets
Yeah, the Puffco Peets
Oh, it's not a Puffco
It's the other one
Right
That's $300 still
They're all Puffcos to me
Yeah
There was 250 announced to me
All right
That's an easy way to offend half the people watching
Call by the right name
I don't dab, really, man
I mean, I will, but I won't go out of my way to do it
No
I grew up in an era where you weren't fucking hanging out
Mixing shit
No, man, you were
Me and my wife were at the smoke shop
And she's getting some vape thing
The non-smoke cigarettes
And I see the bong, you know, to smoke for dabs
And it's 250 bucks
And I'm like, oh, yeah
And she's like, really, do you need another fucking bong?
And she's like, why is this thing 250 bucks?
And I had to explain to her
And so she's like, oh, yeah, you should be there
And she still was like, I have no idea what you mean
But no, she knew that it was an important thing
After I told her it's not just a regular bong and stuff
Because, you know, to her it looked like, man, you got lots of bongs
What's wrong with you?
Right
It's the glass type
The glass type
Well, that used to be what freaking people who had too much money laying around
Would spend their money on
Was expensive glass pieces
Yeah
Like, what am I going to do with this money?
None of mine are expensive
On my glass
I just acquired four new glass bongs for my brother
Because
Three dollars
Three dollars at the head shop
Yeah, they're cheap
There you go
Yeah
Yeah, that's the way to go
Because you are going to drop that bitch
Man, when I was in Jamaica, you could buy pieces all over the place
For fucking two bucks
Sure
Yeah
Glass everywhere
Of course, it was made out of special volcanic glass
That had to be mined out of swimming, free diving
30 feet down to get it, chip it out
That was what they were selling, you know
You know, to make it more
Sounds sustainable there
A little bit more money, more money
Yeah
It's our money
The volcanic glass is called obsidian
Yeah
Yeah
I've been to an obsidian float
I think it was in Missouri, but it was crazy, man
It was cool
Yeah, it seems like that would be more durable than normal glass
What do you think? I don't know
No, because it shatters really easily
Very brittle, huh?
It's sharp, which is why it was popularized
But it shatters easily, which is also why it was popular
Because you can make the arrowheads with a harder rock
You just kind of pound down the edges
And it will chip into a nice razor edge
Yeah, yeah
I saw a show where a guy showed how to make an arrowhead
And you wouldn't believe how fast they do it
I was just blown away
I was like, holy shit
And they do it, you know, of course, with another harder rock
And it's just bang, bang, bang, bang
He looks at it real close and sees where to hit it for the arrowhead
He sees where to hit it first
And then, man, he has at it
And it's weird how awesome it was
It was pretty interesting
It's an art form
Yeah, oh yeah, for sure
Big time
Here, I got another joint
Oh my god, it's like my 20th joint today
Hey, that's not that bad
You got to smoke 420
I know
I've only eaten once
Oh man
Have you done anything stupid to smoke at 420 on 420 before?
You ever ditched out of like a job or an appointment or anything?
Yeah, today
I ran on
That's great
Yes, I did actually
I don't know why I say it's on the table
Or get in trouble for it
He's going to lose his position
Yeah, on the stage
Shh, don't say anything
Totally
The funny part was that I ended up having
I was supposed to get my kids every Wednesday
And I said I'll get them Thursday instead
You know, I got something important to do
None of your fucking business
And then, yeah, on my way here
I get a phone call from the school nurse
To inform me that my youngest daughter is in there
And she's had a cough for the past two days
That I knew nothing about
And that they want her out of there now
Because they can't get a hold of mom
Oh no
Can you pick them up as I'm coming here to practice and stuff
And I'm like, of course, I mean
Well, you can't say no
I could not do that
So I was laughing to myself
I'm like, so I lied to get out of being with them
For a few hours today
Which I'll see them tomorrow anyways
And here I am, I ended up picking up one half of them
But actually I was kind of glad
Because Sammy's pretty funny, man
Yeah, she likes to hang out
She likes the music, she's the musician
That's the one that jumped up and rocked to the hardcore punk
Cool
Yeah
Well, I raised them since they were babies
So yeah, we rocked out every morning
We turned on the music real loud
And then we danced around, swinging around
Sir, I got this one, I'll finish this
Right on, brother
Yeah, so
Those are those special moments in time
That you're gonna remember
When you're fucking 80 years old
You're gonna be looking back going
Oh man, I remember that so well
I know, I actually got some video of a few of them too
We actually, I was
Larry's old band
He gave me a CD, it just came out
They just came out with a new CD
So I popped it in
Cool
And whatever reason, I had my phone going
You had some pretty hopped up shit on there
Yeah, it's pretty heavy duty
The lyrics are probably not the best for kids
But, you know, they're two and three, four years old
It was in a dark time
Yeah
Hundred dollar habit was the name of the band
You could figure it out from there
Oh boy, yes
It's pretty cool though
That's where all the art really is
Is that where the
One Two Westport is from?
No, no, no
We recorded that
You know, me and Tony
No, we just put that one in there
Yeah
We were talking together
He's like, I have an idea for Chad Westport
I'm like, oh man, yeah, let's do this
Finally, dude
We've been fucking talking about it
I just don't know why we never
It was just kind of like in a shuffle or something
Like we're getting on to something else
And then all of a sudden
And we would have played it tonight
I wanted to play it
But the thing is, is Bobby doesn't know it
That's me playing bass
And, you know
If he didn't
I don't even think he's heard it
But maybe a couple of times
That's the thing with him, you know
Or if he even paid attention, so
I could show him though
Because it's not that difficult
Right
But it's really fun
I love listening to that one
I didn't even think about that
We should have
Oh yeah, that's the best one
We should have done that one
We could have done the Chad Westport song
I actually loaded that up to get it
Put it out
It's got Groucho on the cover
I'm all right on it
You should get Groucho
My Groucho dummy
From when I was a kid
Of Anchor Liquor style
It's a kind of weird
Weird looking thing
Dude, he's hanging out on the couch right now
I mean, I should
I'll go get you up there and show you
Yeah, so
He's laying back on the couch like this, man
He's dressed in
He actually bought clothes for this thing, man
Like little kids
Fucking clothes
It's like a mascot
He's got different outfits, man
He's got like 8 or 9 outfits
Damn
He's got a Katakonic shirt sometimes
It's fucking hilarious
I'll come over and see him
He's changed, you know
I think right now he's kind of in that
The early grunge stages
You know, with the Kurt Cobain
Kurt Cobain shirt
Yeah, he's got that Kurt Cobain shirt
He's got flannel
He's got like 4 outfits maybe
Not 9
Not that fucking crazy
Oh wow
That's cool, man
That's crazy
His head got bashed in a little bit
Yeah
He lost his mind
Took a header down the stairs
Yeah
Well, I've had this guy since I was, you know, like 9 or something
So
Wow
And I found it in the garbage at my parents' house one day
And I was like, shit, man
There's Groucho
So I pulled him out
And all his clothes were gone
He used to have a tuxedo
And he was, you know, fucking dressed to the nines
But I don't know how he got so destroyed
Bob, there's someone asking
How many outfits does Bob have?
You're treating me poorly
Zero
All right, all right
You gotta leave him in different places of the house
Like leave him like in the closet when you open it
And then like one morning he's sitting on the toilet
And next morning he's in the kitchen
I don't know about the toilet
But I do move him around for sure
Yeah
But if he was ever in the toilet, yeah, he'd have another hole in his head
I'd probably freak out and smash him
Probably fuck my hand up
It scares some people
They turn around
Yeah
Oh, wow, what the fuck
Especially when they're high
It's pretty funny
Especially when they're high and not expecting it
It's like, I just saw something
That's what Bob does
I covered Bob up just to be nice for people
Everybody's like, what's up with Bob back there?
You got one back there, don't you?
Yeah
Yeah
Cool
To bring him out, say hi
What's up, Bob?
We played a show in Kansas City
Tony didn't come with us, me and Bobby went
And I brought this thing with me
And I brought him in the truck stops
And I took pictures of him on like the giant dinosaur at the gas station
People were looking at me like, what the fuck
I put him in the basket with all these other stuffed animals
And I took a picture and put a little caption that he was having an orgy and shit
And then I thought, I better get him out of there
Because he's so dirty, they're gonna make me buy the other stuffed animals that he touched and shit
I know
Yeah
Where did this doll touch you?
Huh?
Nevermind
Oh, man
That's a creepy, creepy
Tony's having too much fun with him, dude
Just had to go there, Chad, I mean, really?
My cats don't like him
Oh, right on
This is getting weird, I'm playing with a doll now, man
I can't mess with him as much as Tony is right now
Okay, thanks guys, now I'm gonna have nightmare
As long as he stays here, I'm cool with that
I wouldn't have him in the fucking car with me
He can't take you home
Have any of you guys seen that horror movie, Magic?
Not me, no
The guy is a ventriloquist, you know, and he's like down in the dumps and he's going crazy
And he's doing the circuit, touring around at the clubs
And the dummy starts talking to him through the box
Let me out of this fucking box
And, you know, it's telling him to kill people and shit
It's pretty hilarious
If you go that dark, man, uh-oh
It's a pretty funny movie, it's called Magic
I mean, there's probably a million movies, but it's probably like a mid-70s thing
Horror movie
It was pretty fucking funny
But when you're a kid, you're scared out of your mind, you know
I'm like, holy shit, I got one of those things at home
I'm thinking of this thing, you know
Now he's got a hole in his head to make sure he couldn't get it on
I should've known
I saw somebody in chat, Rob was mentioning he saw Tales from the Crypts with one of the ventriloquist dolls
And I vaguely remember that one, but yeah, that sticks out
I love the old Tales from the Crypts
And Twilight Zone, too
A ventriloquist doll into one of those type of things, it really makes it extra fucked up and creepy
Trilogy with Tara, I just a little bit above your time in that chat
But Trilogy of Tara was pretty good, do you remember that?
No, I don't
It was from the 70s, it was like three, I forgot her name, she was in all three of the movies
It was really good
But the last episode, the last movie
It was like three separate movies and one
And the last one was, she had, someone sent her this like wooden doll
Like the marionette type feels
He had teeth and shit, he was like a little spear
Like a pygmy, those cannibal guys, right?
And it had like this little necklace on it, it says do not remove this necklace
Because if you do, you know, bad things are gonna happen
And she gets in this fight with her mom on the telephone
She slams the thing down and goes to take a shower
And of course the necklace falls off the thing
While she's in the shower
And then he goes and gets his little spear and he starts stabbing, you know, chasing his chick around the house
Early shades of Chucky
It scared the shit out of me, man
And it came out like 73, 74, man
I remember seeing it straight up when I was like 6, 7
And it was like, fuck, every little
I love seeing those now
You know, a lot of people look at those B movie horror movies just to laugh at them
But I like to look at them to laugh at them
But also the ones that really scared me
Like when I was a kid, how ridiculous they really were
It's even funnier, you know
Like I was actually scared
Dude, like I don't know if you guys remember Chud
The cannibalistic human underground dweller
Oh man, that was like so bad but scary at the time
Chud was one of Grant's favorites, of course
Right, Grant, oh man
One day you might meet him
Oh, he lives in Portland
Yeah
Really?
He's probably watching right now, what's up Grant?
Is he?
Yeah, I told him
Oh, did you?
He did text me the other day
Yeah
What's up Grant?
Fright night, Mark G in the chat mentioning fright night, yep
That was with Elvira, wasn't it?
Wasn't that with Elvira?
What was, Grain?
Yeah
He's got this song called Grain, you could tell him about Grain
About the people that would like try to get into the country
And they would hide in the grain cars
You know, this is an old song, it's not so hard now
But in the trains, you know, and they have all this grain
And as they'd be riding along, they would shuffle down into it and suffocate
And then no one would notice
And then they would get processed at a breakfast food place
And get put into some breakfast bars
And then you'd come full circle when the guy's mother eats some of it
And she turns into a cannibal and all this, you know
That's all within like a one and a half minute punk song
One and a half, forty-two seconds
God check cat
Oh yeah, it's called Grain
Grain's a trip, man, I love him
That was the rock and roll abortions, they were fucking badass
Oh, two more
So badass
Yeah, rock and roll abortions
Graham was the singer
So what, you guys, what's your name?
Yeah, that was shocking
Rock and roll abortions, it was like, oh, you guys got a banner? Yes, we do
Do you guys have a banner?
A big fucking banner
Abortion is a big word when you put in big letters, man
Yeah, it does take a lot of long, big words
Yeah, they didn't like that, so they had to shorten them down to RRA
Abs
No, we still brought the big banner
We still would bring the big banner
I had this work jacket that the guys in the band, they all made one
And they made me one, and it was just stenciled on the back with army letters
Rock and roll abortions on white paint with a black jacket
And I worked at this music store and I'd wear it there
And then one day, like two days into having the jacket, my boss is like
Hey man, do you mind if you don't wear that jacket to work?
This was back in the 80s, so you could imagine
No, it wasn't the 80s
No, it was later
No, Grant was born in the 80s, man
He's young, he's like
So it's 90s
Yeah, late 90s, early 2000s
You didn't have a job then
Yeah, no, I did
What was that? You went pro?
No, that was at a different job that I got fired from
And I said that was it, I'm never fucking working again
What's the best reason you've been fired for, Larry?
I've only been fired once, it was my very first job, which I had illegally
Because I was too young, but I lied
I've gotten fired from every fucking job I've had, and I've had thousands of them
Oh no
Have you ever had any epic, like, I quit, fuck you, fuck you, you're cool, fuck you, I'm out?
Yeah
I told off one guy at a corporate place when I got, as I was getting fired
I gave him a good earful, and it was great because I had a little fucking tape recorder in my pocket
And I recorded the whole thing
But no, I've gotten fired literally from every job that I've ever had
I've never had the opportunity to quit
Damn, alright
Larry, you're not part of the team, you're not hired
I'm hired, I'm just fired
You're fired
You're in transition, yeah, you're in transition
If you were a lifeguard, would you be fired?
If you were a lifeguard, could you be a lifeguard?
Yeah, that's not so hard
My brother was a lifeguard for a couple years, man
Man, what a job that is, holy, I can't get into it, but I would do that
If I was younger, now I wouldn't do it
Now you go to jail
No, fuck you
Too funny
But that's the plus I have young kids for me, you know
Yeah
Hang out
I wouldn't go to jail, it would just be questionable
I'd wear the big sunglasses
Like I got with the mirrors on them, so no one could see, all they see is their face and my fucking lenses
Oh yeah, the mirrored sunglasses from the 80s
I still wear them, bro
I still wear them
A.B. Reduce, A.B. Reduce for life
I wear them forever, man
Yeah
And Top Gun is coming back, so you know what, they might be cycling through the fashion cycle too
They will be
They will be, oh shit
You know it
Hey man, I hope you saved your Z Cabarichis, because you know they're coming back
Blue blocker
Those MC Hammer pants
Oh yeah
I think a blue blocker, they used to have the commercials for those
Those were like the big ones that you put over, like the full wraparound glasses
Yeah
Those were sick
You know, I'm noticing now, like our trends, they're happening nowadays
Because now that I have kids, I'm kind of being, well I have to be there if they show me the stuff, what they want to wear, you know
And I'm looking around and I see all these girls are still wearing these, like the older girls, they're still wearing the skinny jeans or whatever they call them, right
So are the dudes
More or less just that stretchy material
Yeah, yeah
And my daughter's like, I want some new jeans, so I'm thinking, okay well, you know, I guess she's like, I want the ones with the holes in them, okay
So I picked out a pair and I showed her and she's like, oh no, not those
I'm like, what do you mean, these are like, I see everybody's wearing these, she's like, yeah, no
What kind of holes?
No, she goes, I go, so the holes ain't right, no, that's fine, she says it's the style of pants, that's not right
So the style of pants is like more of the 90s stuff, it's baggier
Yes
You know, a bigger, the leg is straight leg down, it's not tapered
And I'm like, wow man, I saved some of my jeans from 92 and shit, I got them, man
I never changed, man, I never changed
I just can't fit mine anymore
I got this shirt that my wife bought me on my 30th birthday, which was definitely in the fucking 90s
And it was funny, because Tony just spotted it today in the basement
It's like the Deftones and STP when they were big, man
That's when this shirt, that's when she bought me this shirt
Yeah
It's got these orange stripes, it's like a really flashy gas station worker or something
I know, it's 76, Union 76, man
Right, yeah, that's exactly it
So yeah, I'm down with that shit, if it comes back, I got a shirt
Cool
Sell it to a hipster for 200 bucks
Yeah, that's a good idea
I only wore it for 25 years, man
Nice, yes, they brought back the slick skateboards, they did
New Deal pants, Simple Shoes, the whole outfit from 94
Now you just have to do an Olly Impossible like Ed Templeton from Useless Wooden Toys, which was a rad movie
I mean, I still wear flannels and t-shirts, I mean, I've always had
Well, that's nothing that's always been comfortable
But when the 90s came, I was all of a sudden super hip
Sure
I stopped wearing flannels, I just started wearing smudge
I had this old tore up like Kojak leather jacket, it was like tan and I'd wear it
And I remember this guy making fun of me, I was at some disco or something, some club around here
And I remember then Kurt Cobain becoming famous and the same exact guy that was cutting me down was like,
Hey man, that's a cool fucking jacket
And I'm thinking this motherfucker told me you look like an idiot, where'd you get that, which mom did you, you know
And then it was cool all of a sudden, I was like, fuck, I got like four of these jackets, all different shades of brown, you know
From shit that was tight
Everybody starts shopping at the thrift store then, you're like, damn dude, there goes my line for fucking hookups
Yeah, no, I just had a bunch of like, you know, it was all my grandfather's stuff
Every time one of my grandfathers died, I would end up with all this shit
Bill Cosby sweaters and shit
Way earlier than that
That's his dad
That's our dads, that's our dads
My grandpa was like, fucking watch an episode of Kojak, that's what the jackets were
Dude, those sweaters were like 400 bucks back then, man
I can only imagine when they come back in the style, what they're gonna be, they're gonna be like two grand
They're gonna be ridiculous, I think they already came back in the form of the ugly Christmas sweater
Yeah, and those things are just as ugly too
Bill Cosby's sweaters are shit
I mean, you know, I don't want to offend any Cosby fans out there
I want to give a blanket apology for Bill's victims
On behalf of Bill's family and his estate
I'm not gonna apologize for the crime
Yeah
Yeah, was he getting back in there or what?
Fuck, it's midnight already?
We're here until the end of 420, at least in our time
Yeah, but you guys are rock stars, you're always supposed to ring it out though
Ring it till it's done
The last person there
And you're on the West Coast too, right, Ken?
I'm on the West Coast, I'm in Washington
I'm in Mountain Standard
Okay, okay, you're in the middle
Wow, it's always an hour
We're hitting all the zones, man
East, west, middle
There was no way I was gonna jump off, man
This is just way too much fun
Nice
Hell yeah
Yeah, this is what, probably your fifth visit now?
I think this is the first time on the FCP channel
But on FCP02, we've had like four?
Yeah, we've done
Four jams so far?
Sweet
Yeah, I think maybe three or four times
And it's cool too, Ken, because the last time they came on, they had a new album that they were playing
And then before that, they were playing other material as well
So you guys have actually built kind of like a good resume or repertoire, whatever
Yeah
You've got three albums up there now
Well, the first time, it was so funny because I talked to you about getting on the show a long time ago
We were just talking, I think, in general just about how to do it
Or, you know, we were in your house
And then one day, I just popped in the chat, was waiting for Bobby to show up for practice
And then Peter was like, hey, you guys wanna play a few songs on one of our shows?
And I was like, alright, sure, when?
He goes, like, in about, I don't know, half hour?
Yeah, what?
Alright, let me ask these guys
And they're like, yeah, alright
So, you know, we jumped on, we figured we were gonna just do like two or three songs, see you later
Whatever
No, it's two hours and we're still there
And I think I looked at you, I'm like
This is malarkey
Alright, when's the show?
I asked you to come on my show
You are the show
First
Oh, shit
Bullshit, this is bullshit
I asked you to come on to my show first
Oh my God, you guys are wrestling
He just asked me, he just asked me, like, next day, that fucking, oh
He asked me to come on to Uno
They like butter
Not to zero two
No, no, we don't do zero two no more, we're zero one
I see how it is, man
Prime time
We don't fuck around on the zero two channel, that's for those amateur people now, man
Fuck that shit, man
Nothing's beneath me, brother
I'm sorry to hear that, I hope you fix it
Chris, I got you
Hey, Chris
What?
Squirrel is their manager
Their manager?
Chris was on, he's got a squirrel that's hunting him
So, you know
Squirrels after him
Did you see the squirrel? Here we go, show the, here, this is the squirrel that's tormenting me
He's still at you, huh?
Oh my God, he's huge
That thing's like dead
Holy shit
No, he's fucking out of it
Did he get electrocuted?
No
Is he stoned?
Is he sleeping?
You blowing bong hits at him, giving him an edible?
He is out there
He's out there waiting for me to leave
That's like right in the middle of my yard, not in the middle of my yard, but like
Dude, I'd get a fucking wrist rocket and I'd see if you're moving
He's watching
You know, all you can get the rubber, they have the rubber balls
That ain't cool
Hey man, you and your rubber balls stay out of this
Exactly
You tell him
No, he's watching me, see that eye? See that eye, he's looking
He's watching for me to leave
So he goes to my yard and looks for food
Hey, leave your phone out there and leave
Let's see if he comes down
That is crazy
Is he sleeping or is he dead? What is the fucking story?
He's eating his garden up, man
I do feed him edibles every once in a while, so
That might be the reason why he's up there, but
Allegedly
Allegedly
Allegedly, yeah
That is fucking great
I don't want Peeta coming after me for getting squirrels high
Call him Peeta
The edibles, he probably will come back for more
And I'm not Bostonian, so I'm not saying Peter
I'm saying Peeta
People for the ethical treatment of animals
Yes, not Peter, Peeta
Peeta
Here's a bud, yeah
Oh nice
Is that yours?
Yeah
Fucking gorgeous
That thing is adding trichomes onto it too
That's a couple weeks ago, it's gonna get pulled next week
I love when those leaves tackle like that because of all the trichomes on it
What is that?
It's a Kool-Aid man from B-Leaf Cannabis
Kool-Aid
Sent me out a 10-pack and I popped two of them
What are we sniffing off of it?
Fruit punch, like super strong fruit punch
Hey Kool-Aid!
Yes, Kool-Aid man
Bust through the wall
What's that?
Bust through that wall, wreck your house
Except he's a big thing, a jar filled with bugs instead of Kool-Aid
I remember that commercially, yeah
That's always one of my favorite Yo Mama jokes
It's like every time I see Yo Mama wear a red dress
I expect her to bounce through the wall and yell Kool-Aid!
Also, he's got a gun instead
Solid gun
That squirrel is not gonna come in here in my house, no
Dude
You ever been shot with salt rocks before?
Yes
I've been like with the fucking buckshot salt rocks
That fucking hurts
He's gonna be fucked up
Riding away from the girlfriend's house as fast as I could
As I heard the chk chk chk chk
Oh shit!
Yeah, on our dirt bikes the farmers didn't dig it man
you got nangle. Hold for a
minute. Shooter yes I nowhere.
Myself no you know. If this
hurt. Feelthe being right now
t's just burns drop it up in
logistic we'd be in them
upmented.creation to nothing is
. I got your penetration right
here. Penetration. Carrero you
should talk to Larry Helping out
so that joining. This summer
trying to figure out who woos
like to be. Stars. R. skier
Wacker Steph. That you know
it's the nation where you know
I know what it did to that
early version of those things, man, and it would kill the shit out of them for a couple
years, but like in the third summer, it didn't, it literally didn't hurt a fly. So it's fucking
lost power, but if they have a new one.
Yeah, it's a 3.0 version.
I would get one because it is fun to shoot them with that soft gun, man. It's really
amazing. It feels, you know, like you could take the wings off the fly or something.
Oh, dude, they do.
Yeah.
So remember, the Guerrero Gros show on the cup of a cup of coffee, buy me a cup of coffee,
whatever the hell the thing is. If you support me, I'm going to buy one of those live action
cams and I'm going to strap it onto here.
Nice.
Okay. And I will, I will strap it on here and I'll make a compilation of videos of me
shooting, shooting the mods.
No.
I'm not getting in part of that, man.
I don't want to see that.
Faces of death for the bugs.
For real, man. You remember faces of death. I got fucking PTSD from watching that shit
as a kid.
That was taken by a monkey, dude. How about it? Whacking that monkey in the head.
Yes. I remember that one actually. They're all, ah, ah, ah.
I know, the bug idea.
You hit them off of their hearts. I'm like, I'm yelling, I'm yelling at the screen.
That was the only real thing in that whole movie.
Stop doing that!
Yeah. Yeah.
It's a bearish action set break.
Dude, there were like, there were like four of them. There were five of them. One of my
favorites. Well, not my favorite. So one that I fucking vividly flash in my head, but the,
and you wonder how this was not real. Uh, but like the guy in the parachute down in
Florida who like veered off course and landed in the gator farm.
Oh, dude. Like what? Yeah.
Well, you know what?
Land in the middle of a gator farm.
It was fucked up though, Chad. Cause I saw him when I was a kid out of order. So I don't
know the plot fully, you know.
There is a plot. It's just gruesome shit.
And then I saw three. So I don't know what's going on.
No, there's no plot.
It might as well have been a porn because the way it was treated was like pornography.
It was snarky.
I don't think he understanding what movies were, what show we're talking about.
There's, it's absolutely no plot to it.
It's just cut scenes.
It's just, it's violence. It's just the one that fucked me up was the one that guy that
fucking shot himself in the head.
With the roll of dimes.
With the roll of dimes in the shack.
No, no.
The Texas Senator. Yeah. That was my bro.
I was a kid and watching TV at home, stayed sick from school that day.
Yeah. That's where he got in his mouth.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
When I was a kid, I fucking saw that shit.
He was going down for something. I forgot what it was.
That was crazy.
When you see a guy's head go, whoosh.
Yeah. That's fucked up.
So I'm glad we're all fucking.
That's kind of crazy that we're all like scarred in that way.
I've never like really talked about that with people.
It was like four people who all know exactly what I'm talking about.
When the guy falls and fucking gets eaten, he's like, you know, in the Everglades or something.
That's fucked up.
And the thing just quickly gets him.
Yeah. You think it's fake?
I don't know.
The Challenger explosion.
The Challenger explosion.
I was in third grade.
I was in third grade in Mrs. Washington's class.
We were watching that shit.
First teacher in space.
Oh yeah. Look at it go. Look at it go.
Wait. What's that? Why is that coming off?
What's going on?
Netflix did a really interesting documentary about that lately.
Yeah. I saw that, Chad.
Yeah.
I saw that one.
Netflix did a really interesting documentary.
Very interesting.
Me and my brother, I was out of school and my brother was still in high school.
And we talked my mom into letting him stay home because it was his birthday.
It was January 28th and we're sitting there getting high.
We're going to watch the thing take off.
We're making jokes about how high they're going to be and we're up so high.
And then all of a sudden, boom.
We're looking at each other and it was like, you know, like you're saying, the reaction in Mrs. Washington's classroom.
Yeah.
Holy fuck, man.
Did that just really happen?
When they pan over to the crowd and the parents and all that, they're like, what just happened?
You know, that look. You see the look set in on their face of what they just saw.
Yeah.
That's not supposed to happen. What the hell is going on?
You know who was supposed to be in there?
You know who was supposed to be in that fucking Challenger?
Elon Musk.
No. No.
Even more towards kids.
Big Bird was supposed to be in the fucking Challenger.
That would have been really.
Can you imagine if Big Bird would have been in the fucking Challenger?
It would have been over for us.
Yeah.
I was already out of high school, dude.
That would have been fine.
You on the other hand, you would have been really fucked up.
Oh, stop.
Yeah, that was fucked up.
1985?
You were already out of high school? Jesus Christ, you're old.
I graduated in 85.
So it was maybe like 86 or 87.
I'm guessing.
I'm guessing.
That's time to reach 18.
You could be right, bro.
I graduated in 85 myself, guys.
Okay.
We're all in the same train.
Weed.
That is fucking tight, man.
Isn't that beautiful?
I love the long skinny leaves, man.
I got the big fat indica ones.
I'm not complaining.
This one had two phenos.
This one was kind of a skinny thin leaf.
And then there is another one that had really wide leaves.
Cool.
So, yeah.
They'll be harvested soon.
Nice.
Good stuff.
They'll be harvested soon.
I'm going to take some more pictures.
It's like trichomes on trichomes.
It's crazy now.
Yeah, it looks like that.
I love that.
Nice.
Are you going to turn that into hash, Chad?
No.
I mean, the extra leaf and stuff, yeah, I'll do that for bubble hash.
But the actual buds itself, I'll enjoy that as flour.
Right on.
Yeah.
Are you going to leave the midnight chow turning into a pumpkin?
Yeah.
Nope.
I got to take care of some things.
I've actually pretty much have been on here since 1230 this morning or afternoon.
Nice.
Started out with the Brian and Marco show and then popped in.
I know.
I heard it was Christmas morning, man.
Yeah.
I've been here since 9 o'clock in the morning and then went swimming.
Yeah.
Where were you?
I didn't see you for like the last three hours, buddy.
I was swimming, man.
Where do you swim?
YMCA.
How do you expect me to stay in this awesome shape if I'm not swimming?
I don't know, man.
I don't know.
But you got it.
You got to keep on that shit.
Fucking Oli Band, man.
That snack shape.
Your top 3% in Oli Band.
Still waiting for my sponsors and my sponsors to come.
Yeah.
My sponsors and my snacking.
I will be accepting all sponsors.
Provide all my snacks.
Doritos.
And me sugar.
Snickers.
And the offers.
Dude.
The offers are still out there.
You need to make up a shirt.
The offers are still out there.
I will smoke your cannabis.
I will smoke your cannabis.
And I will give you a review of it.
Shout out to Slim Jims.
Shout out to Cheeto.
I need a half ounce.
Give me your cannabis.
I will sacrifice and smoke your cannabis up.
I love tonight.
I loved it all.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And thank you.
Right on, Ken.
Thank you, too.
You're welcome.
Are we saying what you want to say?
Are we saying we should sign off now, Ken?
Yeah.
I think Chad needs to go anyways.
Chad, you need to cut loose, right?
I want to cut loose.
Chris can probably take over the reins.
I'm good because I got to leave, man.
I got an hour drive home.
I got to feed the plants.
Thank you guys again for doing the album.
Playing that.
Giving us the release there.
Thanks for having us.
Going on past that, too.
The things are going to be a lot tighter soon in the future there.
Very much so.
If you ever want to come on to the Dose,
you know what I mean?
You're always welcome to come on to Dose
and play anytime.
I know that I do my show a little early and shit.
And you guys are probably still sleeping.
I know how you guys are.
How early?
I'm sleeping.
He's not.
He goes to bed early and he's up early.
East Coast time, it would be probably a year or two.
Probably 12 to 3, 12 to 6.
Oh shit, dude.
I'm up.
That's what I'm saying.
I'm not that much.
You're talking 12 to 6.
Maybe hot enough coffee to get into the blood system
to wake you up.
Yeah.
Here's a note for Stoney.
Beware of Groucho on the way home.
I know.
I keep looking and making sure he ain't fucking moved yet.
You got to reach out to him.
You got to reach for your seatbelt and get a little hand.
I put his hand under his ass so he can't move.
If he moves, I'll see that hand come out.
So I make him sit on his hands when he's near me.
I don't trust him.
He's sneaky, man.
Sounds like a strip club.
And remember, watch the Guerrero Groucho on the Dose.
Cool.
And the Perfectly Imperfect Groucho.
And the Perfectly Imperfect Groucho.
And the Perfectly Imperfect Groucho.
And the Perfectly Imperfect Groucho.
And the Perfectly Imperfect Groucho.
And the Perfectly Imperfect Groucho.
Cool.
Nice.
Don't forget the Catachronic Show.
We used to have the Catachronic overlay in here, but it's gone.
Oh, no.
I know.
Are you sure?
Hey, my computer's fucked up, but I'll figure out a way to email you something.
I have some pictures of that painting and stuff.
Cool.
Nice.
Yeah.
Nice.
All right, well, it's been a good night.
Peace out, guys.
Awesome.
Happy 420, everybody.
Everyone that came out and supported and watched and enjoyed it.
Hopefully, you just enjoyed it, because that's all we're doing.
We're just having fun.
You still got 53 people, man.
Wow.
At this time of night?
I know.
That's crazy.
You guys were fantastic.
That's why they're here.
I hope you all have fun.
I like to party, man.
I like to have fun.
Those are words to live by right there.
I like to party.
I try not to take anything too serious.
A little insight into my evening this evening.
When I was swimming, my lungs were kind of hurting a little bit.
I smoked a marker-sized joint.
It was a big joint.
It was a big joint.
It was a big joint.
It was a big joint.
It was a big joint.
It was a marker-sized joint.
It was a big joint.
I do that, too.
It gets kind of harsh and rough at the end, but I still do it.
Yeah.
Yeah, I solve it.
Do the hair toss.
Get the SCP.
Cool, man.
Nice shirt.
Available on the Dagga.Garden website.
All I see.
I didn't see it.
Does that have to do with your stuff?
I'm a gentleman.
I'm a sharer.
That's my favorite.
All right, guys.
I'm going.
Take care.
Peace out, Ken.
Have a good night.
Later, Stoney.
Later, Larry.
You guys rock.
Thank you.
Peace out.
We'll get that.
Is Elka still there?
Get rid of me, Jeff.
Is Elka still in the background?
He just lives in the background.
Elka just lives in the background.
He is.
While I'm leaving, you can have fun.
You close it down.
No, no, no.
Let's end it.
All right.
I'll hit that broadcast.
Everybody in chat, thanks for hanging out all day with Christopher Guerrero.
Guerrero grows.
With London doing the cannabis contest and rooftop swag conversation.
Remember me and Katachronic.
More importantly, you guys.
Thank you for making this possible.
We're going to end the night.
