Two or three of you were on a panel at the Emerald Cup just a few months ago, where Richard Mendelson
was speaking on cannabis appellations, and he said that it's almost like mining for gold.
So it's not enough to find the gold, whatever that is, so to speak, when we're talking about cannabis,
but to be able to mine it right. Those were words that I remember saying, I have rough notes.
And in thinking about that, you can see that we're talking about science in so many different ways,
the cultivars, the practices, and I started to read Appalachian Napa Valley, Richard Mendelson's
book, and there's a wonderful quote at the beginning. So before we go anywhere else, I just
think if we listened to these words here that he opened his book with, it's a Robert Louis Stevenson
quote, and it's very much a description about wine and how wine is like mining. But if we think
about cannabis cultivation, I think very much they're a lot of the same things here. So this
is from The Rich California Earth, and the quote is, the beginning of vine planting is like the
beginning of mining for precious metals. The wine grower also prospects one corner of the land is
another, tried with one kind of grape after another. This is the failure, that's better, a third is best.
So bit by bit, they grow up for their clover show and their feet, those loads and pockets of earth,
more precious than the precious ores that yield inevitable fragrance and soft fire, those virtuous
finances where the soil is sublimated under the sun and stars to something finer, and where the
wine is bottled poetry. These lie undiscovered chaparral conceals, thicket embowers them, and the
miner chips the rock and wanders further, and the grizzly muses undisturbed. But they bide their hour
awaiting their Columbus and major nurtures nurses and prepares them. The snack of California earth
shall linger on the palate of your grandson, Robert Louis Stevenson from the Silverado squatter. So if
we think about how this is very much a science, and that gold is not enough, but being able to mine it
right, I'd love to hand this over to Max Montrose and he'll lead us in a presentation. Max, please
take it away. Thank you so much. I've been really excited to see cannabis appellations become
a thing for many years now, and it is going to help family farmers in the Emerald Triangle who
deserve to prove that their cannabis is special. And so how we do that is going to be really
interesting. And I think cannabis psalms can actually play a really big role in that. And so
you know, a cannabis sommelier is pretty darn new. And so I just want to briefly explain what it is
and what we do. And then of course, interact with other participants and answer any questions that
anyone may have. The first thing I'll say is, you know, us as the cannabis industry, we keep
alluding to this thing that we know about, which is this expertise, which is more than an expertise.
It's next level expert, which is a sommelier. But I have to tell you that the wine community,
it drives them crazy that we say cannabis sommelier and for many different reasons. And so
one thing that's true is this expertise does exist throughout many other industries. And so you have
wine sommeliers, you have beer cicerones, cheesemongers, coffee cuppers. And within the
Trichome Institute, when we were developing, how do you certify someone who's actually an expert
in how dynamic cannabis is and how complicated it is and what is it actually? We came up with
the term interpreting. And so for us, a cannabis psalm is an interpreter. And so what we're doing
is we are interpreting terpenes. And we're not just trying to pretend like we're gas chromatography
and if we're detecting linalool versus mercine, we're actually with the trigeminal nerve of your
face, you can detect if these varietals are either stimulating, sedative, or actually in between that
spectrum. Cannabis isn't one or the either. It's a massive spectrum with multiples in between,
as we all know. And so what cannabis psalms do is, well, it's actually very similar to a wine
psalm, what interpreters do, because cannabis truly does have an appellation. It has terroir.
It has typicity, vintages, historic family farmers, pairings, tastings, and so much more.
It's probably closer, cannabis and wine, than cannabis is to beer or coffee or cheese or any
of those other things. And so that's why it's meaningful that there's such a thing as a cannabis
psalm or an interpreter. And there's some really big differences at the same time.
You know, one of the biggest differences is the wine industry is thousands of years old,
and the cannabis industry was born yesterday. And because of that, there's tons of problems,
such as the strain name dilemma, even the speciation dilemma, the fact that our industry
thinks that it's indica or sativa, when it's neither. That's a big deal. Another huge difference
is, you know, grapes is a perennial fruit that lives in the earth for decades. Cannabis is an
annual bush that lives one lifetime. And so I actually have more questions than I do answers
in terms of how are we as an industry going to prove that the geography of origin impacts the
cannabis in terms of where it's grown? How do we test for that? And that's something I would love
to dig into in this panel. And then I think at the end of the day, the most important thing,
and if you want to move through some of these slides, please feel free. I think one of the
most important differences between a wine expert and a cannabis expert is a wine expert is really
cool. Like it is really cool that you can do these incredible things, that you can taste that the
typicity of the Russian river in a Pinot Noir is unique due to the geographic origin. That's cool.
And being able to be a cannabis expert at a really high level is very cool too. But something
more important than cool is that it's important to have a cannabis expert in this time period
because even though we have legislatively mandated lab testing, and thank God that we do,
thank God we're testing for pesticides, microbials, and all the things, typically labs don't look for
what we consider to be quality. Typically labs don't look for the flush, insects, nutrient lock,
nutrient overdose, if the cannabis is ripe or not, or where on the spectrum between it being a
stimulating drug or a sedative substance, is it lying within? Labs don't really do that. And
because we have the strain name dilemma, because bud tenders aren't legislatively mandated to be
trained, licensed, or certified, like plumbers or people who cut hair or nails, it's critical
that we have people that have an ability to assess cannabis for its qualitative features,
what they are. So at the end of the day, consumers have, they know two things, not just a strain
name and a THC percentage, but is this product I'm about to consume okay for me to consume and at
what level? What level of equality is this and how do you know that? And after I consume it, what's it
going to do to me? Those are two really fundamental things and that's something that interpreting does.
We can help with that. So we've got courses, books, tools online, tons of stuff at the Trichome
Institute, but something that you're looking at, right, that was just shown below there, is
that's our objective analysis for grading cannabis quality for all of the things that labs typically
don't look for. And what a lot of those practices can do, especially when it comes to
typicity, is to note how and why cannabis varietals that are grown in specific regions in northern
California are important and deserve labeling that's more meaningful than cannabis that isn't.
To me, I believe that that has more to do with quality than it does with a strain name
or the genealogy of the plant. And I'm also not sure how we're going to prove
the geographical origin, but I'm really excited to find out and open it up to the other awesome
experts that we have on the panel. So thank you so much.
Thank you so much, Max. Thank you. It was so great to hear your perspective as the beginning.
And then just seguing right into how some of the things that cannabis sommeliers look at,
we have this set of regulations, draft set of regulations for appellation that address things
like cultivars, practices and standards. And so looking at the definition of cultivar here,
it's defined in section 9000A as it means a cultivated variety, trade designation or strain
of cannabis. I'd love to hand this to you, Eleanor, so that you could provide us with some of the
key issues or things that we should know about the state of cannabis genetics right now and how
it relates to even just cultivar selection and some of the concepts that a petition group might
have to look at when they're deciding what to do as it relates to an appellation petition.
So Max, you couldn't have teed me up better. I am so excited that you really were asking,
how can we really place these plants in the environment in which they're in?
So my training is in population genetics and my specialty has been in the intersection
between agriculture and medicinal plants. And so we see this intersection between the place
that plants are grown and the expression of the genes that are housed in their genomes across
all plants. And it's particularly powerful in our medicinal plants and our culinary plants that we
love so much. And so when we look at cannabis, we do have the stream name issue. We have a lot
of diversity that's out there, but we also know that we have plants that hold type. We have
characteristics that everyone can recognize. We have names that have historical meaning and deep
value because they point to the history of those plants as either a clone that's been held in
propagation for many years, or as in a family or lineage of plant that's been propagated and
routinely selected for those individuals that are displaying true to type. So this is what we see in
the evolution of all of our most special plants. The more we love them, the more diversity we seem
to have in them. So this can be seen in apples or grapes or any of our other really beloved plants.
And so with cannabis, we have a situation where the genetics has really been pushed forward in a
major way because of its history with prohibition. And so we have this irony that the prohibition
of cannabis has acted to really increase the diversity that we see within cannabis. And so we
have a really amazing opportunity now to step back and make definitions of those plants.
And so when we look at cultivar and one of the most important fundamentals of the entire
Appalachians program is the definition of cultivars, whether you're going to include them or
disclude them in your proposed Appalachian standard, you really need to have a definition
of what those plants are. And so fundamentally, when we do this with any plant, whether it's a new
species or it's a cultivar that we've developed from a population of plants, we do this through
definitions that fundamentally include herbaria, which press that plant and preserve the
definitional qualities of that plant. And so this is a really important fundamental first step,
is the defining of those plants. And so we've started Candor, which is an
herbarium that specializes in cannabis and really specializes in documenting the community's history
with these plants to the ownership of the community to those plants and also make those definitions
that make sense to the community that's been stewarding those plants from the beginning.
And so once you have those definitions, you can move into what we as geneticists call a G by E
experiment. So it's basically you take genetics and you put them in specific environments that
can either be the same environment or you can put the same plants across many different environments.
And in doing that type of experiment, you really link the expression of those genetics
and the outward phenotype with the place. So you take the genetics and the environment into
account so you can really understand how that environment is driving the expression. And so,
if you take some of your hazes that do really well in this beautiful and coastal area and they need
certain conditions and you move them to North Carolina or to Arizona, you're going to have very
different plants in their expression because of that interaction between their genetics and the
environment. And so these are things that we really, we know intuitively in our communities,
oh, this plant grows well here. Oh, this plant doesn't do well here. And it's taking that
information and then also going the next step and doing these experiments that really look
specifically at how the environment and the genetics interact with each other.
So I'm just going to take a second, Eleanor, to take us even deeper into some of the regulatory
material. In the initial statement of reasons, the CDFA noted that there is to some extent
an uncertainty within cannabis genetics, testing, just the ability to account for
what you have and to be able to establish that it is in fact what you think it is.
And the CDFA noted here that the freedom to require a prohibitive list of cultivars allows
the petitioners to self-define. And I'm wondering, you know, I've heard a few farmer groups talk
about this. I know Swami will have something to say about this as well. You know, it must,
it will be difficult for a petitioning group to decide upon or to come to consensus about even
what cultivars they want to include in their petition. And, you know, whether or not they're
going to exclude cultivars altogether at all will be a fundamental and difficult decision.
But, you know, what kinds of discussions have you had with some of the farmers or the stakeholder
groups that are interested in pursuing an appellation? And perhaps also I want to make
sure that I read the green box up so Swami can chime in as well on cultivar and, you know,
what different issues are farmers going to encounter here? You know, what is, you know,
maybe some concepts to keep in mind and, you know, maybe some glimmers of hope as well.
Yeah, I can quickly speak to that. Again, prohibition has left the scientific community
out of the loop for a very long time. And our agricultural sciences are deeply underinvested
at this moment. And so that's something that we see picking up pace as we have more and more
lifting of that veil of prohibition over the scientific aspects of cannabis, biology,
and agriculture. And so we will continue to learn more and more and have more and more tools,
scientific tools to understand not only diversity in our agricultural
propagules within cannabis, but also our global diversity of cannabis in general.
And then just to speak specifically about the regs and in making those decisions about cultivars to
include and not include, you know, it's sometimes always easier to point to the things you don't
want than to bring in the things you do. And then there are other groups who, instead of having a
very strong opinion about plants that should not be included, they have a lot of really amazing
plants that have been held in community, have been specifically selected to do well in their region.
And so those become natural plants to include. And they have a deep history, not only with the land
itself being selected on that land, but also with the communities that have taken care of those
plants as an annual and propagated them and moved them forward generation to generation.
So I know Swami has a lot to say about this, so I'm going to pass it over to him.
Well, we're talking about how the plant responds to the environment. And first of all, the cannabis
plant is known to be what they call a bioaccumulator or a phytoremediator. And just for you to know
that there was an experiment done after Chernobyl nuclear power plant, and they planted hemp all
around it because the hemp pulled the nuclear radiation out of the soil. And so basically,
you know, what they say in computers, garbage in, garbage out, it's the same with cannabis.
Whatever's in the soil, the plant is going to pull up a good bit of that. And that will be reflected
in the actual flavor and the end of the plant. And so that's what, you know, Max refers to as
insufficient flushing and so on. So, but there are ways of growing cannabis that
even flushing doesn't come in. And so what we're talking about is legacy growers here in the
mountains all over California, not just in the Memorial Triangle, but also down in Big Sur
and Santa Cruz and over in Grass Valley and up in the various mountains and so on. They all have
their own traditions. And as Eleanor was saying, over time, we've found in various areas, oh,
don't grow that one on the coast, you're going to get powdery mildew. And don't grow that one
over in Grass Valley, because it's so hot and dry and so on. And so, I mean, I'm not being a judge
in the Emerald Cup, I really encounter a lot of cannabis experts, people who know more than me in
so many ways. And so many people out there who, you know, who've been buyers and clubs who have
been growers for so many years or breeders, they can taste something and they say, oh, that's that
purple urchel is probably crossed with that train wreck or something like that. People have an
amazing ability through their nose and also through tasting the actual smoking to really
pinpoint. And I have another friend who's like a third generation been growing since he was 12.
And he can pretty much tell you almost which mountain it grew on from the shape of the bud
and from all of the ways that it's uniquely done. But remember, in the old, old days up here in the
mountains and all over, people were crawling under the bushes with maybe a bag of soil,
or maybe they just had the soil in the earth. And, you know, they were growing tiny plants and
they were saving their urine during the winter to use that for nitrogen fertilizer and so on.
So, these are the old techniques. Now, nobody uses those anymore, but that's where we come from.
But over time, people have really developed their techniques. And so, there's a science and
there's an art also. The science of it has to do with we're now moving into what we know as
regenerative agriculture and things known as the soil food web, living soil and things like this.
And so, when you are attempting to source virtually all of your ingredients, either from your own
farm or within the immediate locality, then like I've got wood chips from my oak trees, I got oak
leaves, you know, I've got my compost, I've got my worm bin over here and so on. All of those are
inputs that come from my place. And so, they are now creating even more so an association with the
plant and its natural environment. And over time, we talk about the biome, the total environmental
herbal life around, but also the microbiome, the living organisms in the soil. And all of those
things have importance. And so, these become standards in the sense of do we say, okay, in
Mendocino, we had a long tradition, nobody grew more than like, you know, 25 or 30 plants. Whereas
up in Humboldt, they always grew a thousand plants. And so, those are like traditions that are
different within just across the county line. And so, those are kind of things that the standards
would be produced by the petitioners to say, well, in Mendocino, we might say, well, if you're growing
more than half an acre, you don't deserve an appellation. But up in Humboldt, they say that's
ridiculous. You got to, everybody's been growing an acre. And things of like, does it have to be
hand trimmed or hand packed? Or, you know, do you have to use integrated pest management? All those
things become standards, which then, you see, the thing is that the plant also is always responding
to the environment in the way it makes its terpenes. So, terpenes are a protective mechanism,
just like trichomes are a protective mechanism to protect the plant and especially its seeds.
So, your environment is creating the threat or the dangers to the plant. And then the plant
responds with its terpenes, even in relation to its genetics. Genetics will have a potency for
a terpene, but the local environment will say that terpene is much more expressed or much more potent,
or maybe not even present, actually. And Kevin Jodry, a dear friend of mine, he said he
has two farms, one on the coast and one up at like 2,000 feet. Same strain, same program,
everything else, completely different plant, the way it expresses. So, there just are people who
really can tell the difference and it's the nose that knows, but it's the, I call it the ensemble,
but actually with 500 ingredients, it's actually a symphony of everything in there that's all
working together. And so, there's a whole way of judging this and we're working on that and
we're making that more precise. Thank you so much, Swami. I've tried to switch around in some of the
slides. You can see even having some of the scientists and practitioners here speaking about
it, that standards and practices very much overlap. I want to save some time, Swami, as well,
when we talk about standards, to invite you as you started to discuss whether or not a baseline
standard or a more explicit requirement of terroir would be useful here. You've spoken about how
cannabis is this bioaccumulator that expresses and pulls up so much of the natural environment,
sometimes the individual farm, but of course also, you know, both the microbiome and the
region itself and the natural world as it interacts with the farmer.
The standards are something that, and the difference between standards and practices,
I'm still trying to come to grips with actually, standards that are measurable,
certifiable or something like that. But the standards, like we could say, well, I think the
debate, we were hoping the state would come up with a baseline and the baseline would be that
if it's in contact with the natural soil in the ground, that it's in full sun and for the long
season, is the way I like to say it, though they say without artificial life in the flowering section.
So in the French concept of terroir, there is a statement that says no barrier between the plant
and nature. And that I think is the kind of the key concept. But also the other part of the concept
is brought up several times is the cultural or the fact of what the farmers do. So up here in
the mountains and all over the place, if one farmer had a disaster, maybe the rats ate their
starts, the other farmers would give them starts. You know, if someone got raided by the police,
people would give them their shape. There was this community up here that was all a solid
community because we all shared a risk in the prohibitive era. Right. And so what's happening
now is the community split between those who come in to be legal and those who are still braving
the winds of fate and growing out in the wilderness. And so we used to be one community.
And that's one of the issues we have to come across. But with standards now, we have to
realize what are the important standards. Do we say for you to be in our group, you have to be
hand trimmed. Right. And that would be a standard. And that's kind of verifiable. It's not actually
measurable. Right. And then maybe you say, OK, you have to have like six feet between each plant.
Right. Or you can only grow you know, you can only have like three to four pounds per plant
as a stipulation to disqualify a certain thing. But all of those kind of specific standards
practices and so on would be created by the group that comes. And I agree with other speakers who
say three is too small. It needs to be more of a consensus of several farmers in the same area,
maybe eight or nine, something like that. And of course, it's hard to bring people together to
agree on things. But over the years, everyone has kind of figured out what grows up here and the
best way to do. And like I say, so many people are moving into regenerative farming that,
you know, it's actually an expression of not just the soil, but of a state of consciousness about
how we can repair the earth of the world by using regenerative agriculture methods rather than
chemical salt based fertilizer methods that are mostly used indoors and in industrial agriculture.
You know, I just wanted to take that point to loop it back to that quote that we were
listening to at the beginning, because when I think of mining, I actually think of it being
extractive. And I think of it being, you know, damaging to the environment. And here, when we're
talking about this intricate gold mining, working with the soil, this interaction, the essential
and exclusive link potentially between, you know, the farmer intermediating his environment and
working with it. When we bring in regenerative agriculture principles, those standards, if people
choose them, then it almost is not so much extractive, but being back in balance and even
more of something to help the natural environment continue to flower, whether it's, you know, the
pollinators or anyhow. Okay, I want to give that natural segue to Alec Dixon, because I know that
he has many thoughts on these issues as well, in terms of what he sees, even now with testing,
you know, whether there's certain kinds of terpenes that appear in more isolated areas
where there isn't big ag presence to even, you know, what a farm might do individually to have,
you know, these broader terpenes or other expressions within, you know, the ultimate
product from their place. I know, and Alec as well, you may have some thoughts about what
Swami shared on the bioaccumulator aspect of the cannabis plants. So, lots of questions.
Dive right in, Alec.
Hey, what's up, Swami? Yeah, good afternoon, everybody. Hope everybody's well. It's, yeah,
it's an honour to be on this panel, part of this conversation. It's a really exciting,
progressive conversation, I think that the whole community can learn more about. Yeah,
so there's been a lot covered. I would love to jump in on a few areas, you know, one,
you know, kind of around cannabis classification, around terpenes and understanding and having a
more sophisticated understanding of that to really start to define what cultivars actually
exist within the cannabis plant pool, and genetic pool and chemometric pool, you know, kind of from
there, kind of getting into, you know, organic agricultural practices and ways of with regional
superiority, how, you know, these really advanced kind of, you know, team with microbe approaches
kind of can actually help to, you know, double secondary metabolite production within the
cannabis plant, you know, whenever it's grown in various ways in various regions. And then,
you know, from there, there's the whole conversation around the bioaccumulation
properties of this plant, and, you know, the extreme kind of testing regulations that are put
in place. But you have to start kind of on the on the chemometrics. So, you know, at SC Laboratories,
you know, we've been open, kind of testing cannabis exclusively, you know, for the last 10 years.
And over the time, we've, you know, done and ran over, you know, 120,000 terpene tests
on strains of cannabis that we've tested and came across. And in the recent years, you know,
we started working with bioinformaticists and data statisticians to help us to cluster the data,
to understand more about the nuances of the conversation around Indica hybrid sativa.
And, you know, although we're testing currently 35 terpenes, you know, and there are hundreds of
compounds and ultra trace amounts that are expressed, you know, really what we see with
cannabis classification is about five to nine terpenes that essentially define 99% of everything
we've ever tested. And from understanding more about the primary, secondary attributes in
cannabis, with regard to terpenes, we can really start to dive in to understand what cultivars
actually exist. You know, what we see from all the sorting of data is there's about five primary
smell groups and each primary smell group then has two to three subgroups. You know, you can kind
of think of it like wine system, whites and red wines, and then, you know, the various grapes that
are in each of those categories. But essentially we see about five primary sub primary groups,
you know, two to three subgroups is about 10 to 12 archetype profiles that essentially define
everything we've ever tested. And from there, you can really start to understand obscurity and
rarity and what types of really unique profiles that the plant produces that, you know,
are seeming to be related to land race, you know, recessive traits that are within various strains
from around the world. And so kind of taking it from there, you know, like we then see, you know,
kind of on the back of so much of the work of, you know, kind of the great Alain Ingham,
Soil Food Web and the really advanced pursuit to understand how to optimize organic farming
practices in the teaming with microbes approach to, you know, biomimicry, you know, helping to
recreate, you know, perfect environmental conditions. So much of the work of the Soil
Food Web has really helped to begin substantiating through science and through testing on various
secondary metabolites produced by the plant, terpenes being in cannabis, the secondary
metabolite, but seeing kind of how advanced organic practices can actually, you know,
increase in double, you know, secondary metabolite production within the plant,
you know, very much based on region, very much based on organic practices,
and is not as broad as a whole county, but is very kind of myopic to an individual farming
practices level, or the surrounding farmers in that region that have kind of gained so much
experience in serving this plant over such a long period of time. So kind of, you know,
segue in that a little bit, you know, kind of from terpenes and kind of, you know, the expression of
what we see and how organic practices can enhance, you know, these secondary metabolites produced by
the plant grown in various regions, you know, kind of then kind of goes into the conversation
around cannabis as a bioaccumulating plant. You know, this plant is the great bioaccumulator of
the 21st century, and we are now testing it to a level that nothing has ever been tested.
For quality assurance around public health and safety, and for different chemometric markers,
to help identify quality and substantiate kind of, you know, market value in various ways.
When it comes to bioaccumulation and for the QA concerns with contaminants, you know, we,
you know, it's a really fascinating kind of see from the testing level, because,
you know, right now we're almost beginning to start to see California splitting up into,
you know, red zones, yellow zones, and green zones, you know, which really start to define
and highlight the various difficulties, vulnerabilities, and massive opportunities
that exist for farmers in various regions. And when you start talking about...
Sorry.
Yeah, Alec, I just wanted to add there, because when we were talking about even how to show this
data or this image, you provided me with a slide of an area in the Central Valley that are like,
we didn't include it here, but you can see, you could describe it maybe, you know, areas where
there's just all sorts of EPA violations and the like, and then, you know, a whole mountain range
on the other side with nothing. And so I wonder, looking at this 9106 geographical features,
one of the things that petitioners will need to show is that, at least as the regs stand now,
under B, 9106B, substantial evidence that the geographical area is distinctive when compared
to areas outside the proposed boundary and other relevant areas which produce cannabis for sale in
the marketplace. I know you're from the Central Coast. I've spent some time there with different
stakeholders. We've had lots of conversations about this. Even just in, you know, your region,
can you imagine, you know, being able to establish that geographical boundary where you can see,
for example, an isolated area, a canyon that's away from Big Ag that maybe doesn't have some
of the things that we're talking about, pesticides and other contaminants, and is maybe more pristine.
Yeah, in so many ways, you know, now that cannabis is being tested at this level,
for compliance testing with any product failing, having to be remediated or destroyed,
you know, over thousands of these kind of fails going back to the beginning of 2018,
we've really begun to start to kind of create a map overlay of regions that are, you know,
under incredible threat to, you know, on behalf of cannabis farmers growing in these regions,
because of the history of the land, because of the agriculture practices that were taking place
long before they were farming there, or from the neighboring regions, from the way the farmers
till their soil and kick up metals that can then completely fail an entire cannabis crop just from
that simple act. And yeah, in so many ways, what we're, you know, the cannabis appellation
conversation to me is really fascinating, because through the lens of testing, you know, so much of
what we've seen is really kind of starting to show, you know, kind of the avenues and the pathways
for people's success. And small craft farmers, artisan producers have been doing this all their
life with the rich, rich and vast experience to grow this annual plant that is, you know,
very harvest specific, and very, very, very sensitive to actually have an opportunity to
really shine in this time where there's, you know, massive, you know, kind of efforts to
monocrop this plant and to kind of commercialize it in such a way. And so in a lot of ways,
you have the through the testing kind of we're really beginning to see kind of how much is being
affected, how much cannabis farmers are being affected from being planted in these areas.
And, and, and in so many ways, it's not that all areas of ag land in Salinas or in, in kind of,
you know, kind of in Santa Barbara or in Stanislaus County, anywhere where ag takes place,
you know, presents a unique sets of challenges to any farmer that's going to grow there.
And cannabis in so many ways through being this bio accumulator and kind of helping to tell the
story, it's really beginning to, you know, breed uproot a lot of the history and legacy of the
green revolution and chemical induced approach to ag. And in the process, I think it's also going
to be very much beginning to help accelerate the slow food movement, decentralized agricultural
approach, understanding where your food comes from, where your medicine comes from, and,
and yeah, holding food and all other industries to a new standard.
Wow. Thank you so much, Alec. I'm getting thumbs up from Swami. I feel like we've all had these
dialogues a couple of different times in different ways. That's a great place to leave it. Do we,
can we have any last minute, last notes, Blake, or that's it?
Well, the proof is in the nose. And I think Max says the same thing. And that's what's telling
you, because the nose, the terpenes give you a precognition of what's going to happen.
And so that'll tell you what's going to be doing. The terpenes are the fine
pruning of the heart. The terpenes are the fine pruning of the heart.
I cannot wait to learn more about the research Alec is doing with SC labs in these terpene
testing and the culmination of the types, because in terpening has discovered that there's kind of
five cannabis types as well, and it's terpene dependent and that the trigeminal nerve can
detect where that spectrum is. So I just want to hang out with you and compare data and knowledge.
And Swami, I can't wait to smoke one with you. And Eleanor, I want to learn more about
the awesome research you guys are doing. Everybody on this panel is really doing the coolest,
coolest research that's the most meaningful. I'm very proud of the cannabis industry. And
thank you all just so much for everything. This is just such a cool thing to be a part of.
Thank you all. Thank you each one of you for joining us.
I'm just going to do a brief introduction for each of these great panelists that
have stayed the course and are here to lend their wisdom and their knowledge to the research
and after that, I'm going to share a quote or two that I think will guide us through this and then
we'll let Max Montrose take it away. So this panel, science and sommelier,
comes from a couple of different angles. We have Alec Dixon, who is one of the co-founders of
SV labs. He is the director of client relations. He has five years as a consultant in hydroponic
industry, formerly serving in the Navy. He's an outreach director for veterans for medical
marijuana and on the board of the director of the women and men's alliance for medical marijuana at
Santa Cruz, one of the longest running compassion programs in the world. A lot of intersection here.
And then we have Max Montrose from the Tricome Institute. He is a cannabis sommelier, an educator,
an intrapreneur. He will be explaining what intravening is. He is someone who both provides
cannabis education and even certification as it relates to cannabis sommeliership.
And I invite you, Max, as well to fill in more since I know there's so much that we can share
there. Swami Chaitanya is also joining us. He's a cultivator in Mendocino. He's a journalist,
an advocate. I know you've done extensive work with the Mendocino Cannabis Alliance and serves
on the board of origins council. I have the pleasure of visiting his farm where he and his
partner, Nikki Lestretto farm under the full sun, some in native soil, many other things to learn
from from Swami. And if you want to learn more, I really enjoyed seeing him on the news hour with
his partner, Nikki, for their farm and their cultivation, their brand, Swami Select.
And then last but certainly not least, we have Eleanor Quince from Leafworks. She's the CEO and
co-founder and also the founder of Candor Herbarium, which I understand is one of the
world's cannabis herbariums, which I think is going to serve. These herbariums will serve a
pivotal role in doing some of the work we're talking about right now. She is a PhD geneticist.
I know there's a lot more to add. So please, Eleanor, when we get to you, fill that in as well.
And with all of those files and so much more could be said.
