here. And we are live back with another episode of the Friendly Cannabis Show.
Very stoked today for this guest. I know a lot of you had reached out to me in
the meantime and expressed the same thing. We've got JJ of Top Dog Seeds. So
thank you for joining us. Hey now, what's up? Thanks for having me. Yeah, my pleasure.
You know, there's so many different directions I could go and I
do actually have notes here because this is gonna be fun. But one thing you know
that we could definitely say about you is that you have a solid reputation
that has passed the test of time. And when it comes to like breeders and seed
companies these days, that sort of track record is really important. And that's
something that a lot of people look to. I know a lot of... I almost want to say
like a breeder's breeder. You're known for some pretty good crosses, very
powerful cannabis which we'll get into as well. We share the same love for a
particular strain. And you've got you know dozens of reputable strains out
there yourself. So I kind of want to start it off. We could start anywhere.
Chat, definitely toss your questions in. We'll get to them at this point. But I
kind of wanted to start it back way back. I was listening to an interview the
other day. And you know early in the East Coast you scored weed from a
janitor at your school. Is that right? Is that how you kind of first came across
cannabis or getting that on the regular? Well no, I really experienced it really
before that. But that was like kind of during my some of my high school
experiences. You know going further back you know a friend of mine was working as
a janitor after school for janitor service. And he was working with a guy
and he was... and this guy used to get... this was the first kind bud I ever saw.
It was like this green sesame and there was no name to it back then. So we used
to call it like Christmas tree or pine tree. And so yeah we used to get that on
a regular basis. And that was you know that and some of the Hawaiian bud that
used to come back come around back in the day was also a seedless sesame. And
so that was really my first experience with with kind bud. But you know going
through the you know I was still in high school at that time my friend was a
little bit older than me. He was a year older so he was... I was a junior. He
was a senior. And so you know when he left school you know that you know it
was around that same time that you know I was dealing with the janitor from the
school. And really back then it was like good weed was where you found it. Meaning
like you know one guy would have it for you know he would get like a shipment of
it and once it was gone it was gone. You know he would have to go and try to
track it down somewhere else. There really... there was but there wasn't you
know like steady connections. Like you could get steady connections for pretty
like mid-grade weed. But if you wanted the really good kind bud that was really
hard to find. And people would only get that like very sparingly. One of my other
friends he had an older brother and we had scored some some gold. Some of the
real Acapulco gold. You know back in the day it was there used to be some
fool's gold and then there was the real gold. And I just remembered just being
like really light and fluffy. Really golden. No seeds were in it. And it was
really probably one of my first experiences with a really fine sativa.
More of a sativa. Because we used to get you know a lot of the Mexican brick weed,
Colombian brick weed. And you know that was sativa but you know a lot of it was
just still with stems and seeds. And so it was really hard to find some really
fine really good sativas back in the day. Yeah it's almost kind of like craft
cannabis versus commercial these days. You find some really kind bud that comes
around every now and then. Yeah well back then too you know you know most of those
things this was all outdoor weed. You know as most of it was being grown in
in Colombia or South America, Mexico and stuff. So you know really talking early
80s, late 70s type of era. And by the time I was you know I graduated in 84. So
right around that time was a lot of that was really starting to disappear.
That's what I was saying. I probably saw the first kind bud it was probably 82, 83.
And you know once that started coming around that really kind of started
changing you know the whole landscape of connoisseur and good weed being
available at the time.
Yeah that was you know my kind of you know I really started paying attention
in the 90s. And I'm in on the west coast of the Pacific Northwest in the 90s.
Good time, good era, but it's fun to learn more about the east coast because even
today the east coast and the west coast there's still there subtle differences.
You know flavors, the way things worked. But I do remember back at that time not
many things had a name either as we I used to always joke it's like it's called
got some or don't got some. So that's what it is.
Yeah I mean really the name game didn't really start coming around until about
the mid 90s or so. You know from what I remember. Well that you know there was
always the name some Amsterdam. We shouldn't say that you know because in
the late 80s I had friends that were going over to Amsterdam and they were
getting seeds. And I had some friends in the early 90s actually had smuggled some
it was AJ actually that had smuggled some silver pearl if I'm not mistaken.
He brought some seeds. Yeah so he had gotten some of that flower back over into
York and I was able to experience that. And you know that was right around the
time you know when all of the names really started being relevant at that
time. It was in the mid 90s for sure probably like 94 95. And you know and
the indoor American growth scene really started to you know start to you know
started to take hold you know at that time. And you know you had to know
someone that was that was growing but that information was starting to spread
at that time. Yeah I know kind of looking back like Tom Alexander the sense of
the familiar tips was a magazine that was kind of going around. I know that was
you know a lot of Northern California that was a big deal. And you know Greg
McAllister up in Seattle with the lighting store and there were some some
things happening there. You mentioned Amsterdam though which is near and dear
to my heart. I got back actually a month to the day ago. I got back from Amsterdam.
I was there for a month and I've been there a couple years ago. Have you have
you ever made the trip yourself. Yeah I was there back in 2012 and I was there
for one of the last few high times cups there. The year before they had gotten
rated had some problems. That year that I went they still had it it was scaled
down. And then I think they might have had maybe one more year after that and
that was it you know the mayor. And you know a lot of the things had changed and
the attitudes had changed. And so I never really got to you know I got to
experience it but not in the sense of when it was you know back in the day of
it's you know at its height you know. It was already on the downside when I
went there you know. I got to meet everyone. I got to go to the one of
the last few legend cups. So that was a great experience. But you know I was more
impressed by the hash than anything that was there. And a lot of really good
I remember smoking some really good Nepalese cream. That was very impressive.
And they had various other Afghan used in Moroccans and stuff. So that was the
highlight of my trip of Amsterdam. I would definitely agree to that if you
didn't see that big smile on my face when you mentioned that hash because
that's not something that you can walk into any of like the rec stores in the
States and purchase. No no. You know all that stuff was all the import. So all
the import hash was just it was just amazing. And at that time I remember you
know dabbing had just started coming out. And so we I remember we were dabbing in
a coffee shop and people are looking at us. You know what the hell these guys
doing or doing. But what we were doing at the time was it was illegal. I think
it's still illegal. I think most concentrates like that are illegal in
Amsterdam. So but that was fun at the time. Yeah. You know that kind of blew my
mind. A couple of years ago was the first time I went there. So you know I did
miss the heydays of the 80s. But because of that heyday it was almost like a
three Mecca trip for me. Like I had to go to Amsterdam at some point. And it
was fun. It was well worth it. I now write for Sensey Seeds. I was just down
in there. The hash museum since we're talking about hash checking out a few
things that that was a good time. But you do you do get a lot of those imports.
But you're right. The climate there has drastically changed. They're still
trying to kind of push things out. You know no concentrates. I haven't seen
anybody smoking them in the bars either. There's no vape pens but they're trying
to Amsterdam in general is trying to push the red light out to a different
section which they're like you can still have it but we want the city center back.
So go there before you go there before you can't post. Yeah. Yeah. I thought
that was just kind of was a little too seedy for me. I don't know. Well we we
stayed out during the daylight hours. We didn't go out during the night time.
Yeah. Well if you're walking around nighttime there's some you know a lot of
people walking around. You know a friend of mine he had gotten his phone stolen
from him. You know and stuff. So there was you got to really be careful if you're
out walking around at nighttime. Yeah. It's you know it's a major city like
anywhere. Things can and do happen. Sure. You know especially. Well he was high on
acid. It's lost. Oh yeah. Yeah. So you know there were a lot of contributing
factors that you know that made that happen. But nonetheless you know you still
got to be on your toes. Definitely. Now one one shop that stood out to me the one
that we had to go back to first was it was called Katsu. It's in the pipe
neighborhood which is kind of by the big daily market they have there. Did you ever
hit Katsu while you were there. Yeah sure. I was there. Yeah. I think they had the
NL special. They've got a lot of a lot of good stuff. I believe they have special.
They have they have a lot of hash one hash we picked up. It was it just said Sativa.
It was really runny. We smoked some too late at night and did not get much sleep.
It was it was it was a true upper. Yeah. I mean I was you know kind of just being
led around. You know we had a big group of people. You know we went there the gray area.
I'm trying to think of some of the other ones we went to. I think. Oh we used to always go to
Barney's for breakfast in the morning. So good. So yeah. You know I'd run across the street and
see. I think I got some Dr. Greenspoon flour and I think you know. Well these guys had some
of the inside track on where to get the hash who had the good hash at the time. And I think that's
kind of the way that it works in Amsterdam is like you know you got to be in the know and
all right go to this coffee shop. They have this and this and things only last for so long over
there. So you just got to be lucky at the right place at the right time to get some of that stuff.
Yeah it's it's it's you know it's a tourist thing. People travel there from you know different places
in Europe. It's odd. Amsterdam kind of squandered the chance to be like the world capital of
cannabis. The United States is where most people travel now. Colorado in particular
because out there there's actual social lounges or have they gotten moved into that yet.
They're just starting. They're just starting that up now. I know that there's one that I've been
been to downtown. I believe that there's there's start to be some other ones that are starting to
open up. But you're right. Well in a sense you know it was always America I think that was always
driving pretty much the Amsterdam scene pretty much. You know you add all the Americans and then
plus you know the surrounding European countries and you know you know you really have something.
But then once America you know started to go legal and you take the Americans out of that equation
now you're only left with you know a small European market. And yeah now you're right.
Now it's switched up to where we're the driving force. We've always been the passionate you know
about the weed and really the Dutch are businessmen. They took advantage of the laws
and the situation at the time as would anyone you know. But to me they didn't really have any
real passion for cannabis. Most of them smoke tobacco with their head stash. And so you know
when you go over there as an American they see you you know rolling up a big spliff of
just straight weed. They think you're crazy. And you know then we're adding hash into it and
everything else you know where they're taking their hash breaking it up putting it with tobacco
taking their weed breaking it up you know putting it with tobacco. So when I get past one of those
things because I don't smoke tobacco that has a real negative effect on me personally. So it's
nothing that I enjoy. I usually wind up choking out and you know when you're over there when
someone passes you something you would just normally you know hit it you know. But you know
after you know get into a coughing fit then you have to question anything else that would come
your way. We learned early that when you buy a joint you have to ask for pure. Otherwise it's
otherwise it's mixed. The tobacco it's interesting because now they have like a filler a lot of shops
they there's no more tobacco smoking indoors. And that has actually in other parts of the country
Amsterdam still smoke inside the coffee shop. Outside of Amsterdam a lot of coffee shops you
can't smoke it anymore just because people sneak tobacco into their joints. And if the you know
health inspector whatever walks in then this place can lose their license. I talked to him about it
it was a really weird thing but most of its takeaway now which again is kind of backwards.
Yeah I guess it takes away from the social aspect of it because you know people like to you know
gather and enjoy and share cannabis. And so there's a real kind of bonding and social aspect
to it of being able to do that. And well the thing is you know you take that away then people are
just going to go into parks and to open areas where they're going to be able to do that. And
all right you might not be able to meet you know a whole bunch of different people you'll be in your
your small circle of friends but you'll still be able to enjoy it. Yeah yeah and we you know we did
just a lot of open air it was we're getting used to it but my buddy who works at Sensi Seeds
he's like smoke anywhere. We're just like no let's go around the corner he's like
lights it up he's like just smoke people don't care. Right well in New York now in New York City
there's you know you're allowed to smoke anywhere in public just as long as it's not state or city
owned property. So I mean most of the parks you know were city owned you're not allowed to smoke
there but they've been notorious since you know the 60s. You know when Giuliani came in they kind
of you know snuffed some of that out but it's made a big comeback now to where you walk around
in New York and you just smell weed everywhere. That's the dream being in Washington one of the
first states to legalize that's in Colorado we did it on the same day. You know you still can't
grow at home there is no like public smoking so when new states pass laws where like anywhere you
can smoke a cigarette you can smoke weed we're just like fuck. So hopefully hopefully that changes
Yeah yeah it's kind of crazy on how you know some of the states well you know with Colorado and
Washington being you know one of the first you know states to go rec and they were kind of setting
an example and you know they you know it could have gone either way so they kind of went on the
more stricter safer side to where you know people couldn't be like well there's a free for all and
whatever you know so now that's kind of changed now but you know where you see a lot of other
more liberal states you know opening that have opened up like Oklahoma where you know
you know just I think it's three thousand dollars buys you a license you know there's no cap on
anyone can pull up and get into business and then the sense that should be you know the way
the way it should be you know the strong will survive you know competition not everyone can
be able to make it when they start limiting and putting caps on stuff you know it opens up a whole
a whole thing for be able to get into corruption and favoritism and that's kind of like what's
happening now in New York and New Jersey to be able to to get a license and the whole process
is just really geared towards big money because this say for instance for someone like me if I
want to get cultivation license well I'd have to secure a location first so that means I'd have to
rent some type of warehouse or location which you know if you're going to have a you know just say
10,000 square foot warehouse 20,000 square foot warehouse you know you know yeah you know you're
you're talking you know tens of thousands of dollars a month in rent all right so they want
you to secure that location and then well hopefully it will fall under the jurisdiction of the zoning
you know and then you know and then you will you would be able to put in your applications
with hopes of being able to get that and then you know that becomes a whole another you know
exhausting process of of um about you know of doing the application and such and there's a lot
of community ties that are involved and promises and it's just it's you know you know for you know
for someone like me it just doesn't make sense and gambling your life savings away on the hopes
of getting a license that's exactly the thing it's it's it's price prohibitive and that's even
before you get the yes or no on your license a lot of people this is before the application process
you have to have the building which again will have you know the electricity uh demands that
it'll meet it you have to get the right zoning you have to get friendly with everybody else
you're paying all these expenses with a hope um you know i i'm in the same situation here there
there was only a limited number of licenses i can't get them uh we have a consolidation game
here where the big players keep buying up the smaller licenses but they don't actually produce
under that canopy space because then there's less supply less supply equals more demand more demand
equals a higher price not that it's a great uh price structure for wholesalers here but i don't
feel fucking sorry for them um but yeah oklahoma would be awesome because that's something that i
could and would get started in today i just can't move there so yeah unfortunately there's a lot of
different factors in oklahoma situation i see it being pretty much as the oregon situation
um but really you know they talk about giving people social equity and legacy this and that
and then when you really look into it and then you write you know you read the fine print all
right they want you to be um you know uh on the social equity or they want you to be a convicted
you know cannabis uh and and you know have a record and stuff but what they don't tell you
is they want you to have run a successful business for two years with a minimum of five employees
all right and then then they're taking um non-refundable applications for
you know two or three thousand dollars and this is really geared towards the you know the social
equity thing and um you know people that want to do more of the you know craft um
smaller the smaller um licensing but you know a lot of that stuff uh like for me you you know
you have to be a two-year resident you have to live in that you have to live in that town
or live in a bordering or in the bordering town of that to be able to qualify to for that license
and then they're only going to allow maybe two or three license that's even if the that's even if
the town opted in you know so right then the town's gonna be like well how many licenses are
we going to allow or we're going to allow five licenses we're going to allow three for you know
social and the minorities and the other two can go full retail and so you know when you know so
so I'd only be able to qualify for the retail and you know you know being able to
compete against other people and being able to qualify with locations and all that stuff it's
just you know just you can't do it you know you just can't do it's not geared towards
uh legacy or you know small people it's only geared towards big business you know
at this point you know even just you know as much passion and desire as we have to do something like
that from a business standpoint it's not a good decision uh at this point there's a lot of
companies out there you know it's called the amazon model it's like i'm willing to lose money for
three years because i know you'll be out of business in two well i can't play that game yeah
well when you're dealing against hedge fund and wall street type of people you know you know this
is what we're talking about you know uh you know because we're talking about um big business here
in the end you know uh it's going to attract those type of people you know these are investors these
people invest in in uh companies and businesses uh for a living you know and it's just not with
cannabis it's across the board so if they see an opportunity to be able to monopolize uh
a certain industry that's you know you know they're going to do so and and really it's
structured for them to be able to do that you know um even the way that it's structured
being uh in new york you know as a farmer you cannot sell directly to the dispensary you're
gonna have to sell to a wholesaler and then the wholesaler is gonna now sell to the dispensary so
you know who who who's gonna get you know who's gonna get fucked in the end you know the farmer's
gonna get fucked because the wholesaler is gonna be like well we're only gonna give you
you know this much a pound i'm sorry take it or leave it and then you know then he can turn it
over to the you know to the dispensary and be like well you know you know the same thing now
you know i'm gonna double or triple my money take it or leave it and a lot of that depends on the
quality uh the supply and demand and so there's a lot of moving parts in in that but you know in
the end it doesn't give the farmer much power to be able to you know move move his product or set
or dictate the price of what he wants to get for his product yeah and this is kind of true of
traditional agriculture as well the farmer always gets paid the least right and then really you know
in in the retailer the dispensaries they're just gonna buy and just double the price and so it
doesn't matter what they pay they're just gonna whatever we're gonna double the price as long as
it fits into the you know the current market yeah prices you know so you know so i don't you know
and really a lot of it isn't really geared on quality it's all geared on price so price and
thc percentage right but you know and you know as as what we're finding out is that you know a lot
of these high thc things are just they don't they don't cut it you know they you know they they
might look good and you know they smell good but when you actually smoke them they they taste like
cardboard the high is boring or it doesn't you know it doesn't do anything and and so for me
i go with my my own passion that's what i've always bred you know and um you know growing up
you know you know from the late 70s to 80s the 90s so i've been able to experience a lot of good
cannabis so you know in breeding i you know i've incorporated my taste and my experiences
into my breeding and the plants that i've come in contact with you know i've tried to you know
make some kind of um replicate uh the uh some kind of um i'm trying to think of the word but
you know i wanted to make some kind of seed form and representation of that of that clone so
you know even though you know if the seed only represented you know like 75 percent of that
original clone i really considered that a success you know so um just trying to you know get that
personal um stock for myself you know building up a personal library of of clones that that that
passed through my hands you know because in in the past we've lost a lot of stuff so um i just
wanted to have something some kind of representation of seed form be like all right well we lost the
clone or we could find it in the seeds so and you know and that's really where i started that's
where i really started you know with my breeding and then getting those x you know i would keep
you know a certain amount of seeds for myself and then i would just you know try to get those
other seeds out there and they've you know the seeds kind of just made their own reputation
for themselves you know you know a lot of what other people did with them what they found with
them and you know and how they advanced or worked with the with the genetics as well
yeah well let's yeah i love that and i want to expand on that i want to we're talking about a lot
about the commercial stuff but let's go back to the good old days when you know cannabis just kind
of sold itself and you mentioned kind of the mid 80s is when really kind buds started coming around
um what was that like in the terms of just kind of the cannabis scene in new york when some of
these we'll call them elite strains uh started coming around and do you remember what that was
like as far as uh kind of the hit or miss of finding those it was rare it was really rare
because you know back then there weren't many local growers you know so most of the stuff that
we got in new york was imported okay so you know like i was saying you know you know one of the
really last amazing uh batches of import that i remember was the the eagle tie and that was back
in 1989 and you know my my local guy that i knew who's a dealer you know he was pretty much on
up and up well it was in new york city and he was able to get to his and um and they were just
pressed bricks you know they had you know they had they were wrapped in saran wrap and they had
these uh paper in there that was stamped with the eagle on it and uh that batch became quite famous
it was a prior batch i think had gotten um confiscated uh there was a particular
photo that was in the new york times um with that same stamp on it um the book i don't know if
you're familiar with the book tie stick no like writer like writer and um yeah a lot of that that
is actually documented you know um it was quite amazing uh so yeah and we would see you know
um you know a lot of different stuff uh once people started to grow locally
uh actually my friend started growing uh at the time too he was one of the first people i saw
with it indoor grow he was getting his seeds from um amsterdam back in the day so this is like in the
late 80s early 90s i mean he had an apartment right off of times square
and he uh in the building he i think the he he he rented almost every apartment in the building
except for one and it was some guy some guy that was an actor he lived up in albany and he came
he'd go back and forth to albany and he wasn't much of a bother and wasn't in the building so
much so the guy used the upper floor as a as a grow room so i was like one of the first grow
rooms i that i ever saw which you know i was just you know amazed and everything and yeah so you
know you know so really back in the day it was really kind of trying to secure the connection
if you're able to get kind bud you know and if they were getting it on a regular basis just
trying to just trying to you know nail that down was it was a tough thing because you know there
was so much so many people that were looking for that you know it would just get bought up in in
in in a minute so you know when i when i met you know my clop the weasel you know he was the first
grower that i met that was like looking to sell his weed so when i got the opportunity i was just
like listen man i'll buy i'll buy everything you have i have cash uh there's no reason for you to
risk yourself and hustle out here and in the park and walk around and so you know we started meeting
down at down at the wetlands and so you know he i didn't know him well you know just someone that i
had met in the park and so he would show up with a bag and i would show up with money and we'd make
an exchange and you know we'd keep in touch and when he was ready i was ready always ready always
be ready when you have that man it's it's been so long but i do remember having to have like that
rolodex of people you could actually go through to like okay you got some this week wow yeah it's
luckily that's a distant memory but yeah that definitely was real right well i mean back then
i mean there were there were things that a lot of people you know wouldn't you know they can't relate
to with with today it's called the drought and it's not being able to find the need
and there were i mean the last drought i remember was in 1990 and the streets were filled with
cocaine and you couldn't find weed anywhere that seems so weird but yeah you know we'd always
definitely uh in washington we experienced that july august drought we're like man people need to
pulling stuff down because there's no more weed right well i mean and you're talking you know
you know when people were actually grown this is pre that when you couldn't even fall back on
local grudge i mean there was really there you know there wasn't any in 1990 you know so it was
really pretty much all imports but by that time you know they had pretty much cracked down on
all of the the southern imports and all the imports that were coming in through through
mexico and south america and once they started having a hard time smuggling that they just
started smuggling the harder drugs cocaine and heroin and you know that just kind of dried
things up and during that time you know uh well probably previous to that is really
you know getting into like 1984-85 is kind of when indoor things started in in washington
and portland with you know with um with you know seattle greg and and all those people
with the first indoor grocery shops and first indoor lighting you know a lot of that stuff
was unheard of you know and so if you're thinking you know that really started in the mid 80s
you know it took you know another five years you know by the time that information you know got to
the east coast and everything and you know and you know amsterdam did have a big part of of
cultivating a lot of that stuff too you know because um people were able to go over to amsterdam
and be able to get the concept of indoor growing right and so they started you know you know when
my friend first started i remember he was using the rock well back then you know you know what
what is that you know and so um you know so you know those uh early years of you know of the mid
80s to early 90s was a real big you know you know learning and growing in the in indoor um scene to
kind of combat the the lack of weed you know the lack of imports and stuff that were coming into
into the country but also you had the you know the outdoor um cali thing going on at the same time too
you know but that was seasonal you know so and so you know and you would get kind of experience
what you're saying all right you would be able to get you know weed up until you know the summer
time and then that that crop was over and now you're waiting for everyone to harvest like what
you're talking about so that kind of leads up into the into that time period of what you're talking
about yeah one thing um you know that always seemed to be around uh and i see some people
mentioning it in chat uh as an east coast thing too but beasters do you remember beasters was that
a thing on the east coast as well yeah canadian just like not good you'll take it because it's
the only thing around weed well that was kind of like the beasters kind of you know took up the
demand met the demand of the kind but you know so there was you know a really at that time that you
know you had to know someone that was growing indoors you know so i was lucky enough like i
said to to know the weasel and so he was constantly growing then he you know expanded got his friends
involved and you know then all of a sudden we became like this little crew of people
that were loosely you know affiliated you know some of us knew each other some of some of us
didn't you know so during that time that stuff you know you know i would get you know three or
four pounds you know in a heart and i would be his whole harvest and i'd have people come up
and be like i'll buy it all and i'd be like sorry dude you'll be lucky if i sell you a half a pound
if i like you you know i mean so i had to put limits actually on what i used to sold so it was
usually a quarter pound limit i would occasionally bend and sell someone a half a pound
it was all you know all on supply and demand i mean i had people lining up the door just waiting
for that people other weed dealers that would buy it you know for their head stash so you know it
really created a lot of other opportunities for me for favors and people let me pair cherry
peg will be like you're the first one i'm calling you come over i have this i'm doing a faith you
know so i went favor for favor so i was able to you know kind of parlay that into other things
and so um so the canadians really you know what so during that time when the beasters came down
you know they kind of filled that void it was kind of like a it wasn't kind bud but it wasn't
it wasn't pressed mexican either you know it was kind of like in the middle
right and and sometimes you would get like some pretty decent ones you know i i you know i i could
say i mean i've seen the worst of the worst and but but you know but sometimes they would have
stuff that was named ojie kush bubba kush you know i remember seeing you know i remember having
you know the bubba's were pretty big beaster bubba's and they were they were they were halfway
decent you know so it depended on you know when if you knew the guy that was because it was the
same thing it was kind of like when you you know going out shopping in cali like you get a hundred
pack you got you know it's a mixed bag of you know who knows 10 or 20 different things in there
so it might be only five of these or maybe 10 of those and so you'd have to go through and cherry
pick the really good ones and they would just they used to call them trips so they would just get a
trip and really what they would do is get a trip and then they'd go through and cherry pick all the
good ones the good cushions if they had a scour or anything that had a recognizable name to it
and they would add more money to those and then the the other ones the other cheaper ones they
kind of let those ones go let those ones go cheaper you know so there was a little bit of a
game and juggling that went involved in what they were getting and what they were selling and so
like i was saying depending on you know when if you knew the guy and you were able to get in there
and cherry pick some early ones you'd be able to get some decent ones but if you were the last guy
coming in then you were getting bottom of the barrel right yeah fortunately i you know i've
never known that you know crushed mexican brick weed uh in the pacific northwest it was always
kind uh you know the beasters was about as low as we went over here so it was it was nice right
well it depends on when you came up you know you came up during that time and you know and so i
mean there's a lot of people now that could say well i've never experienced you know you know
weed being illegal you know as crazy as as crazy as that sounds you know so there's a real you know
the generation gaps and experiences are pretty wide yeah you know i say sometimes too uh for
that generation i feel kind of bad because they never have the experience of the dealer's couch
i mean the dealer's couch is where you met people from you know like different schools
different areas it's where you had like wild topics you've never even thought of or heard of
before and then you just kind of open your mind but because you couldn't just come and go you
always had to hang out for like 20 30 minutes and then smoke the weed that you just bought
with the person you sold it or bought it from so and that's the kind of experience i created in
new york you know um when i i i got an apartment actually um i shared an apartment with someone
and i didn't live there i just he lived there he had an extra bedroom and i sold weed out of it
and so that was the kind of experience that i tried to create where you know you know wasn't
like a huge place but you know you'd be able to get a small room of you know four or five people
and you just you know come in with all different uh walks of life you know and you know and people
have different experiences and so you get to share you know and meet different people and yeah
you know that that dealer couch talk is you know it's uh you know part of the whole social
experience kind of like you know being at a coffee shop yeah well well said that's and that's yeah
that's why we need them um i want to i want to ask though i know this is probably a subject you've
talked about many times um the piff though when did the piff come into the scene for you or for
new york because i'm on the west coast i honestly can say i'm not convinced i have ever actually
smoked it myself i'm so far removed from that scene um well when i started you know hustling in
central park in 1992 that's probably when i first saw the piff um you know you know back then you
know there were numerous dealers in the park and you know everyone had different connections and
everyone had different weed so you know you would you know i i was always a connoisseur so like you
know it didn't matter you know who had the good weed i would go and buy and i remember buying a
gram for 30 dollars yeah and i mean it and you know it was just you know jamaican guy that used
to come in and he knew someone that had a grow room and the weed that he used to get was just
you just never saw anything like it before and he'd only have maybe an ounce or two or i mean
very very very limited you know so when you saw him walking in the park you just knew you know
when he didn't come to hang out he came to sell weed so when you saw him i knew right away like
yo go check out rick and a jamaican rick and like the weed that he had was just you know for the
time and it was 30 a gram and so i would buy a gram or two just to treat myself and you know
i wouldn't get crazy or anything but you know that's the way it was back then and you know
when he wasn't around that was it that weed wasn't around and so you know when the piff you know that
used to be around you know some of the spanish guys had it um there's one white guy i knew had
it and we became pretty friendly he had you know connections uptown and there's some dominicans and
stuff so i used to start i started getting it through him on a regular basis and yeah i mean
it would just always be kind of wet and kind of leafy and just you know but you know when you
smoke that stuff it was just you know you know it's just like one of those weeds that kind of
like what i was saying like you know you know when things were that special and that exclusive you
know but luckily the piff wasn't exclusive you know it was you know being mass produced
but at the time it's all about who you know you know so if you don't know you know then there's
only a few ounces yeah there's only a few ounces floating out there right but i was that one guy
one thing but like for the piff that was more of a commercial mass-produced thing
and so if you weren't in the know of going uptown or knew someone up there like it really wasn't
going to be you know unless you caught it in a park or something like that not a lot of white
guys were getting it back then you know so um yeah lucky one of the lucky few though you learned you
knew early yeah but really what happened though was back back then um so back in the really
in the mid 90s there at the time i'm talking about the park and everything is like you know there was
a lot of hard a lot of cocaine on the streets a lot of heroin on the street so uptown they used
to have these coke spots and crack spots and eventually they turned those spots into weed
spots like you know it was kind of you know a whole kind of revolution started up there where
they started you know people started preaching to get away from the hard drugs a lot of rappers were
you know starting getting into weed you know that's really what when dr dre snoop dog all
those guys started coming out in the early 90s you know and there was a whole movement to to try
to get away from hustling hard drugs into more you know hustling weed and stuff like that so it kind
of changed the culture a little bit up there it did and that that dre album the chronic was
responsible i almost hear you know stories of the piff is like there's so many things that are called
it that aren't it it reminds me you know almost on the west coast everything was like chronic and i
want to i want to you know probably credit that to dre but like if it was really good people would
be like yeah i got the chronic well that's what they used to call anything really good to chronic
you know i mean that's kind of how you know that the diesel started you know we used to call
everything the diesel you know the chronic you know there was all these these catch names that
were around back in the day because there really was no real name for that particular weed that
you know that used to come around so you'd go you know you got more of that diesel or more of
whatever you know one strain that's really dear to my heart it's it's you know my my top three of
all time that i've seen you work a lot with is the chem chem dog um and there's there's many
you know varieties or takes on it chem sis chem dog 4 chem 91 can you maybe uh tell us what you
or maybe what is your favorite one or some of the things that you like about all of them i don't know
i just love the strain well originally you know the chem 91 was the first chem that i experienced
that and the super skunk the weasel had traded uh chem dog up in massachusetts he met him at a fish
show they exchanged numbers he he drove up there with a friend um they brought clones they traded
clones he brought my super skunk 91 down to his room i was his dealer sold all of his weed so i
got exclusive on that 91 and skunk super skunk and so i was getting that and um you know that's
a you know so that was really my first experience and really you know something that i never had
before and people never you know just started people just started going crazy for it because
you know no one ever saw anything like that before so they didn't know what to make of it and then
once they smoked it they were just that's the best shit i ever had and so there was a huge demand for
you know yeah was there anything in particular that you enjoyed about uh the chem 91 in general
was it was it in your head stash or was it just more of a this was a good uh demand product
no i mean i would you know if i got it i'd keep as much as i as i could you know for my for my head
um but yeah people just you know like i said they just you know they never saw weed like that before
so uh and and then um and and so i was only back then i was only i was only selling it you know
most most you know going through most of the 90s um i started first growing in in in the late 90s
but i didn't first start growing chem dog i i think uh um i'm trying to think oasis it might
have been or something like that um but but the you know i had gotten an apartment in in new york
and i um the weasel gave me some some clones and um and i started growing i started growing there
but it didn't last very long because i blew out i over like i blew out the power and like
i mean it created a huge problem and i couldn't fix the power i had to bring people in and so
yeah at that time luckily uh some guy i knew that was selling weed he he had a building and
he had a uh a growth thing his friends had a growth thing and they were having problems
and i went down there i looked at it and yeah i could help you and then so when that happened i
was able to move all my plants down to their to their spot and so we you know grew there for
for uh about a year or so and i didn't really start you know and once that ended
you know i you know i didn't really it was about a year or so and i was looking for a spot and i
found one up in the up in the cat skills and so i started i started growing up there and that was
really my really first serious like kind of commercial grow you know i had like five lights
you know and a basement and so i was really geared more towards this you know growing
flour and trying to sell it and so yeah i was able to you know once i started growing
um i had i started getting access to some of these clones you know the uh the nigerian silk the hp 13
uh i wound up getting the chem d and so you know when i got the chem d
um and was able to experience that you know i was just like yeah it's even better than the 91
and you know and that's kind of like when i really started you know making seeds
and really my very first cross i had gotten um super silver super silver haze from greenhouse
and uh and then i crossed that into a sour diesel nice and i never i never
released those seeds i think i still have some of them and then i remember i crossed that into the
nigerian and you know i started you know just just tinkering around i was like some of the very first
few crosses that that that i made um but you know then probably even prior to me getting the chem d
but once i got the chem d it was just to me it was just a you know a game changer and and by that
time i had tinkered around enough to where i wanted to um you know start looking at breeding a little
more seriously and do what and what and what i really thought was was like well you know we're
getting all these clone only strains you know kind of like some of the strains i i named you know
sour diesel you know all these these strains but i like but we don't have a male uh you know like i
have nothing to like what are you going to use to cross into this you know so uh the only seeds
that were available were from from amsterdam and you know by that time you know you it was really
kind of draw the luck you know when you're getting seeds from there um because i was a big fan of
sensi seeds you know like i i loved all of their strains you know like you know the nl5 haze
afghans the the hash plant um i mean all all that you just saw you know the mr nice strain
all those were just so you know inviting to me you know and um so i that so i decided i was like
you know they're probably you know the best you know that i was who i knew the best so a friend
of mine was going out there i think i gave him like a thousand dollars and i was like this you
know get me a whole bunch of senses give me a whole bunch of seeds you know so uh actually i
i think i had a catalog and i actually you know wrote down a list of what what i wanted you know
so you know i wound up getting the hindu kush oh yeah i always keep this by my desk yeah
i'm getting hindu hindu kush afghan one nl5 haze uh the hash plant uh skunk kush
um there were a couple other ones i you know i can't really remember but
i think early skunk was another one that i got and uh so yeah i was like all right so
you know i had gotten all these seeds from sensi and so you know i decided that you know i was
going to start you know growing growing some of them out to see you know what i was going to you
know what they were going to turn out to be and stuff and so when i really started the um
you know the chem d project really you know i really had it down to either the hindu kush or the
or the afghan so you know after i had grown both of them out you know i didn't really like the
afghan it was kind of short and the buds were kind of airy and it was kind of leafy and you
know i was kind of looking for more pure uh indica and the um afghan one kind of fit that bill you
know it was you know more wide leaf the the buds were you know a lot more uh bigger and uh thicker
and it was like single stalk it wasn't as leafy and stuff you know kind of had like a piney like
medicine-y taste to it and it had a decent high it wasn't like super strong but i was like all
right this is you know so that's why i picked you know to be my outcross to the chem d and so at the
time the chem d i was like i'm going to create my own male so i decided on the chem d and like
decided on the chem d because that was the strongest thing i had at the time it was it was
my favorite weed um you know i didn't know it was going to be what it is now you know i mean
it's just no i just knew that i had it and it was like the best thing that i had so like all right
this is what i'm gonna make my male out of so you know i just started crossing the afghan to the chem d
you know and then i back crossed it to the and that made the double dog um at that time um
i had this con had come in contact with joe b you know you know at that time uh you know ic mag
was was you know was just starting to get really big overgrowth scene uh i think they had gotten
busted and so you know joe b was one of the first people that put a post out about chem dog like you
know like when i first got the chem 91 i didn't know what it was you know and so i did some
research on it and see if anyone else knew what it was and there was just this one thread joe b
chem chem dog and so i started talking to him about the chem daughter like i was like i got the
chem dog he's like you know like you know he couldn't you know believe it and eventually
you know we started putting all the you know pieces of the puzzle together i connected him in
um chem dog greg and you know they they reunited uh he chem sent him some uh some of the remaining
chem force uh the four seeds uh joe popped him wound up finding the chem one two three four
um he wound up sending me the four i sent him uh i think some double dog seeds um and then later
later um i wound up um you know i made the tray dog after the double dogs i just back crossed it
you know so it was the double back cross with the tray dog after he gave me the chem four
i just crossed that into the chem four and i made the star dog um i wound up i wound up um
popping some of those seeds i found the cory hane probably in the first few i only pop i think only
you know at the time i was still doing production so i was doing this side breeding on the side
and what i would do a lot of the times was either i would i would put them in when when a round was
finishing i would put the breeding plant in at the end of the cycle so when the plants through pollen
either the plants were going to get cut down like within days or they were out of there you know and
so once the pollen you know blew then i would be able to put in that next the next round in
that was vegging and so i created a cycle like that just to be able to do these little breedings
you know and and so um so i made this star dog i found the cory hane cut i thought it was amazing
i i gave i started giving that out i gave it to aj um and he's the one that actually
when he was cutting it he was cutting it the night that cory hane died and so he was like yeah this
shit is the shit that cord killed cory so that's kind of like how he that's how that star dog cut
got named the cory hane um i i wound up i think i i think i i sent that cutting and seeds out
to joe in california and uh you know he was up in humble and all that and so he wound up you know
giving the uh that cutting started making its way around some of those seeds started making
its way around and it just really you know blew up on its own and and really started
me making its own reputation and it was really what you know what joe did with it
what his friends and and and other people that you know started to uh blow the star dog up and then
i think it was in 2009 it was i think kyle cushman took it down to san francisco to the
high times medical cup and it i think it placed second or something like that and so that's when
it really started to get a recognition um you know i started getting recognized uh for my work
and you know it just you know just really snowballed from that it was really nothing
i really intended to do um but being being a hustler you know selling weed and working in
construction and you know like i really um recognize the potential um so once that started
happening it just really gave me more incentives to start making more stuff and you know and a lot
of it was really based on like i was saying my personal taste a lot of the strains that were
available and popular in new york city at the time you know the sour diesel the piff you know the
hp 13 and you know anything else you know at that time i was just on a quest to try to get as many
different clones or you know do as much research and you know when you become a weed nerd it's just
all becomes about details you know and so um you know with that said you know i can't you know i
can't you know i think of a number of clones i've passed through my hands you know throughout the
years of of growing and um probably probably the mass majority of um you know they didn't make the
cut you know there was a lot of things that you know that might have been really good and relevant
at that time you know but you know as time goes on things get passed up you know new things come
out um people's tastes change and so you know um you know what's popular today becomes forgotten
you know i mean what's popular tomorrow gets i mean today gets forgotten tomorrow and so and that
chain just you know keeps going on you know and so there's only very few streams that really kind
of like passed the test of time you know and so um you know and chem and sour and haze and a lot of
those strings strings or are just some of them you know and they were just the ones that that i was
familiar with you know growing up and coming up um in my experience but you know people like you
like you were saying that were on the west coast who were totally detached from uh most of that
stuff and yeah where you know a lot some of those more popular clone only strings did make your way
make their way over to you you know a lot of the more rarer strings like the piff
um did not and that's really because you know the dominicans and the cubans and the guys that
were controlling that stuff uh i was very closely held you know it's only been i mean i i wound up
getting uh getting the black haze back in like probably 2012 or something like that and you know
it was just something that money mike came up with he knew someone that got it to him on the forms and
you know i wasn't really you know sure really the real thing or not when i grew it i was
you know i was kind of skeptical it was a real bitch to keep and i wound up losing it you know
but i did wind up doing a little bit of work with it um cool so you know it's just really you know
it's really just you know going through and learning you know the strings and you know
really experiencing the flower first seeing if that is you know if that if it's good enough to
be able to you know take the time to you know grow it out and make it come out you know like
like you expect it to and if it's good enough then you can uh breed with it breeding with
intention and knowing what you're working with so important and so uh underrated i think sometimes
these days uh is just the the basic legwork of doing those things well you know you need to have
a vision on what you're doing and you know you need and what you know and what the outcome is
going to be you know you got you know you just can't just throw like two things together and
you know expect a miracle and you know maybe sometimes it you know it does happen you know
genetics are really are really funny you know but it's just like playing the lottery or you know
playing a slot machine is this pool gonna is this gonna pay off am i gonna get get a winner on this
one and and you know the percentages most of the time not you know so if you start with stuff that's
high caliber you know high quality and stuff um then you know your chances are going to be a
lot more you know to to get something really good at the end you know so you know when you're putting
and it's really knowing genetics and knowing cannabis so you got to really know the strains
that you're using and if i'm gonna you know cross a to b you know i'm i'm expecting you know a
certain um profile and taste and in structure and in the finishing time and and all that stuff so
and you know sometimes things come out the way we envision it and sometimes it doesn't you know and
you know like i said genetics is you know it's it's very tricky a lot of it's kind of like dog
breeding because you're you're trying to um concentrate on a specific phenotype and just like
a dog you know you you have a champion dog and you're kind of you know you want to you know kind
of concentrate on those genetics and trying to reproduce that dog as close as you can to get
another champion dog and it's kind of like the same thing when you're trying to reproduce certain
strains where you're trying to uh you know get get all of those genetics you know tighten that
genetic pull up and so where you're not going to get a lot of variants or variables or different
you know you want something that's going to be true. A hundred percent and that that comes from
experience and from working the lines and that's kind of one thing that i saw with a lot of the
genetics from Amsterdam is they may not have been the most flavorful they may not have been the most
potent but the reliability of kind of what they're passing on is easy to almost pick out from whatever
you're working with if you have something stronger on this end. Go ahead. Yeah no you know but uh you
know i think you know the way that i feel about Amsterdam i think you know um like Neville you
know he you know in his heyday really you know in 89 in 90 you know you know it was kind of he was
kind of at the the pinnacle of his breeding the peak of his breeding and that's when he got into
his troubles and so uh when he got into his troubles you know we all know that you know he
passed his company on to uh Sensi seeds and it became Sensi seed bank and so those early early
90 years they were still working with the majority of Neville's you know uh mother stock his plants
um that you know they they took over everything the cannabis castle which was his and all of that
so they put it in though so um but you know but you know but then we see a big shift in in in the
quality and the reliability in the genetics and um you know by 1995 uh they came out with the Jack
Carrere uh which was a big hit you know a cup uh winning um strain um and then after that you know
they just kind of went downhill the breeding i don't know what happened uh when they the original
packs that i bought were the original cellophane packs they just had the cord in them and they gave
you 15 or 16 seeds they gave you quite a bit of seeds uh for you know for back that in that time
and i think it was like 15 to 16 seeds per pack and so um but then they changed the packaging to
the boxes and then the bubble and once that happened um i bought both packs um and a friend
of mine really what happened was he went to the 95 cup bought a pack jack career brought it brought
it back started growing it um and it was phenomenal i mean the stuff was it was going i think like
77 to 84 days but they were getting like a quarter pound or a half a pound of plant
so i mean they were just crushing it you know okay but they were crushing it to the point where
they oversaturated the market and i had to tell them yo we gotta cut this shit i can't sell it
anymore people just you know you know just you know that some things just you know they have
the run and it's over so i was like listen we you know we can't you know you're gonna have to switch
up to something else and he's like oh no problem i have a i still have the rest of the pack left
i was like all right just kill i said i was like just kill that plant you know and this plant was
like one of the it was close to um the jack you know the original
jack cut the one the drunkers had it was okay i mean it was really big it was more of a bit
on the hazy side i mean i mean i mean just the the tops were just four arms it was just
unbelievable i mean the smell was unbelievable left the smell of haze in a room it wasn't super
strong you know but it had really a unique unique really nice taste you know so that made it really
popular and they just you know we just overdid it on it so i told them kill it all right fast
forward you know five or six years i'm like yo why don't you find that pack of jack career
you know oh i lost it all right so you know so i was all right i'll just get you another pack so
during this was when i was you know i was on um ic mag um i had just started you know starting to
sell my seeds on a regular basis there and they wanted to back then they wanted to do they wanted
to pay you your options of payment were a bank check or seed credit so i mean a bank check to
me was just totally sketchy like it's like here you go exactly it was just uh it was just a paper
trail with my name on it you know if anything ever happened to ic mag i didn't know you know
it was coming from england like the whole thing was just sketchy yeah so i was like all right
just give me some seed credit so i knew i had seed credit so all right we need a packet packet
jack career bam i got it all right so we get the box you know i give it to him he grows it out
and then when he hands me the weed it's just not the same not the same it was just total gore i
mean we just there was just a total nightmare it was you know so it was just you know so disappointing
you know so you know it just really told me you know and then i started hearing numerous stories
of things and um yeah so you know uh you know after that you know i just kind of started really
just concentrating on um my own stuff you know i i used their afghan one as outcross to the camde
and then i used their nl5 haze out across to the nigerian silk so those were really those two
were kind of like the foundations of you know my beginnings of you know the indica stream and
stt of a stream and so once i started building my own stock of man you know i made you know got
initial out crosses and then once i you know would got my own stock i would just pick mails from
those certain crosses to try to mesh with whatever i was trying to do so you know the chem stuff
worked well with pretty much everything you know um with other chem sours and out crosses
you know and then i you know i did the um with the nigerian and then i did the back cross so
that really you know became the nigerian haze and so you know that became really special and so
you know that was pretty much you know the foundation and then i you know was able to
cross out into other hazes and stuff and so i just really started to broaden the spectrum
of you know the different um genetics that were different but similar that would that i thought
that would mesh well and you know and just knowing and experience you know what each
stream bring to the table and all that kind of stuff.
Well was there anything in particular that you liked or looked for and used in the males
you said you know it's nice to be able to kind of predict the plants did you have like a stud
male that would always pass on this particular trait or i tend to get really passive males
that usually let the female do their do their yeah yeah and that's what you kind of hope for
because usually that's what your goal is is try to reproduce the female not the male you know
yeah because you don't know what the male really brings you know and that's and that's the thing
so um that's really really what you want to um kind of concentrate on is you know trying to bring
the traits out but you know like with me like my male was so inbred with the chem that i knew
what that would bring you know that what that male would bring and so when i kind of outcross that to
say like a bubble gum you know i know i'm what i'm envisioning is a fruity gassy
you know kind of a it's more of a stout plant and and and so you know you gotta have a vision on
what you're doing but when i was breeding like i would never use the same male you know you know
oddly in the beginning and you know uh and that's kind of like you know with the star dog it has
you know it's had different inceptions because that very first breeding you know the the quarry
came out of that the illuminati came to that and i think the guava came out of that so like there
were three three keeper cuts that you know that were that became popular that came out of that
breeding and i'm sure that there's other stuff that was out there too that just didn't make it
to the top but i you know i made that one breeding and i killed the male you know just
thinking oh well if i need a male i got plenty of seeds i'll just pop another pop another few
seeds find a male and use it again boom and that's what i did with the second breeding of the star dog
and um the second one you know it was good but there was no no nothing rose to the top like
on the first one you know and and then i used a third one and then the third one
uh i called the purple male because um in that breeding i i i pollinated the sour diesel
and the chem four and i think the white and there might have been a couple other ones
oh uh the purple no no no no that wasn't me but those three so what what what wound up happening
was was everything that got everything that male got bred into um they all showed like little hints
of purpling which was like really like you know so like some of the star dogs were like you know
they had a shade of purple to them and uh okay some of the some of the sour dogs had a shade of
purple to them and you know and everything they had so it was obviously from from the male that
that that purpling came from and you know i would you know i think it would probably might be some
type of recessive afghan obviously yeah you know did that come from the sensi side of it
it might well if could have because i don't really think you know many other i haven't really seen
many other chems really purpling out much oh and also the chem 91 also got got um
got included in that breeding and so uh the original new york city diesel
number 12 and number 10 came out of that breeding uh i think the k upton star dog came out of that
breeding and it might have been like one or other two uh famous cuttings that came out of that
breeding you know so um but then again i you know i did the breeding and killed the male and
that was it you know but but now i could say now i now that's something i don't do
once i start using a male i keep that male around until i could really see uh what what it throws
um depending on uh the male and you know what i want to do with it for the future
you know has a lot to do with it too um so you know you got to think about what that
brings to the table and then you know whatever that's you breed it into what that's going to
bring into it too so uh you know some things work and some things don't work
yeah i appreciate that you take the time to find these things out uh because you're right not not
every male is gonna be the stud um and give some things that you want it's just kind of funny
though now i'm gonna look at star dog every time i i get some because i do enjoy that uh does it
have the purple tinge to it it's like finding that rare like import cd you know you're like
ah but this is the that edition i kind of like that right but also when you're you know envisioning
something you know you got to envision a flavor profile and what's nice with the chems is is like
the chems are pretty dominant and so you know and what works best is when you get a layered palette
so you can taste some chem you can taste some fruit or some you know it's a layered palette
where you're getting like two or three different flavors in one toke you know you may get a high
fruity intake but a light chemi back end you know and so um you know that has a lot to do with you
know picking you know and pairing up plants to breed i like that well said um there are those
are kind of fun ones i have one right now uh westport grape juice it's all candy grape on
the inhale but then somehow by the time you exhale it comes with a little bit of gas on the back end
this is nice it's a total transformation uh and you know like cannabis today all of it's gonna
get you high so at that point what are we left with we're left at you know we're left with like
taste smell and then overall effects i wouldn't say all of it would get you high
i would say depending on your habit you know uh it's gonna get you high because for someone like
me i smoke like an eighth a day or two give or take an eighth a day now i'm smoking chem i'm
smoking oh jeez sour hazes you know i mean so it's like i can take one good toke off of a bowl
or a bong or something and i'm gonna be good for you know for a good 20 30 minutes depending you
know on where i am and how my intake of the day is you know um that can't be said with with lower
quality cannabis you know i could you can give me a fucking ounce or some of that stuff and
like okay i could smoke that whole ounce and i will not get as high as i would off of one or
two hits of my you know really good stuff and there's a certain uh what i like to call it like
a warm fuzzy blanket you know it's just like a warm feel of security of of like i i don't know
what that is you know and only certain streams bring that to the table you know uh that's the
only way i can explain it you know it's something that you know it's all about effect obviously
you know it's about your head but also your body and and that's kind of one reason why like you
know i like ash you know like you know ross and and stuff like that but the one thing that's missing
for me with that is it just does has no body to it like you know you'll get you know you'll get a
real head but you know that that inner glow almost like uh it's something i don't know
if you've experienced then you know what i'm talking about yeah yeah mine mine is
gosh you know it's kind of cool that you're you're i always call myself kind of a sipper of
like weed because my wife she'll sit down and she'll just smoke a big fat bowl i kind of get
some good stuff and like i'll have a toke every 20 30 minutes and just kind of go through the day
and i just like to sip it i smoke it all day long but i smoke like half as much as her but for the
the feeling that you're talking about for me is when i start getting just that numbness and that
tingling right here it's like a happy feeling for me i'm like this is good right right you know and
and yeah i mean i have friends that you know they like to sit and you know roll up a blunt
and smoke a whole blunt you know two or three grand blunt themselves and
you know that that's you know that's what you know it's satisfying for them you know but like for me
i that's just too much for me like i mean i i can do it don't don't don't get me wrong but
it comes to the point of what when you're wasting weed like you know yeah now you know if i could
take two or three hits within an hour and that's you know every time i pack a bowl in a bong or
or a bowl it's going to be a it's going to be a uh a green hit you know it's going to be a freshie
you know once you get down to halfway on that um on that blunt then it starts to get a little
stale and everything and just not doesn't quite taste as good as as the beginning you know i
i smoke out of my little chillum all day just a little piece just you know that's all you need
some really good oneys yeah i did that well shoot i know i could go for at least three or four hours
with you um i initially said an hour we're at an hour and a half right now so i do want to be
respectful of your time yeah my phone just went down to 20 so we only have 20 percent left okay
sneak in a couple more do you have a couple minutes sure sure thank you so much again you're
well beyond the time i said to expect so everybody uh in everybody in chat's loving this
uh by the way but please you know extra extra love to jj for for just taking the extra time man
and hanging out chat uh if you guys have questions go ahead and throw them up i'm gonna get to my
one first uh but you you had a u-dub cross and uh out here on the west coast we have the
university of washington which we call u-dub and there is this old story that they were growing uh
experimental medicinal cannabis and somebody broke into there and they got the cuts and then
for a while there was some really good weed going around and everybody called it that u-dub that's
the story so i don't know if you know anything about that or if it's even related no i mean i
think i might have heard that story once before but um i actually had two cuttings of u-dub i had
you know i had the actual u-dub and and then what did they call the other one um pnp pacific northwest
hash plant so one was purple one was kind of one was would just turn straight up purple it was more
taller look more indigo sativa hybrid um it had kind of a great berry kind of a tip to it and then
the one the the the u-dub that i used um was more was short and kind of had like a cat pissy kind of
a smell to it a little bit and you know when you and when you burned it it it kind of had a very
unique kind of a smell um in in the air to it kind of very kind of spicy like almost like bubba ish
almost um so it really uh pointed towards you know a pure more of a pure indigo or or or hash
plant type of uh of a plant okay but i don't know that but the origins of it i i i really don't know
i know it's a very old pacific northwest um you know it's you know yeah i mean it might have you
know origins back to the original hash plant that went to um sensi uh originally so um yeah that's
that's all and then i got it from someone from um from washington so um yeah i was just lucky
yeah it was something that i was able to have um i lost it you know but i was able to make seeds
with it and you know that's the way it goes i'd love to get it back if anyone ever has it just
hit me up i'll be willing to trade and i'll you know anything for trade yep yep uh shoot let's
let's get i'll get a couple questions up here um i know dog days had asked earlier uh jj can you
talk about hp7 and then down here we have what about hp21 uh can you maybe tell people what the
the hp and the numbers are yeah well the hp7 came from a breeding that i made so i had the um
that that was a the original male that was a double dog hp1 and then i crossed that
to the puck and then i took a male of that and crossed it to the hp13 so then i um
so i popped some of those seeds and the hp7 that was number seven but that was like the shortest
plant out of that run so everything else was big and stretchy kind of like the hp13
but but that number seven was really short and squat and that really more resembled the puck
so that was the um that was the story behind the number seven it was you know it's something that
was just you know everything else is big and that was short you know so it's something that you kind
of like oh look at that that's not something that's different you know so and it was different
you know and so um yeah i did that and i did a little bit of breeding with that and um the hp21
um i wound up finding out what the well i wound up finding the the original mother of the hp13
you know um this from what i remember back in the day um of the hp13 from the original people
and some of the strains that they used to talk about uh at the end that were available at the
same time so i was always i was always intrigued by that certain strain there it's a land race
strain and numerous people sell it you know there's at least on the market now like two or
three different people that sell it and you know i would buy buy it grow it out and be like all
right that's that's not it and then you know i did it like two times and then uh so an obscured
kind of popped up on the internet and there's just an old collector and he claimed to have
these strains and so i was like all right you know i'll buy a pack so i bought a pack
and there was two i think i only popped four seeds they were all female two of them were big
and stretchy and the other two were kind of more shorter and they were more kind of single stalk
like afghan type plants and um so i was growing them and then i started smelling one of the
more stressier ones i was like whoa what is this it's like really garlicky and i'm like you know
you know and then i didn't recognize it right off the bat but i knew it was something
and then when i finally finished it and finished the flower it was just you know
you know the light bulb went off on my head i was like 18 and so uh yeah i uh you know i was like
this is it you know and so i was you know the thing that i thought that i had closest to it
was um that same male that i used um for hb 13 so i used that but what had happened was when i got
the u-dub i i crossed that into the u-dub and then i back crossed it twice so i had that sitting
i had pollen actually sitting there and so once i got that i just touched that up and i um
created the hp 21 and really the hp 21 stands for the year that i made it in it was 2021
and funny enough i um met eddie the grower well he's correct he's he's the one that's
accredited with bringing the hp 13 to the masses now i thought that he was the original breeder
but um i just saw him in uh last month in um in new york and he came to the expo and he came up
to my booth he bought a pack of seeds from me and later in the day we went out we started talking
and then i started talking to him about the hp 13 and i was like yeah what did you do to breed the
13 he said i was not the breeder but i like to consider myself uh the caretaker
so the story that he told me was that um they had uh the mother they had the mother strain
in california and then they had a tie in a land race you know in a land race a hash plant
so i think they were growing a tie up there and it wasn't finishing in time so they went and got
this land race hash plant they crossed the land race hash plant into the um you know into the tie
and then they took a male and then they crossed that into the mother of the of the uh hp 13
and i like to call it the jane doe so i call it the jane doe cush um so that's what i call it and
um so that's the story that he tells me and i guess that uh he and the story was that they
made this cross um he wound up with a bunch of seeds uh brought him back down to new york
popped them um found that number 13 uh that and that one became the hp 13
um he wound up getting busted he lost all of the seeds and he lost hp 13 um but when he came when
he was there i wound up giving him i gave him a pack of the jane doe back cross so that was the j
jane doe times the u-dub uh back cross two uh and then i back crossed that into the jane doe
so i was like you'll find that hp 13 you know in there so he was like really psyched about that so
that was just last month so wow yeah man the the number of classics you've had in your hands over
the years of just backbones you could almost call them is freaking mind-blowing well i mean it just
goes back on your experiences and knowing genetics you know so you know and then being able to source
them you know i've been you know i've been fortunate enough i've had a lot of people that
have shared with me if it wasn't for that um i wouldn't be who i am so you know a lot of you know
respect goes out to those people but a lot of people come to me and they're like hey listen i
want you to have this i want you to work this i want you to preserve this and i want you to do
something you know to make this uh you know not you know disappear and to continue genetics and so
i mean that's that's what i do you know i mean i love finding to me i'm more interested in an old
and now pure indigo uh some of the stuff that that um you know that um
todd mccormick's work with riot the nl5 uh csi some of the nl5 hey you know nl5 stuff the old stuff
um i kind of geek out on that stuff a little bit more than kind of like your newest oreo
brunts or whatever the white troubles or you know i mean that like when you when you
say that stuff to me i i have like really no interest in it whatsoever because to me
it's just like a reshuffling of different stuff that we already know what it is you know i mean
i'm looking for buried classic stuff roadkill skunk uh you know a lot of the old nl you know
a lot of the classic stuff you know i mean the stuff the that's the foundation of the strings
that we have today and really the the remnants of what and those are the remnants of what we have
today and so um yeah i'm more excited about land races and like old old stuff and hunting through
stuff like that than i am on the modern era stuff i just don't i mean i don't even really keep up
with it i don't know really know what the newest hot thing is i know uh archive did that rainbow
belt or whatever but at least he put some effort into it he actually did some breeding
and some of that stuff you know um but none of that stuff is really appealing to me that nothing
that i would really want to work with but don't get me wrong if someone offered me a cutting of it
and be like hey you want this and i'll just throw the sourdees on and we'll see what happens you
know i mean but i'm not gonna go out of my way looking for it or being like oh i need to have
this or whatever it's just um there's not anything out there that really sparks my interest well
that's that's awesome uh and that's why i'm a big fan and a big supporter and i want to let before
there's one more question i want to ask before your phone dies but before we do that uh please
let people know where they can find you where can they find your work where can they find what you're
up to um what are some good spots um we are on instagram the real top dog seeds uh you can find
me also on discord uh top dog seeds uh you could always email me at top dog seeds at at proton
mail.com i'm also on facebook jj edwards um if you just put in a search of top dog
and google google top dog and you'll just a wide variety of things will come up um a lot of our
distributors where you find our seeds um you can you can buy seeds from me directly if you email
me or go on discord uh yeah and you know the the um the information is just you know so widespread
now that being able to uh hook up person to person um you weren't really able to do that back in the
day uh now you can pretty much you know contact the breeder directly uh so uh yeah i have a small
mail order business going on and you get a free pack of seeds whatever you order
cool and and somebody in chat has already mentioned that uh ordering direct you get the
hook up it's well worth it so go and do it go and do it um man and and those two uh instagram and
discord are down in the show notes below everybody so if you want a quick clickable link just go into
the show notes those will be down there and uh you can find that and okay again i really appreciate
your time and staying late hopefully we've got time well battery for this last question uh
we're raising their ears i haven't i haven't gotten to temper i haven't gotten to
ten percent warning yet all right that's good okay well i want to get this one up here again
dog day's garden uh big fan and big supporter of yours as well he's running quite a few things
um but he asks uh about his ask about his dnl and mass super skunk work
um and he asked again about the dnl so maybe maybe if you want to elaborate on that one
um well the dnl originally came from um came from uh the weasel the original genetics um
were found at a show a grateful dead show i think 1991 down at rfk stadium in washington dc
um him and a buddy bought a bag of kind bud and found 10 seeds so um he wound up um
growing some of them out um that became the skunk one two and three um another friend of his wanted
to start growing i think he wound up he started growing um he gave him the skunk one um and he
wound up giving him some seeds also so uh he wound up making his own cross i think he had uh
it was the it was uh the hawaii i think he had some hawaiian he had the hawaiian seeds he had
gotten from sensi i think he only had found males out of that so he crossed that into the skunk one
or the nl i'm not quite sure i think yeah i think it was hawaiians hawaiian nl then
me and then crossed into the um skunk one but i'm not exactly sure precisely on that but i just know
those three are in them so you know he just he used to call it you know um you know he used to
call it nl you know and then like yeah that's not really real nl you know and then you know
then it'd be like the dnl so uh originally i originally we thought that and there was chem
in it but there wasn't you know there wasn't you know so we used to just call it like the nl like
dnl and so i just kind of got i kind of like stuck the dnl you know so uh yeah so i used
uh that cutting and uh i um you know i just crossed a you know a few different things into
it you know uh we thought that might have been in the um you know in the um sour but it's hard to
say you know there's a lot of you know a lot of different theories on that um i've been told a lot
of different stories over the years you know by the weasel and but a friend of mine pointed out
that i don't think the weasel ever had the dnl in this room you know so i don't you know i don't
know if it's really in if that really had it might have been a super skunk uh um is this the one
thing that people never know uh like i said like i've you know i've always been kind of
stickler on history because it was just weed and people be like what is this and what is that and
people wanted to know these details so you know i became a weed nerd myself and i always wanted to
know these details as well so we never really got you know that got to the bottom and i don't
think we'll ever really there's other stories out there that may or may not be true i can only say
what i know and what what i think may be the truth i can't you know stand by you know and then
the colorado super skunk um i wound up getting uh you know the super skunk uh the max super skunk
cutting uh i got seeds from duke diamond it was the basic skunk which was um i think it was super
sativa uh seed club skunk one times nl five and then times that times i think it was the illuminati
stardom so he gave me those seeds and so i i crossed that into um the super skunk and when i
saw duke diamond that um i was at the part one of the last um emerald cups uh he had samples of that
basic skunk and i remember smelling the jar and i was just like whoa man that shit's like
it wasn't spot on not super skunk but it was like i could smell it in there it was like i could smell
it in there it was just missing a little something here it was like it was there
tease and it was pretty close you just need to i mean if you uh feel hunted a little more you
might have found the right one you know and so but he was he told me he was under restrictions on
letting that go and so he had everything that he crossed it into was like three way before he
released it but he wound up giving he wound up giving me like 10 packs of that and then he's like
if you look in there you're gonna find them so i just really uh i i just used the mail and used it
for that out cross uh i wound up um sending him a few packs back recently you know since he's got
out you know i guess he had lost everything he gave me 10 packs there's no way i was gonna
throw all 10 so i wound up sending him like two or three packs back to him so he's gonna start
working with that uh basic skunk uh start off and some maybe might see something come out of them
with him soon. Nice, very nice. I like his work and from like the breeder perspective one thing i really
enjoy uh is he gives a lot of details about the plants for people who buy the seed pack so kind
of like you he knows what the plant's gonna offer he knows what the plants are gonna do and just from
you know i don't know maybe it's age or whatever uh that's just so important it seems like a basic
thing so uh i'm glad that you do it. It's all about experience it's experience and passion
because i love to weed you know so. Yeah well don't don't we all.
Just trying to pass that on my experiences pass those experiences on to other people.
Yeah well i've i've definitely enjoyed your sharing today i know everybody listening has
enjoyed your sharing today the door is absolutely open anytime you want to come back uh talk about
birds talk about juice drains any anything door's open for you JJ. Yeah anytime just let me know
yeah anytime just let me know you know.
Cool i will come on anytime. Cool i will do that uh real quick before we get out of here guys just
a couple quick bits of housekeeping uh Wednesday i will be back with uh Dave's not here and Masonic
Smoker we're doing another seed collectors episode so we're going to be here uh and then next
Saturday the Friendly Cannabis Show we're going to have Professor DeBacco from DeBacco University
so that's what we've got coming up. Thanks for tuning in today thanks for being in chat thanks
for enjoying and uh we'll catch everybody next time. Party on. Peace out everyone.
