What is up, Living Soil nerds?
Fashionably late today.
Marco had some issues with work and a bunch of other stuff
behind the scenes.
But we appreciate you guys being patient with us.
Each and every Wednesday, we're coming at you guys trying
to bring not necessarily all of one side
of the view of cultivation.
We like to kind of like jump out of the box
every now and then.
So I think more individuals are starting to see that you
get to pick your lane.
And something else that I admire about individuals
like our guest today, London, is not only
is it about picking your own lane,
but sometimes it's taking risks.
And people sometimes take foolish risks.
And I think there's a difference in calculated risk.
And so when you're planning something,
when you're thinking things through and thinking
about moving from Canada to Italy
and what that would involve with a family and a wife
and the monetary things that you would need
and then the things that you don't need and all of that,
it really comes down to believing in yourself
as a hustle.
And so that's why I wanted to title the show with London
today about if an individual really understands
what it takes to hustle, then they
can find that situation wherever they live,
wherever they move to.
That's just something that I think that not everybody has.
And so it's kind of the, I don't know,
the motto for some individuals for that
was always kind of like as grapes.
And so we were joking about if the grapes don't sell,
then we'll dry those motherfuckers up
and we're going to sell raisins.
And it's because we're always thinking about moving forward
and finding ways to better ourselves and better our family.
And so today is a special one for me
because we get to interview London, where he's,
he was joking before we came live here,
that he's in the hot seat.
We get to talk to him on a lot of the adventures
that he's going out of.
He's also kind of jumping out of the box
and trying to interview a variety of different people.
It was just in Spanivis.
We're going to get into that and a variety of different topics.
But as we wait for Marco to be able to pop on here,
I wanted to throw it over to London.
Let us know exactly what's going on.
I know it's probably like 1130, 1115 where you're at.
So we appreciate you with this late night show for us
here in America.
I got no problem doing a late night show
and you know I do the day and counter.
And that actually starts at 2 a.m. for me.
So I am excited to be here and used to being up late.
But yeah, I'm pumped.
It's been a hell of a few weeks and it's been a lot of fun.
We came over and we popped over to Spanivis.
We got to see a lot of what's going on locally.
We're getting ourselves introduced as much as possible.
As you can see, I am filming from the farm.
We have a small fireplace that eats most of our house.
Essentially our living room and kitchen.
So that's brewing in the background.
And we don't even have Internet yet.
It's not exactly easy to do some things here.
There can be some big challenges in the process.
And taking those in stride is really important.
One thing that we've had so far,
so we just want to give everybody a heads up.
It shouldn't happen.
We've got great clean connections so far.
But I have run into some Internet issues.
So we haven't been able to get an actual Wi-Fi system
set up here with the proper connectivity.
So we're running everything through a cell phone
right now on the hot spot.
Good thing is, is it's eight euros for 70 gigs of data here.
So it's very cheap and very affordable
and it makes it totally capable of being done here.
So I'm super pumped to be on the show today with you, Brian.
And I know Marco's close behind.
I'm sure we're going to have a lot of fun, eh?
Yeah, still bringing some of that Canadian charm over to Italy.
So as we, like you mentioned, like we're waiting for Marco.
So I don't want to get too deep into everything that you're doing.
So we can have a great dialogue here.
But do you mind kind of talking about
what made you want to move to Italy?
And of course, you know, you have a wife,
you have two beautiful children, two daughters, beautiful children.
You know, I mean, it's something that as a man,
you have to kind of sit back and I'm sure there's some nights
where you're like, man, am I really going to do this?
But that's what I loved about seeing you follow through.
And I mentioned that, you know, in the post that I made about you this morning
is because I love not many individuals.
I hear a lot of people talk about what they all these grand plans
they have for life and most I catch up with them and they're not
they're not following through on that kind of stuff or it's,
you know, they're telling me, oh, I got to I got to do this or I got to
I got to fill out a few things.
There are a few individuals that do seem to be rocking that
and you're at the forefront of that search.
So I kind of wanted to get into that while we're while we're waiting.
And what made you have the drive and the conviction and confidence to say,
you know what, I'm moving the family across across the world
and I am confident that I'm going to be able to do this and find my own path.
Well, you know, I don't know if
I don't know if if confidence is the right key
is so much as being a little bit fucking crazy.
And and honestly, just going with what you say you do.
You know, we talked about this a little bit before the show,
but I'll get into a little bit more.
I think there's there's a criticality in life that sometimes you have to do
what you say you're going to do.
We all have these big ambitions and dreams.
We all have these awesome things that we want to do.
It's taking those first steps and making them happen.
Doesn't necessarily mean they're going to go well.
Doesn't necessarily mean they're going to be easy.
Doesn't necessarily mean we're going to even make your life any better for a while.
But you got to take that first step.
And, you know, we we did that over the last little while.
And one of the I think we want to focus on is is is the decision
to actually step into this mode that we had.
I happen to have a great opportunity being related and having family in Italy.
Having the opportunity to be able to get a little bit of an easier step up.
But that doesn't mean that you shouldn't, you know, do the next step
towards what your little thing because you don't have those advantages.
And sometimes we get into these ruts.
Now, I spent last few years, last five years in a basement suite in North Vancouver,
enjoying my life with my little ones, walking my my daughter to school each day
and developing the media here at Future Cannabis Project.
But one of the things that we needed was a change.
We were getting in the same routine, which isn't necessarily wrong,
but we we weren't exactly happy.
You know, there were there were signs of that.
There was conflict.
There were challenges.
There was. Some issues like that, not a big problem,
so not not major little things, but, you know, little stuff and a lot of it.
And it came from, you know, not not lack of ownership,
lack of lack of of of being able to control one's life
because in North America, we just couldn't afford things.
It just got so expensive in Vancouver.
You know, we're looking at for a two bedroom apartment, two bedrooms.
Living room, that's it.
Apartment in downtown Vancouver, you know, a modest kitchen
is about three and a half to four thousand dollars.
That's a lot of money, man.
It's just not affordable.
And it comes close to being at a point where, A, I get away from the dirt.
I don't get to plant in the soil.
I don't get to put my hands in dirt every day.
Like I am well working.
You can't see him as clearly as possible, but there are blisters on these hands.
And that's because I am out there with a hoe
hand tilling one acre of of lot every day trying to work forward on doing it.
We haven't done much.
I'm not going to say we've done a lot.
And actually, the stone, the soil here is a little bit stony.
So it's a lot of hard work.
But you have to take those initial steps.
So essentially, we got to a point and we found out last year
that I was going to be able to get citizenship in Italy through my ancestry.
Yeah, sorry, I didn't twist it up enough for you, Mike.
What about Bob? I'll give a little twist.
And we didn't have enough.
We looked at it.
And one thing happened is is a we realized that the car
that I had financed the previous three years
had not really depreciated in value at all, which was amazing.
As as you usually buy a car and as you use it, it costs you a lot of money.
So we looked at it and it's like you have a Toyota.
Yeah, Toyota RAV4.
Yeah.
Yeah. And we took great care of it.
We didn't run it to shit.
We didn't break it down.
We took care of our shit.
And and because of that, we were able to sell it and and and, you know,
have a good little nest start, nest egg to start and get us up and started.
So we did.
And that's that's kind of that was that was like, OK, we can do that.
What what what are we waiting for?
What's the point of being here in Canada any longer?
I got no room to plant.
I've got, you know, my little grow, which everybody's seen this,
that and the other on the other shows and my interviews
and with my background, gardening and stuff like that.
It there was enough room.
I was always trying to explore.
There is always a challenge of doing that.
And I wasn't able to get into the dirt.
I was able to put my hands in the soil as much as I would like.
So I needed to fix that.
And we needed to fix that.
My kids needed room to play.
They needed an area to run around.
They needed a community.
One of the biggest things that that why we didn't really drive us to leave,
but focused on or push out was the North American in Vancouver, especially.
There is a there's a great distance between people,
you know, like you walk down the street, you don't say hi to your neighbor.
You know, you walk down quietly, keep your head down and keep walking.
You know, there's there's not that there are moments in time
and there are friendly people out there.
But, you know, if someone were to come over and talk and stare at your kid,
it would make you uncomfortable because, you know, this is
this is a world that we live in in that space, whereas here it's completely different.
It's the exact opposite.
It's a place where people say hi to one and every person walking down the street.
Like as a Canadian, we pride ourselves on being friendly.
These people are friendly as fuck, man.
It's ridiculous.
They invite you into their home.
They invite you into their culture, their family.
They sit next to you and they and they talk.
And and it and it create and we knew this is where we needed to be.
And we knew that we were just muddling around if we didn't move any for sure.
We might not have enough or or not that we didn't have enough.
Sure. It might be a big challenge.
Like no Internet, like fucking no heating,
like some basic stuff that's that's quite challenging.
But who cares?
That's the fun. Let's do it.
And what are we waiting for?
Because we're going to have to face those challenges anyways.
So let's jump into it.
So essentially, I think it was when when was it, babe?
Like March?
No, it was when we decided November, December.
Yeah. To finalize the date.
November, right?
So November hit last year and we're like, let's do it.
That's my wife, by the way, in the background.
Let's go. Let's let's do it.
We're going to go in March.
And I told my mom, you know what?
Hey, you want to buy me a nice Christmas present?
Buy me two tickets.
Buy us tickets
to come to Italy and we'll come there for three months.
And she said, no problem.
That's awesome. We'd love to have you.
And that was, you know, that was amazing.
And so we had a date set that was locked in stone.
And there was no option to change.
You know, like you don't get your ticket back.
If you put your name wrong on the ticket, you don't get to fly.
Like there it's done.
So we left.
And that's that's kind of the tall and short of of why we left
and the reasons why we're here.
More or less, I think that answers it.
Well, let's talk kind of more.
So when you're moving to Italy, like
I would imagine the homes are roughly the size of America and Canada.
Right. Or at least in Vancouver and stuff.
Yeah, I mean, we live in a.
OK, this is a great opportunity to to show you guys a picture of my
of my new home. It's nighttime right now.
So unfortunately, we don't have the ability to show you every last bit.
But I would like to I did manage to get home just before the sunset today.
Because of that, I was able to take some awesome photos of.
Do you mind sharing roughly what you paid for?
Roughly what you paid like.
So in Denver, Colorado, 60 ish, 60 ish, 60K.
So to get to get a basic home in Colorado, maybe maybe if you hunt,
you could get, you know, an extra garage or something.
But you're talking half a million dollars, 400 to 500 thousand dollars
in most of anywhere that's kind of touches the city.
I would imagine in Italy, that's a whole nother ballpark
when you're talking that kind of money.
Let's let's get into what it seems like if you find ways like you have
to to just move your family, the burden of finding unbelievable money
just to survive kind of goes away.
It seems like once you've gotten to your destination.
I had. Speaking at least once while muted during the show,
otherwise it wouldn't be a TV production.
But so here's the picture and this is it.
This is our home.
So if you can see there, we live in a truly.
So there's about as truly as is is meant to be these
these ancient structures that were built in 14 or 1500s.
And please, guys, I'm probably off with my time.
I'm not like I have a good memory for for words and structure and stuff,
but dates not so good.
So I apologize.
But around 14, 15, maybe 1600, maybe 17, 18, who knows?
But they're old. They're fucking old.
And the idea was is they were actually built by by the they were allowed.
They were they permitted essentially these these this army
that had failed to to take over this area of Italy
had had landed themselves here and they couldn't get back
because all the ships were burned.
So they said, hey, if you let us work on your land, you know, we will
we will stay and we'll work on the land.
So and we'll help you and we'll do this. Right.
And so they said, OK, yeah, sure.
You can build your homes.
So they built these temporary homes that were individually laid stone.
Every single brick was hand chosen and set down and and and organized in a way.
Now, these these room, these houses have four four and a half foot fall
four and a half foot wide.
15th century, 14th century, 14th century.
I got my my my my wife checking the data in the back of a 14th century
home and they zoom in a little bit, so they got about five and a half foot.
Walls, see if I can get a better shot.
Regardless, I don't want to focus on that.
They're about five foot walls.
So if you try and make a phone call in your bedroom, it ain't happening, period.
That's not going to happen.
But regardless, so these were individually laid stones.
They're all affixed.
Now they cement all of this in now.
They originally just hand laid all the way up to the top.
So you start at the top of one of these homes and you can actually go
all the way down to the bottom pretty, pretty quick, pretty quickly.
I want to see if you get right here so you can.
That's a much better photo for this. Yes.
So you can see and you can't see they've cemented it in now.
So this used to be handling the stone.
If you go to the very top, there's a top top stone
that kind of sets everything together, much like you would in a dome.
Pop that stone on top.
So once you take that stone off, you should be able to hand
take this whole thing apart traditionally.
So these these homes are not super well renovated.
Most of them are actually dilapidated and abandoned.
But because of that, you can get them for really, really, really,
really, really, really, really cheap.
There are places where you can get them for a dollar
and you have to show a certain amount of investment income
and that you're going to you're going to put time into it.
But you can get them for very, very cheap.
You know, we got we got one that was a little bit finished
and around, you know, $60,000 in EU.
But this allowed us an acre of land.
And actually we're under
kind of a renter buyer agreement.
If after a year we want to, you know, fully purchase
and own the house that we will and we have full choice on that matter
and they can pretty much the only way they could get out of it is by saying,
I'm going to move my family in here, which is a pretty easy thing to say.
But regardless, they're not going to.
It's very, very, very, very unlikely.
So we get we get about a year to be able to rent and live in this space
and decide whether or not we're going to stay here long term.
And we want it now.
Like I'm just so fucking done.
I'm ready to go.
This is this is home for me now.
And we've been here for about two weeks and I do not plan on changing it.
So, yeah, that's that's kind of where we where we got to and how we landed
in these beautiful homes, like I said, are are old and they're cold
and they're made, they're designed to keep the heat out, not the heat in.
And while it is a little bit warmer down here, typically than, you know, Canada,
it's not warm, warm.
So it does get a little bit cool.
So we have to heat the house with a little bit of fireplace
and a little bit of heaters and kind of make it work.
But yeah, because of that, it makes things a lot easier and a lot more fun.
Did that that's more or less the short and tall.
I may say that too many times. I can't say it.
Hey, Marco, how's it going?
Yeah, let's bring Marco on here.
You're muted there, Mark. Yeah.
What's up, family man?
Stressful day, man.
I'm loving that so far, London.
Just let me I don't want to jump in and get in the way, man.
Just let me just tag on and catch the vibe.
Y'all are already on here.
Yeah, we're just kind of talking about at least while we were waiting for you,
you know, in Denver, Colorado, half a million dollars is
is a basic family home nowadays, which is sad, really.
I mean, I know people want their homes to go up in value, but I mean, these are
these are pretty basic housing for that.
So we were talking about what what he can get in Italy.
And when you're talking about more about land and the things more that
I would say this community is after,
it's kind of a fun little dialogue while we were waiting for it.
Yeah, yeah. The house looks amazing.
I didn't catch what year that was built.
It looks a couple hundred years old.
Easy, right? What the hell is that baby?
You're muted there, London.
14th century, my wife's doing secret background research on Google
to make sure I don't totally
remember is about 14th century.
I wouldn't I wouldn't I wouldn't be able to.
So when I first heard about this, you know,
when you're looking at property around the world,
how do you like who's brokering the deal?
Are you are you setting up some kind of escrow?
Are you talking to the property owner yourself and just trusting that
when you get there, everything's going to be the way this individual's
saying it's going to be?
No, you don't. I got lucky.
My family, I have half of my mom and my stepdad live up in Florence
and actually help people to move to Italy.
They happen. They did so about five, six years ago
and have thus like decided to, you know, make a little business out of it
and help people move to Italy.
So because of that, they happen to help work with residential lawyers,
with with, you know, citizenship lawyers, with
with real estate agents to help people when they in the process.
So once once you decide you're going to move there, what are you going to do?
You got to figure out if you can, if you can.
And I win the lottery. I'll be very, very clear.
I really have won the lottery in my life.
I don't believe I'm here half the time I go to sleep and I'm going to wake up
somewhere else because this is just a dream.
But really, when it comes down to it, is I got lucky.
My dad's dad, dad was Italian and was born in Italy.
And throughout the process of them immigrating to Canada,
no one denounced their Italian heritage.
So due to that fact, I can apply.
And if I can show that line of heritage and petition the court,
I can actually apply for a citizenship of Italy.
So that's why specifically we chose Italy.
That being said, we've visited here multiple times.
This is a place that I know and love.
So it's a no brainer.
It was like it was like winning the lottery for me.
And on top of that, there's a couple other things that happen with that, too.
You know, as an EU citizen, my kids can go to any EU country
and get the same privileges that are provided in that country.
So if they want to be a medical doctor or a doctor,
they go be a doctor and they can go through all of university for completely free.
I can't like there's no better opportunity than that for them to be able to move forward.
Free health care, right? State health care.
Pretty, pretty good health care services.
You know, like people live well into their age.
The biggest thing for me and as a chef, like that's my background as a chef.
Before I got into any well, don't have this consuming cannabis my whole life.
But before I got into any of the media content,
before I got into any of the media content,
my big thing was a chef and I worked at high level restaurants all over the world.
And the food here is very, very fresh and very, very healthy.
So nothing's gassed, nothing's irradiated.
All of it is all of it that's produced at the grocery store is is typically
within 15 minutes of that grocery store of a drive.
So there's no chance for it.
Right. Like, you know,
I was going to say I read something the other day, man, a guy was 109
and he said the key to that longevity is the food and having access to it
was one of the big keys. So for you to make that move, that's that's huge.
Having great fresh food that close to you, 15 minutes all the time, you know, huge.
And, you know, I think that's the biggest thing.
I think that's the biggest thing.
I think that's the biggest thing.
I think that's the biggest thing.
And but the biggest thing is like because I can find great fresh food in Vancouver,
I can find great fresh food wherever I go.
Can I afford it?
You know, can I actually afford to put that in anything?
And the fact of the matter is, is in Canada, I wasn't able to do that.
The only thing that I was able to afford was subsidy provided grains
that was produced for mass amounts and then stored for years.
You know, we're talking about highly processed food,
there just wasn't a possibility to be able to afford high quality ingredients
and stuff that are from my local farm.
Because the cost didn't make sense between gas, their living, their cost of living
as a farming in an acre of land 10 years ago in B.C. was worth a hundred thousand dollars.
Like just an acre of the land that's untouched and completely on the middle of fucking nowhere.
It didn't make sense.
So, you know, I think that's the biggest thing.
I think that's the biggest thing.
I think that's the biggest thing.
I think that's the biggest thing.
It didn't make sense.
So, yeah, it's impossible.
Right?
So, we were, yeah, so we found like here we got, as a chef, I used to buy,
I have this love, love of blood oranges, you know, like these deep red colored, beautiful oranges.
And you can't, like in Canada, you can hardly find them.
But I used to be able to buy them as working in very high level restaurants.
You know, I got to, I got to purchase the best produce, the best food from all over the world.
And I was able to have it come in because we were able to charge exorbitant amount of money
because we had rich people come by.
So, because of that, I remember paying $25 a pound for these blood oranges.
We went to our Friday market and there are a dollar a kilo, which is 2.2 pounds
of these most beautiful, like I just, I got to show you this fucking orange guys.
Like it's fucking nuts.
I'm going to tell you man, fruit from the store, you can't beat it.
When fruit is from very close by where it's grown and it's fresh off the tree or off the vine,
you just can't beat that flavor.
And the color, man.
That's the other thing that really gives it away.
If it's quality and fresh.
I see that and you're like, we have like a Cherry Creek Farmer's Market
where it's all supposedly high end.
And the coloring and everything is just beautiful.
Yeah, it's like it's not picked off a plant like way early in green
and then gassed and then shipped up like all of the food is in Canada.
And yeah, color is definitely a big thing.
So, I want to put in trees.
So, we're actually saving all of our blood orange seeds.
And I know this is not the perfect way for breeding oranges and picking the best stuff
for the best area.
You probably want to asexually reproduce this stuff and find it there, but I don't give a fuck.
I got time and I got family and I got everything I need to be able to,
you know, take a little bit extra time and do some stuff.
So, we save all of our seeds from these blood oranges to allow ourselves,
you know, the opportunity of maybe finding a really special or unique plant or cultivar.
But if you can have a look at that.
Damn, that's like mosaic.
It's like rainbows, right?
Stained glass windows.
Stained glass.
Boom.
That shit looks delicious.
It is.
It is amazing.
And it's like, you know, it's not the prettiest on the outside, but it's perfect.
It's exactly, it was harvested when it was ready to go.
And it's the most delicious thing you can have.
And on top of that, I got pounds of it for like two year hosts.
It was absolutely nuts.
So, we go each week and we buy some of these things in a larger volume.
And because we can go to the farm from there and it'll last.
But mostly we pick up each day, we go out and grab a few little things.
You know, what we want to make for dinner that night.
What's the farm got?
What's the grocery store got fresh?
You know, what's going on there?
I got a big four in a oven.
So, we tried to make pizza today.
I cannot cook with fire yet.
I am still learning that.
It's not going well.
But we tried and that's part of the fun, right?
Slowing it down.
Slowing it down.
Let's cook tonight.
Let's go to the market and get those ingredients for our meal tonight.
You know what I mean?
Slowing it down.
That's lovely that you have the luxury.
And you know what?
You did that, right?
You did that, though.
You did actions to put yourself where you are.
You wanted that lifestyle.
You're a chef.
I love cooking, too.
We're the same way.
And that's one thing that really is important.
And that's kind of why I'm grinding now.
Grinding now.
So, one day when I'm ready, I can do that.
I really just, you know, hopefully sooner than later.
You know?
And you're blessed to be able to do it whenever you can.
But yeah, London, I know, man.
Just cooking.
If you love to cook, then just being able to get those ingredients.
I bet your meals have just been off the chain right now.
Well, you don't have to do anything.
I'm not going to do anything.
I'm going to cook.
I'm going to cook.
I'm going to cook.
I'm going to cook.
I'm going to cook.
I'm going to cook.
I'm going to cook.
I'm going to cook.
You don't have to do anything either.
It's so simple.
And you just let the ingredients do what they do and speak for themselves.
Right?
There's no work involved at that point in time.
I know you ate cooking.
Because you might not enjoy it.
Yeah, like what's the vibe like?
Like when you're just around in town, what are people on?
Are people just like hustling and bustling?
Or is it kind of like people just kind of living that life?
What are you feeling?
Okay.
This is where it gets interesting.
I'm really on point here that I think is interesting for the culture here.
Now, there is a saying that I think you guys may or may not love.
Or you may hate it and think it's absolutely ridiculous.
But it's piano, piano.
And this is a very Tuscan saying.
Not really of the Puglia area where I'm from.
But further up north where you would see Florence.
Those type of areas.
And this piano, piano means slowly, slowly.
Take your time.
Enjoy your family.
Take moments with the people around you that you share space with.
Take these moments and enjoy them.
You know, like, okay.
You want to know what's fucked up?
I went to the butcher.
And this guy loved his product so much that he just grabbed it.
I'm like, can I have some salsiccia, which is sausage?
And he goes, yeah, yeah.
He's like, you know I make this.
Like I go outside and I pick the herbs and I make this here.
And of course I got no fucking clue what he's saying.
And he grabs the sausage and just cuts it open, squeezes it, pushes it into a piece of plastic and hands it to me.
He's like, eat it.
Just eat it.
You know, it's those moments.
Like take a pause.
Don't worry about rushing about getting your sausage.
Have a discussion with the guy that's making it.
Have those points of conversations.
Those moments.
And I think if we were to do those things in North America and if every one of us were to take and involve those things into our life,
we would have a way different community than we have now.
Cool.
Yeah.
It's interesting how America's lifestyle is just constantly on the go.
And certain European lifestyles is more like, you know, it's not necessarily it's not like you guys aren't on the go.
It's just somehow you guys seem like you never sleep.
From what I understand, isn't more of the Italian lifestyle?
You guys are enjoying late night wine and cheeses and all the stuff you're not supposed to supposedly if you're trying to be healthy.
Don't get me wrong.
You got to work.
You got to work, right?
That's life.
You got to work.
You got to get it done.
You got to say what you're going to do.
And you got to go do it.
And that means you go outside and you work until you have Worcester sauce on your hands.
You know, like you work very hard.
But that means when you do those moments of hard work and you move yourself forward,
you get to take those moments to slow down and take a moment to do so.
Like you got to get it done.
It's not.
One of the other thing challenges that they face here is, you know, in the summer, there's some extreme heat.
Like we were in Barcelona for a little bit and talk about late nights.
I thought the Italians stayed up late doing stuff.
I mean, these Spanish guys, I don't know.
Maybe it's so hot that they're just so used to siestas that they do it all year long.
But it was ridiculous.
It was absolutely ridiculous how early, how late they would go early.
Like I mean early morning.
4 or 5 a.m. was not that odd.
I mean we were walking home from post events at 2 a.m.
And like Chilbert, I got to run into Chilbert who's in the chat.
There's a few people in the chat right now that I got to hang out with in Spanavis.
And every bar, every blog had at least 3 bars.
And every single one of them were completely packed until like 2 a.m. when they closed.
And then everybody kind of comes on their feet and they're like walking around with their fucking whole family.
Like it's the whole family.
There's no separation.
No other, no.
This is adult space and this is adult activity.
Oh, hey adult.
Liam's in there.
Is he not?
Oh.
We got a guest visit.
We have a very small house.
I just saw one person go to the bathroom.
I'm like what?
My wife's going to the bathroom?
That's weird.
But yeah, so we got to take some of those moments.
Like ecological projects.
We got to hang out and sit down with them and spend until 1 a.m.
Drinking sangria in the middle of Barcelona.
And chatting.
Eating crackers.
Tapas.
I know y'all are eating tapas.
Eat all night long.
Oh, the food was so bad.
It was terrible at that restaurant.
There was some great food in Barcelona.
Don't get me wrong.
But the one restaurant that we had in the room was not super great.
But the sangrias, they went down quickly.
And that's a little bit dangerous.
And we talked a little bit.
We're talking a little bit a lot about like I mentioned booze.
And talking about wine.
What I like to talk about is like the cannabis culture.
I think that's something that's really interesting and different.
And there's something that really brings it forward.
Is totally open.
Totally available CBD.
So they have marijuana light.
And it's CBD.
I got some CBD hash here.
It's typical European hash.
I got some other stuff.
And I got some CBD flower as well.
And this stuff is that.
It's like a CBD flower.
And it's like a CBD flower.
And it's like a CBD flower.
And this stuff is actually totally killer.
I don't know if you can see it.
But it's a beautiful product.
And you go to a tobacco shop.
You know where you go buy your cigarettes.
They have a vending machine.
Next to it is a cannabis light vending machine.
You know.
You go to.
You walk down the street.
And every third block has a cannabis store.
And this is all low THC.
Below .6%.
But it creates.
A normality of the cannabis plant.
And culture that can't really be done with THC at this point in time.
But it allows.
How do you.
Unless you have.
Unless you're rolling around with an orange photonics light lab.
Fucking suitcase.
Digital checker.
How are you checking this?
How are these cops checking it?
It's all ganja.
It's all cannabis.
It's all the same.
So where's the fire?
Who's got the fire?
Somebody's got the fire over there in the little town.
Yeah man.
They're driving themselves indoors right now.
Because of the traditional look of cookies.
Burner.
These style of ganja.
You know we see these highly dense little nugglets.
That are absolutely packed with crystals.
And shiny and sparkly.
And blah blah blah.
And don't get me wrong.
I think there's a lot of great fire out there.
That looks like it's going to be a fire.
I don't know if there's a lot of great fire out there.
That looks like this.
But it's pushing them indoors.
Because they want that influence.
They want that similar product.
But it's not great.
They have the best fucking terroir in the world.
Like in some of these places.
They have the best wine.
The best grapes.
The best olives.
They really know what they're doing.
When it comes to these agricultural goods.
And production.
Whether it's hemp.
In a smokable hemp form.
Or it's cannabis.
I have my beautiful smokable THC flower.
Whatever it is.
It grows in great soil.
In great climate.
With great sun.
And they have all of those things.
In this space.
So it's like why the fuck.
Thank you.
Blame cookies.
Blame this.
Exactly the challenge.
They're pushing themselves indoors.
Doing mixed lighting.
Using plastic.
Wasting.
Breeding is coming forward.
We got to hang out with Michele.
His name is Michele.
I can never pronounce his last name.
He's been on my show before.
The cannabis for breakfast.
He is a breeder from northern Italy.
That does specifically CBD breeding.
He does a lot of breeding.
Allegedly he might do some other things.
We're not going to talk about those publicly.
There are a lot more legal out here.
He has worked very hard to produce some very high quality CBD lines.
They have a bunch of the minor cannabinoids.
In higher volume.
THCB.
THCG.
CBG.
THCV.
What's the other one?
Not CBN.
CBC.
CBN.
CBC.
CBG.
CBC or something like that.
A bunch of the minor cannabinoids.
But also bring them into a great quality smokable flower.
That's dense and looks good.
Can be grown outdoors.
In the climate that's out here.
It's consistent with individual flavor profiles and lines.
Like you grab the pack.
Great.
Smells like great.
You grab a pack of peach.
Smells like peach.
He's been working himself.
He would be doing it regardless.
He would be absolutely doing this.
Whether the sun rose or shine.
Each day.
Whether he was allowed to legally or not.
He would be doing this.
That is what matters to him.
That's part of his heart.
We got to meet people doing these things.
It's been interesting.
And very fun.
To say the least.
These people are just so passionate.
Come to my farm.
Hang out.
Come stay with me.
I got friends already coming out to stay.
It will happen.
I'm serious.
When I said I'm going to move to Italy.
I was serious about that.
Here I am.
When I say come to my farm and stay with me.
I'm serious about that.
Come to my farm.
There's a bed for you to stay in.
When I say I'm coming.
I'm serious about that.
We're going to swing by.
Definitely one of these days.
Definitely.
You guys cool we changed the subject to Spanibus.
I want to learn more about that.
Unfortunately there's not as many big events in America anymore.
One of the bigger ones was the one I saw Marco at last year.
Other than those.
A few of those.
More on the east coast.
That stuff is dying down.
Have you noticed the same thing in Spanibus?
Is that still popping?
It's a lot easier for everybody to travel.
I got the opportunity.
Some of the people I have the opportunity to share space with.
In Vancouver and in BC.
Some other larger brands.
They travel around the world.
They go to these things.
I happened to get to see them.
I'm not sure if they're in the US.
I'm not sure.
I'm not sure.
I'm not sure.
I happened to get to run into Remo and chat with him.
He's been a sponsor for that.
For Spanibus every single year.
This is apparently the single biggest year they've ever experienced.
It was so big.
They have to reevaluate what venue they're going to be at next year.
It was fucking dangerous.
There were 25,000 people at this event at one time.
It was wall to wall.
You couldn't walk through it.
It was so busy.
We actually had a lot of people.
We had a lot of people.
We had a lot of people.
We actually left before that exact point.
When it was that busy.
I was there to meet and talk to breeders.
People that were really passionate about the plant.
And interview them.
There wasn't a point for me to be fighting with the crowds.
To check out the new hotness.
We are future cannabis project.
Dagadot garden has some of the coolest hottest things on the market.
And is helping us support the coolest breeders in the space.
We got to see James Lau.
Some amazing human beings.
All of them have stuff on our site.
Not our site.
Peter's site.
Dagadot garden.
Which is bad ass.
It's awesome.
We went there to try to talk to some people.
Do some research.
And do some research.
And we were able to get some of the best people.
And we were able to get some of the best people.
We went there to try to talk to some people.
And do some interviews.
We got to meet Arjan.
We got to meet a few other people.
One thing I did see.
It was very open.
Very easy to walk around.
Spain is very easy.
It's a similar thing.
You have cannabis shops on every street.
That are open carry.
Cannabis shops.
That are marijuana light.
Or CBD.
And then you have half a block down.
Your cannabis club.
Which is usually you have to know somebody that might already be there.
Green city.
Boom.
Cannabis clubs.
Yeah.
Green city.
This one is in Seville.
Seville.
Got my little number on the back.
And this was in Barcelona.
This was in Barcelona.
This was hard to find right here.
I kept smelling cannabis.
I'm on this search.
They don't really tell you where they're at.
You know what I'm saying?
You just kind of know the general area.
They can't post.
It's pretty secretive.
You can probably talk more about that too.
When you go in.
There are certain things you can't say in Spain.
You can't talk about buying.
You give them money before you even enter the area that has the cannabis.
You kind of put it on your account.
Which is why you get the card.
And then when you go in the back.
You have to say things like.
I'd like to try an eighth of blue dream.
Or whatever they got.
You can't say I want to buy.
You have to say I wonder how that tastes.
You have to do certain things.
And then boom.
They give it to you.
And then you carry on.
But yeah.
Definitely that was my experience there.
That was in 2020 I think.
That was a while ago.
Talk a little bit more on that.
Club action.
Me and Brian are double teaming the screen change.
There you see that one.
Fuck we're so good.
But yeah.
We're so good.
We're too good.
Actually I have a really beautiful story about that.
We found I think the best club in Barcelona.
And let me know.
Because there's a ton of people in the chat that were at Barcelona.
At the club.
At Spanibus that I've seen.
Throw some comments and stuff in there.
I would love to know what your favorite club is.
Drop it in the comments of this video.
Drive that traffic.
Let's bring people to our thing.
And do it afterwards.
Don't do it just in the live chat.
Do it in the comments below.
Because that adds a lot to what we're trying to do here.
Regardless.
Let's jump into it.
Because on the first night.
One thing that I happen to know and be lucky to have.
Is a good relationship with Dragonfly Earth medicine.
Can you grab me a glass of water, babe?
Please.
Thank you.
Sorry I'm dying.
I actually squeezed that orange into a cup.
I'm like hopefully this will help.
But it's too acidic.
And it's made things so much worse.
So I'm having a little bit of trouble talking.
So the first night.
And we.
You know being in Kelowna and BC.
In Canada.
Thank you so much for that.
Sorry.
Thank you, babe.
We are lucky to be very close.
About a seven-hour drive.
There we go.
To seven-hour drive.
Not that one.
Thank you, clout.
I don't have clout.
What is this word you call clout?
There is DM here.
There's a Dragonfly Earth medicine.
Josh and Kelly.
Who are authentic and regenerative as fuck.
And I have had their residence.
I have gone through their packs.
I have tasted their smoke.
And these guys are producing fire every single time.
Fully regenerative in their methodologies.
You know crazy regenerative.
Like oh my god.
I wish I could be that regenerative on this farm one day.
That's what I wish.
I'm trying.
I'm going to work my ass off.
Actually I'm trying to do it without machines.
Apart from a water pump.
I need that.
I'm hand towing.
But anyways.
And I mentioned Josh and Kelly.
I see they are in Barcelona.
There's the organic cup.
Shout out to the organic cup guys.
They invited me over.
They are like hey come on by.
You are from future cannabis product.
Come in and check it out.
We rolled up.
I had been completely like hadn't consumed for about 10,
12 days.
Because we flow out on the second.
Barcelona and cannabis was on the 11th or 12th is when we
arrived.
So between that period of time I consumed absolutely zero
cannabis.
You know we are visiting family.
We are going all over the place.
I had gone from consuming maybe like one,
two grams of really,
really fine hash a day.
Really delicious stuff.
Thank you BC Canada for putting this together.
I'm going to go.
I'm going to go.
Thank you BC Canada for providing great hash.
When we got out I wasn't able to consume.
When we got to Barcelona I'm like DM Pure is going to know
where the fire is at for sure.
They told me to come to this club.
It was where they held the organic cup.
We walk in and it's like your typical club.
You pay to get in exactly.
You get your pass and you put money on it.
They weren't actually making you put money on it ahead of time.
I don't know if we should get into the specifics of that part.
But it was a great club.
I was like I'm going to go.
I'm going to go.
I'm going to go.
I'm going to go.
It was a process that was 100 percent on the legal barriers of
exactly how Barcelona does it.
We roll up,
go up to the second floor.
I got a good nose on myself.
I can smell something good from a mile away no matter how
smokey it is.
We are in the corner.
Finally set up.
There were speeches going on.
This guy like pulls this nug out of his bag.
out of his bag, right?
And fucking, it's like, it's not next to me.
It's like 10, 12 feet away.
And I fucking, what the fuck is that?
You know, what's going on?
What is this?
What is this fire?
Very citrusy, you know, very powerful, very potent.
And I could smell it from a mile away.
And I instantly, like, of course,
you see me just fucking beeline, right?
Like there is no stopping me
when I got to find out who the fuck grows it.
I got to meet the guy that fucking grows it.
And I got to talk to the guy that fucking grows it.
And I got to see what else he's got
because that, if he's growing fire that good,
I can guarantee you he's got other stuff
he's playing with for fucking sure.
So we got to meet Cookie Monster.
And so this guy's like totally French, no English at all.
That's his name, Cookie Monster?
No, this is the guy that, the farmer afterwards
that his code name is Cookie Monster.
Okay.
On Instagram, K-O-O-K-I-E, Monster.
Yeah, Monster Cookies, what?
My wife's in the background eating cookies
while we talk about this.
She's like, cookies.
And yeah, so he's like, this is the farmer.
This French guy couldn't understand a word I'm saying.
He's like, fuck it, I'm just going to get the farmer
because I keep pointing at him.
Get the farmer and put him between me and you.
And this guy's got a pocket full of rosin
that has been entered in all sorts of competitions.
It's been in, it was in Masters of Rosin.
He's winning cups.
He's placing in the high level.
And he's like, I bust out my glass, right?
I got my beautiful, you know, I'm lucky
because I have great community.
I've got like a beautiful little glass rig
with all my setup and everything.
And I've got a whole bunch of different bangers
and all these fun-
Oh, you were ready.
You had glass ready.
Glass was ready and you were ready to rock.
Oh, I brought it with me, brother.
I had like fucking all of it ready to go.
Like I have a gun case over there full of glass.
So I'm like, I got all the cool bangers.
You got all the cool rosin.
Let's stick a moment and share some space, brother.
And he's like, yeah, no problem.
So we got to go through every single one of them.
And I'm like nine days, no cannabis.
I could have gone through them twice.
I could have just kept going, man.
This was the most delicious stuff I've had in a while.
Very, very highly consistent and mature plants
that weren't, you know, there was color
but it wasn't like heavy in the color
where there was a challenge to it
or it wasn't under produced, you know,
like when people take it early
to get that really super white hash,
you could tell that it was right harvested,
right at the perfect point.
And there was some fireman,
all sorts of very unique flavors.
He had six or seven and we got to roll through them all.
And like, it all came from,
that smells really good, show me the farmer.
And so we ended up having a great chat,
running into each other here and there
and going through his fire, which was really, really great.
And super, that same thing, super crazy inviting.
Like, come on, hang out.
Let's like, here's my whole case of hash.
I'm gonna walk away and leave you with like,
$1,500 worth of hash and just help yourself.
It's community, it's trust, right?
It's trust, I didn't take more than my fair share.
I was very modest on my dabbing.
He's like, got more.
I'm like, no, I wanna taste it.
I want it to be done.
Did he tell you about his process at all?
Did he tell you about his process at all?
Like, how was he processing his raw?
Yeah, big, big regenerative pots.
He was growing in 200 gallon pots.
He was growing Humboldt style.
Lot of really big flowers.
Big, huge, tall plants.
Very, very nice stuff.
But I didn't, he actually invited me
to come over to his farm and check it out,
but there just wasn't enough time to get in.
So we're working on a Spanibus trip.
But fortunately, you know,
a lot of these things are self-funded.
Well, they're completely self-funded at this point in time.
So there's not like sponsorship dollars
going towards being able to pay for these things.
So I, of course, you know,
we're planning our next trip to Spanibus,
and we're gonna be making sure
that we have three days ahead of time
for me and my wife to be able to go
and check out these coffee shops and these farmers,
not coffee shops, but these clubs and farmers
that we didn't get the opportunity to this time
and make a nice list of them to go visit them.
But that was a fantastic club.
One of the other clubs we went to was Wizards.
I got a couple of good club stories.
So we went to Wizards, got in pretty quick.
It was all right.
The hash was pretty good.
We got some rosin, but they had this Cali dry sift,
which was just like a high quality sift.
You know, like it wasn't anything special.
It was some of their higher quality products.
And then a friend of mine that's Italian
came from a club as well and brought some,
he's like, I got the nicest hash that they had at the club
because I knew you just got back.
That's the first time you go in,
I'm like, you make sure you get me the best stuff.
I'll pay for it.
I don't, if it's 50 bucks a gram,
if it's a hundred bucks a gram,
I'll just give me the good stuff for when I arrive.
And he did, he got me the best stuff he could.
It was 27 bucks a gram.
It was just phenomenal.
It was actually some of the best hash I had
on the entire trip.
And it was a very traditional bubble hash
that was not run through a rosin press at all.
It was full melt and hit like really, really nice.
Beautiful flavor.
I wanna pick your brain right there.
So was not run through a rosin press was full melt.
You know, I'm working through my hash game.
Break that down a little bit more for folks.
Well, I mean, like you could put it through,
you could put it through.
They were just going straight sifted,
tricone heads and then dabbing.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, I mean, it was, they sifted it
and they cured it and they finished it,
but they didn't take it the step further in the rosin.
They actually did separately and made a batch
that they submitted to masters of rosin actually.
But what I got was before that process had been performed
and it was phenomenal.
I mean, it was probably like,
I find when you take hash,
like this bubble hash or these hash products
and you rosin them, you press them in
through that last step
and you get rid of all the waxy components,
all of these components that are left behind.
I think you lose something sometimes
and some flavor components can't be kept around
after the hash rosin process.
So I thought it was quite brilliant.
That being said, I had a lot of other fantastic hash
and fantastically good stuff,
but yeah, I think it was really, really a nice product.
Does that give you a little bit more clarity?
Yeah, yeah.
And so now I'm seeing, okay, yeah,
from between pressed flour to,
like you said, taking it all the way,
pressing it out where you're losing the wax.
You know what I mean?
I think there's somewhere in the middle,
like you said, that's a sweet spot, I think.
It's not all about getting all the way pressed out
to 25 micron, right?
I'm experimenting with different kind of techniques
and trying to figure it out myself.
Yeah, and every strain is different.
Every plant's different.
I've had plants that don't need to be hash
and produce some amazing quality rosins.
Just straight up flour.
I've put stuff in and given it to Bubble Man
and major producers in Canada
and they've been like, this is very, very nice.
This is really quite tasty and delicious.
Usually you need to make sure
to have a really good high turf profile
so that you get that gooey, sticky stuff and it's not dry.
But yeah, I think there's something to that.
And it's a preference thing.
It's a preference thing and it's a plant thing.
Some plants need that extra step
before it's gonna be really, really, really good.
Some plants don't.
And I really, I don't know what causes that or why that is,
but it's good.
Yeah.
Yeah, and then so we got to go to Masters of Rosin.
So we were assigned access to Masters of Rosin
because we're Future Cannabis Project.
We give a heads up, like we message cannabis.
We message Barcelona and Spandavis.
So thank you Spandavis, by the way, for your free tickets.
I appreciate it.
Masters of Rosin gave us access
because we're Future Cannabis Project.
Like we're staying with you guys.
I mean, if you called, give a heads up.
They're gonna give you seats in that place.
But we roll up to,
and this was actually my worst club experience,
but it was actually apparently
in the very best club in town.
Now we got to roll up to Masters of Rosin,
which was, you know, like it was held at HQ Club.
Yeah, HQ Club in Barcelona.
And very kind of high end, very nice club.
Very, very, very, very nice.
As I've seen pictures and post shows,
I haven't actually gone in.
We roll up and so I get to the front gate
and I'm like, I'm on the list.
I gave you guys lots of heads up.
I've even messaged you guys as a reminder.
Hey, I'm in Barcelona.
I'm gonna be by next couple of days with cameras
and to come shoot and chill.
So like, you know, I'm heads up.
And they're like, oh yeah, sure.
It's all great.
We're ready to go and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
You get there and they can't find the fucking list, right?
They can't find their eight lists that they have creating
and it's taking an unglorious amount of time
to be able to sort through it.
And at the same time, while we're trying to sort through
this, I guess Stravinsky, the guy behind Gelato is there
and waiting to get in and didn't bring his ID
so they wouldn't let him in the club.
So they're raising a huge fuss
because they're actually sponsors of the whole event.
And we're like, what do you mean the sponsors
of the whole event?
This is fucking Stravinsky and blah, blah, blah.
The guy Gelato and blah, blah, blah.
And like, cool.
Listen, like this is not my vibe.
These guys are way-
Did they get in?
They left their ID?
Well, they were fighting.
They were, they got in.
Like I know they got in, but I was just like,
not my vibe, not my energy.
I'm waiting too long to get this.
I really just wanted to do a loop,
maybe say hi to a couple of people,
buy some good hash and get the fuck out.
So I'm like, you know what?
I'm not gonna bother.
Thanks guys.
I'll have a good day.
I'm out and left.
So I didn't actually get to see that club,
but I was, you know, that's why.
I'm a little bit of a weirdo that way.
If things aren't quite the right vibe on the way in,
I'm probably gonna turn around to get the fuck out
because I like being in a little farm
in the middle of fucking nowhere with my family
over being in a giant city full of people with egos.
I'm like that too.
Like, don't give me a reason.
Yeah. Give me a little reason.
I'm out.
Peace.
Let me get back into my fucking little hole
in the middle of nowhere in my cave.
I just wanna hang with my family
and be with the people that I love and share and give.
But yeah, so that was the last club that we went to.
Now for Spanabiss, it was really fun.
I got to walk by and hang out with Jorge for a quick moment.
You know, like I got to hang out
and meet all sorts of people from our chat that, you know,
MK, there's BK Pro Audio.
And I see him in the chat here and there.
And I see him on my Instagram here and there.
If you're there, you're in this chat,
raise your hand and put a little hand sign up or something
so that I know that you're there
because I got some pepper seeds
that we're gonna be putting down next little bit.
I'd love to know more about them
and have a chat with them about it.
But they're like, here, can you give,
like, here's a pack of seeds for you.
And here's a little pack of pepper seeds
to bring all the way to Peter
when we come out to California, hopefully.
I'm like, yeah, fuck it.
For sure. I got them.
I got them in a little pack ready to go
next time I have to do a shift or whatever happens to be
and to bring them out with them.
But it was, it's like,
it was a really cool experience
to be walking around that space and people go,
hey, it's London.
How's it going, brother?
And like, come hang out and smoke something with me.
And because I told people that at the time,
even on this show, I was like,
if you see me fucking come over, say hi, give me a hug.
Right? Just let me know you're there.
And just cause I will stop
and I will guarantee take a moment
and I will share what I have with you.
And we will have, and we'll share space for a moment.
And I got to, there was quite a few people
that took the moment out
and few of them are in this chat right now that did.
And it was awesome.
It was absolutely amazing to meet these human beings.
And every one of them is just as fantastic
as every human being that we actually get on the show,
to be honest, which is kind of cool.
Like our community isn't just a little bit awesome
and amazing and inviting.
They're completely awesome and amazing and inviting.
And it makes it really cool.
That vibe followed you on over there, man.
That's what's up.
I was going to ask you, so when you were at Spanibus,
I saw some of your interviews,
I believe it was Humboldt Seeds was one of them that I saw.
Yeah. But what was the vibe like?
So when you're in there, obviously, can you smoke in there
or did you have to kind of go outside and find a corner?
What was that like?
No one's going to stop you from doing nothing.
It got real smoky and real hot.
So there isn't really as much of that worry that I saw.
But yeah, I guess maybe probably at certain points,
like maybe in the morning or during the business events
that were going on close to it,
you might've had run into those challenges,
but it was pretty much open smoke everywhere.
There were people that are like, I'm going to go outside
and smoke outside because it was way nicer to smoke outside.
It was different.
Each space was a little bit different.
Arjan was like, we had to be opportunistic.
We saw him signing posters.
So I'm like, hey, you got a minute?
And he's like, no problem.
I'm going to let you have an interview.
And I really wanted to crack into him.
I wanted to know what he thought about farmers
and where he thought the industry was going
and then what he thought could help them.
Because everybody has always got something negative.
I want to know what do you think
would actually help farmers?
So you can go back and check out the interview,
but it's interesting.
So we got a moment to get in to his space
that was exclusively cordon off and have a chat
and do the quick interview and get the fuck out.
It was, hey, are you ready to interview me?
Your camera's on, go and interview.
And then he's like, all right, thanks.
Turns around and leaves.
You know, like it was very, not very friendly,
a little bit cold, but you know, he's a high volume guy.
They have a lot of people roll through
over that next little bit.
And maybe not be super personable and fun.
I try and make it fun.
Nat was fucking brilliant.
Like instantly warm energy,
extremely inviting from Humble to Seed organization.
Very, very nice human being.
Yeah, he gave you an invite out to the farm and everything.
I saw that, I was like, man, that was chill.
Fucking dude, amazing.
Like seeing, he said the whole thing
for our community of producers.
Like, you guys want to come by and shoot
and visit the farm, come on by, shoot, visit the farm, man.
It's great.
And he was super friendly.
When I walked up, we were talking about
how it was a local community member
that was pushed into jail and needed to be bailed out
and how he and the community came around
to support this guy and get him out of jail
and support him through his challenges
and get him a bunch of money
without any intent of having it back or tell, really.
It just happened, Stan was talking about it
at this point in time,
but it wasn't really something that they were doing
for notoriety or retaking or that.
There was a member of their community
that needed fucking help and they helped him.
And that was it.
Man, I'll be honest.
I've never heard anybody say that Arjan is nice.
And they usually kind of tease about that.
He's like, my name is Arjan.
I am the king of cannabis, blah, blah, blah.
It was Franco, I think, that people really loved, man.
And I think that that was the gentleman.
I think he was the one that the community
actually rocked with.
Because he was, I don't know him or anything personally
or anything, but it seemed like the community
felt like Franco had more of a genuine heart about it
where Arjan did not.
Yeah, I mean, Franco was the guy that really led
the fundraising missions for the outside areas.
He had a huge cultural influence here in Italy
as well being Italian.
He was kind of the guy, Arjan was the money
and Franco was the vision.
He kind of big Willie.
We call that big, we call the big Willie.
I'm big Willie, you know what I mean?
I'm the little one, you know what I mean?
I'm out.
I guess that is what it is.
So there's a lot of people get egos,
but damn, you gotta figure a lot of people probably
are all, they probably love that man.
You know what I mean?
He probably gets like an overwhelming amount
of people that come at him.
And then he probably kind of treats everybody the same,
you know what I mean?
Which is kind of borderline.
He wasn't rude by any means, but it was business as usual.
Yeah, you know what I mean?
Like rolling on.
That's why I liked that.
Had your shit together, have your questions ready,
camera on, let's do this.
Fuck yeah.
Yeah, it's cool that he gave you his time
in the first place.
Just what it's telling you.
Like, I don't think he's, you know,
he's not like some of the other breeders.
And the more that you interview him, you'll see.
Like we've always joked that they kind of are like chefs.
Like some chefs are, wanna talk about their food
and then the other ones don't want you to know what goes on
and they kind of brush you off that way.
And if that's their prerogative, man, you know,
I can't fault somebody for not wanting to share things
if that's not their outlook on life
or their outlook on business.
Cause some people see that as, you know,
shooting yourself in the foot
and sometimes rightfully so.
Like that's their work, you know,
like they're giving you, they're doing work for you.
It's kind of how some people look at it, definitely.
There's two ways to look at it, man.
That new chat GPT shit, that shit is crazy.
If you were in school or doing any kind of reports
or anything, man, that stuff is nuts how that is right now.
And that dude put that out free.
You know, he's already independently wealthy.
Like he's not even monetizing it.
So like some people just genuinely put,
do things for the right reasons.
You know what I mean?
And, you know, some people just have to monetize
every little thing, but it's kind of like you said, man,
it's your prerogative, you know, how you live your life.
You know, things you put out.
He gave space to some awesome breeders too.
Sorry to cut you.
I didn't mean to cut you off there.
He had Loud and Mosca.
He gave them just a free space to set up
and sell their seeds.
So I think that was pretty cool.
I've always liked James Loud.
I was watching his early stuff with Peter
behind the scenes when I was thinking
about doing this kind of stuff.
And I think he's put money into like a studio
and all this from what I understand.
So I would imagine that he's gonna have a lot of
insightful interviews.
It seemed like he was able to ask
higher intellectual questions on breeding
than somebody that's not at that level for breeding.
And that's what I liked about his podcast.
Then it seems like he,
I guess he wanted to do his own thing,
but if you guys haven't checked out James Loud's podcast
from, what was that, like three years ago now,
his stuff is a fantastic listen to.
And I would imagine when he comes out
with his other stuff, it's gonna be worth listening to.
Investing in himself, you know, that's what's up, man.
Love it.
That's what London did.
That's what we all should be doing.
You know what I mean?
Invest in, pay yourself first.
We always say it.
You know what I mean?
So what do you got upcoming, London?
Sorry, Brian.
What do you got coming up, you know, upcoming?
Like what's like in the near future?
Any events or kind of, you know,
420 is right around the corner.
Where are you gonna be?
Chad, I see you in the chat.
And I want you to come for a visit
after you go to Amsterdam.
I was trying to bug him.
I was trying to bug him yesterday.
And just while he's here,
shoot me a message in like,
you got a spot to stay and do it, brother,
because it's fun.
But that was kind of the plan.
You know, right now we're looking at,
all of this is more or less self-funded.
So, you know, we have to make decisions
on what events we're gonna be at over the next little while
and what we can afford,
as well as setting up our new home
and setting up those things.
So are we gonna be able to make it up to Amsterdam?
I'd like to.
We got about 20 days left or 30 days left.
I think we can pull this off.
Is that, you know, the first thing I'm gonna go to?
I don't know.
You know, I might take the opportunity
to take two months right now to chill.
You know, maybe have Chad come visit,
cook him some good food, some really good food.
And other than that, kind of just focus on the farm
and take it maybe, you know,
focus on the business as well
and making sure that we're well fed,
that we're well taken care of and stuff like that.
But getting outside and just working the farm,
just spending some time in the soil
and going to have fun and play.
Like the last time I played, man,
it has been a long time, but I get to go play.
And so I think I might just spend some time doing that
for the next little bit.
That sounds like good fun, man.
I like my toys too.
I like playing.
I just, the way you broke it down, that's all it is.
I'm going to my land, I'm playing with my rabbits,
I'm planting the soil,
I'm, you know, starting up a tractor sometime.
And that shit is what just kind of unwinds you.
It just takes you kind of,
it just gives you time to just relax,
think things through and slow things down.
You know what I mean?
I know you had a hectic last couple of months,
so you should take that time, man.
I don't blame you for that.
And we hadn't gotten more than a day away from our kids
for the last five years, man.
And my parents took, when we got to Florence,
they're like, okay, you go to Barcelona,
these are my children for the next five days.
And we got away from our kids for five days.
So you might have another one on the way.
No, I'm just kidding.
No, I don't have a baby.
My wife wants more.
I don't know if I have the energy.
She heard you.
Sorry about that.
Fucking in the other room, she's like,
well, I want one more kid.
She's over there like, I like him.
Who, which one is that?
That's Marco.
Your wife wants a boy?
Nice.
It always feels like you want whatever you don't have.
Of course you do.
Boys are good labor, man.
You know, so why not?
Yeah, they were talking about that like back in the day.
That's why families would have so many kids.
And then once everybody got into the city,
it was like, oh, these things are expensive.
Let's just have one or two.
Kind of changed your outlook.
Yeah, the whole government in China
was telling people to have one.
It was illegal.
You know, it's just crazy.
Now they're suffering for population.
Now they have an elderly population.
So they're the first.
From what I understand, they're the first population
that their pyramid is like reversed.
So they have more people in their 60s
than they do in their 50s, than they do in their 40s,
than they do in their 30s, like that.
Or it should be obviously reversed.
And so China is going to eventually,
there's not gonna be enough of them
to sustain that kind of stuff.
So there's a whole think tank.
There's a guy named Peter Zion,
if you've never listened to somebody
that I feel like can break that shit down
for people like myself.
But if you wanna learn more,
that it seems to me of what is like the good things
that come out of sometimes this kind of stuff for America.
Because we do have, he jokes about millennials.
And millennials are the ones
that actually are consuming right now.
So the reason why America actually is a little better off
than other countries is because we have kept up
with our reproduction rates.
And immigration is another level to that as well.
And when you're talking about keeping the societies up,
America is a place where people want to go,
where China is not, Russia is not.
So there's a whole think tank
on what could potentially happen in like 10, 20 years
because of all this, Russia's war and all that.
And I think it's a, what I like about it
is it seems more bright eyed bushy tail
than doom and gloom when you listen to some of that stuff.
And I think that more people should listen
to the other side of things
that could potentially happen in the world.
So I just wanna put that out there, man.
There's good vibes also.
That shit, if you watch the news right now,
it's just so negative vibes.
But the think tanks are saying other things
that I think more people should maybe listen to.
America's pretty safe from certain things
because we got, in a weird way, we're almost an island.
And we're also protected from the North and the South
by people that wanna protect us.
So this is a unique opportunity
for people that are thinking long-term
in business and all that.
Oh yeah, a lot of new customers
sneaking across the border every day.
Yeah, there's something too
when people wanna come to your country though.
Like when you're saying China,
nobody's really sneaking in,
no one's sneaking into North Korea, right?
Mm-mm, no one's sneaking nowhere over there.
That motherfucker's got you on lock anyway.
Facial recognition, it's just,
you got a societal passport
with your kind of how you act as part of it.
Fuck that.
It's like a social score system.
Have you seen any of that?
Is there any European countries
that are following that kind of method?
Isn't that going down a little bit?
Europe ain't going for that.
No protest, fucking motherfucker.
Yeah, they're fighting, motherfuckers.
Like it was tough to get back from Barcelona
because the French demanded
that the entire country fucking decide
to have a strike at the same time.
I'm in fucking Barcelona in Spain
and flying to fucking Italy.
What the fuck do the French have to do with it?
They're striking so hard.
So there's some weird shit.
There's some weird shit.
Every space, every community, everybody has problems.
We look at fucking Instagram
and we see people all day long
fucking having the best time of their fucking life
showing and highlighting their positives.
Only their positives.
Nobody fucking shares their negative, their challenges.
And those that do share those things,
share them as positives.
They spin them.
It's like, this is what I learned today
and this is what we're moving forward with.
So it's always, always a positive.
You never just see somebody just get fucked up.
You know, there's some funny stuff out there,
don't get me wrong.
But that's not what we look at in these public spaces.
And when we look at other countries and other spaces,
we either see, depending on your mindset,
you'll focus on what's positive out there,
what's negative at home or the other way around.
And it's not fucking easy.
Nothing's fucking easy.
Every fucking day is hard.
It's just, are you gonna get up and you're gonna go,
is today the day that's gonna defeat me?
Or is today the day that I'm gonna turn that negative
into a positive?
Is today the day that I'm gonna work forward
and get it done?
Is today, you just gotta do that every single morning.
And you know, find your routines
and get into the habits of being positive.
We used to do this thing in the kitchen
because there's always like certain jobs people hate,
right?
Like I'm sure everybody in this room
has either worked in a job or done something
that had some component that was really,
really, truly disliked, truly hated.
You know, we used to have this thing
at Joey's called the Baja tacos.
They're like these fish tacos.
You'd like fucking put them on a little flat top
and you make these tortillas.
And it was just like, it was a hassle to put together
and a pain in the butt.
And everybody always hated doing it.
And I'm like, why do people hate it?
It's fucking food.
It's all food.
Like there's really, I mean,
it's got one more step than anything else,
but like, what's the reason?
Well, one guy, every time he fucking gets a Baja taco
and goes, ah, and then the other guy does it.
And then this habit becomes created.
You know, people train each other into doing these things.
All of a sudden the Baja tacos,
that one thing everybody fucking hates.
So I'm like, you know what?
I'm tired of that.
I said, fucking every time,
I mean, I was a chef and I had a young staff
that would listen to me and loved following me along.
I was the type of guy that liked to run through the fire
first, show that it's okay.
And then hopefully people came along
and jumped in for the ride.
And I was like, fuck it, let's make it so it's a positive.
Let's turn it around and say, hey, woohoo.
I got a fucking Baja taco every single time.
And slowly over time, I watched this mentality change.
You know, all of a sudden the Baja tacos,
the best fucking taco coming out of that restaurant.
I mean, I'm sorry to use this giant metaphor for tacos
as a life thing, but all of a sudden that Baja taco
was the best thing that's coming out of that restaurant
because it was looked at differently.
And it wasn't even like the staff was different.
The team was different.
There was different training involved.
All we did was change the mental cue,
what was being said.
And we started with making it a verbalized positive cue.
And that allowed people to start thinking
and getting rid of that negative point in their mind.
And I think it really helped.
And I think it kind of helped move things forward.
Yeah, man.
That's, you know, and that's crazy how that happens.
Like, I'm like that too.
I'm like, well, if everybody hates that,
well, I wonder why, let me try it.
You know what I mean?
And a lot of things are like that.
It's just habitual.
Like the next guy that taught you told you that it sucked.
So when you made it, it sucked, you know?
So I feel like, you know, that's like when we talk
about natural farming, having that open mind, you know?
That's why when you get into it, anything,
have that open mind.
So you're not like, you're not blocked, you know?
Your thoughts are not blocked and you're, you know,
and you can kind of figure your way through,
you know, tough situation.
But yeah, man, we've all had those kinds of jobs.
I remember the worst thing I've had, you know, job,
you know what I mean?
I don't even like that.
For me, a job is something like very temporary.
I prefer like income, but job was working
in like a warehouse, man.
Like with boxes and like, if you ever worked in a warehouse,
there's nothing more important than those boxes.
You know what I mean?
That job, that really sucked.
But sucky jobs kind of motivate you too, you know,
that motivated me to my next step.
And then you say, hold on, what are you doing here?
You know, get moving.
You know what I mean?
So take that all, that's called taking up,
making it a positive.
You know, another thing I did was, you know,
so should I get the workout and get paid?
You know what I mean?
It was heavy, hard lifting work,
taking that positive while I'm there.
And you know, if you do that, it makes your time go faster.
It makes things go better.
And then you can set you up for the next move
that you're going to make after that.
It sets you up in life, man.
It sets you up for positivity all around.
And all of a sudden you start looking at things as,
like I enjoy the next challenge in my life.
I think that's kind of an advantage
that I've been able to look at is, is that is me.
Like I fucking love the challenges.
Let me and my wife, you know, we combat,
not viciously or aggressively or rudely or anything.
We fight and argue.
And I think it's great.
I think that we talk through everything.
And we get through every last point
whenever it is challenged, you know, and it's fun.
And the key to that London with your spouse
is that at the end that y'all are both
just wanting what's right.
And if that's the case, then you can end it
somewhat could have been an argument
turns to a kind of vibrant discussion
now turns to reasoning back and forth.
And then you kind of say, hmm, well, you're right, baby.
Your way is a little better on that.
You know, and if both parties are open to that,
that's kind of the key for relationships.
And when you travel, it's a big test on your relationship.
You're gonna, it seems like you're always gonna argue
when you travel a little bit and just part of it, man.
Anxiety will bring out, you know,
this is couple really love each other,
you know, kind of thing.
And you're first getting into those kinds of things.
Hey, so moving forward,
I know you've been bringing out some interviews.
We talked about a couple of the people that you interviewed.
You know, Marco and I obviously doing this,
we've learned a lot of things.
I was wondering if you had any gold bars
from your interviews that you felt like,
it doesn't necessarily have to be just farming.
I think some of the people that you've interviewed
like Humboldt Seeds,
they obviously understand marketing and branding.
They have one of the most, to me,
one of the more beautiful setups with the wood.
And that can't be cheap to ship that shit
all over the country.
So I-
Oh dude, it's not cheap to ship over the country,
but those fucking guys made it all by hand.
Sorry, I got excited and cut you off there.
You were in the middle of a great thought.
No, no, well, yeah, let's talk about that brand.
Cause I mean, there's a lot of good brands out there,
but it seems like, you know, behind the scenes,
a lot of individuals have always kind of started out
with their genetics or, you know,
individuals like them that have been doing it
for a long time.
Yeah, sorry, I can't just freaked out.
Like they keep seeing cats run by.
There's like a dozen of these fucking things
playing outside, it's driving me nuts.
But the branding for Humboldt Seed was awesome.
Like those guys really fucking, really held together.
Like they shipped that entire setup
that they built in Humboldt, you know,
to their event, to their place, to their booth in Spanavis.
And they move it to every venue
and every space that they do it.
But they built it.
You know, it can't be cheap to ship it,
but they fucking built it.
You know, like that's fucking epic, man.
Like how many people, how many companies, you know,
built their, built by hand the table or booth
that they fucking set up on?
No one.
That tells you the quality from the bottom up.
That's quality that they're building their own shit
for the quality,
because they couldn't buy what they wanted.
So you built it.
And then, so that just tells you
the type of people they are, man.
And that's why they've been in the game so long, right?
No, yeah, that may be,
I'm not gonna build the table.
You know, maybe in five years, hold on.
I'm regeneratively farming now.
I might end up building a table.
You'll build the table one day.
Were they selling like the blueberry muffin
and some of the stuff out there
that kind of made them famous more here in America?
Yeah, and that stuff's hot right now out here.
Big, big, everybody wants what's going on in California.
Everybody wants what's coming out of the US right now.
And a lot of it works great in the farms
and people love the stuff that I've been seeing.
You know, I'm trying to think of what really popped out
as flavor profile was,
because like it's such a mix.
You know what was really challenging about Spanibus
is the bullshit that surrounds that stuff.
You know, there's a lot of it.
You know, you roll up to a breeder
or you roll up to a breeder and they, or a breeder.
See, it's suckers.
It's like, oh yeah, we, you get a sales rep
and they're like, oh yeah, we produce every one of these
and have a breeder that produces
every one of these 187 fucking 0.3 strains.
Like, no you don't.
There is no breeder that has 187 fucking strains.
I'm sorry.
Like I know, I've met the breeders
that are putting in work that's consistent,
that's spread out the time.
And they don't even think that they're gonna have,
they're gonna have completed line projects
by the time they die.
These guys have 21 to 30 to 40 to 50 plants, but never.
Like fucking serious seeds is a great example
of someone who is, and the house is a great,
and the gardener is another one
that's a great example of this,
is these guys created a consistent, great product.
You know, like serious seeds has 16 total cultivars.
I think they're at 18 maybe max.
And he built all of them out and works on them
and builds them on his line.
Then you go, did he go in?
Like I don't even have a problem with people going like,
hey, you know, like no, we don't do the breeding.
We just buy packs of seeds or get white labeling, you know?
And we, but we make sure to find really great breeders
and really great producers and really great products.
We don't, we can't do 187 strains.
That's not possible.
But no, they're fucking telling their sales staff
to say that we produce all of them
from scratch ourselves and breed.
That's fucking wrong.
You know, that is so inauthentic.
That is such bullshit.
That is fucking wrong, wrong, wrong.
You know, there's nothing wrong
with being a great branding person
and producing a product that comes out of it.
You know, it's like, it's like we see in Canada
and this drives me fucking up the wall
is brands that completely present themselves as farmers,
create social media engagement pieces,
create these long winded performance pieces on YouTube
that display how they have this farm
that they produce their ganja on
and that they're like these hands in the dirt,
authentic people that are really truly passionate
about the plant and really fucking care about advocacy
and all this shit.
And they don't even fucking own a farm.
They're fucking, these guys fucking take weed
that a truly amazing farmer produced
and slapped a fucking label on it and resold it.
And we're talking about gold bars.
We got one from last night
and this is kind of spilling into this
is we had Ross Rappliati on
and those that don't know who this guy is
and we have a lot of American audience.
I'm going to give you a whole lot of Canadian
here all at once.
Ross Rappliati was the first gold medal winner
of the downhill speed snowboarding competition
in the world.
The first time in the Nagano Olympics
that they ever had snowboarding
as a competition for downhill, he competed.
And after winning that gold medal,
he tested for 17.5 nanograms of THC in his urine
after that he peed into the cup afterwards
and they pulled his medal from him.
Fortunately for him,
they didn't have THC listed as a drug.
That was a performance enhancing drug
and thus they had to return his medal.
Again, something that's never happened before.
But he had to, but because of it,
he got stripped of all of those major things
and all of these other problems.
He went from being the world's best snowboarder,
like gold medal winning snowboarder
to walking onto construction sites
with his own tools asking for work.
I mean, like in a couple of years,
like in a year period, like crazy fast.
Because of the fact that he got dinged for cannabis
because all of his contracts said
they wouldn't follow through with his contracts
if he got caught for cannabis.
No, it's fucked, it's wrong.
And it's just not great.
But so what came out of that is Ross decided,
I love cannabis, I do love cannabis.
I'm gonna keep going on this.
I'm gonna keep working on this.
And three months ago, he released onto the Canadian market
Ross's Gold, which is his pre-roll.
And he's straight up, I don't fucking farm this stuff.
I'm not the farmer, I know how to farm.
I've done that, I've run dispensaries.
We've done all these things.
But I found a great farmer
that produces truly special product
that needed to get it to market
and needed to put money in their pocket.
And I have a brand that happens to be well known
and perfectly situated in Canada
to be able to distribute their product,
to be able to sell it
so that they have it somewhere to go.
And he was straight up honest.
He was like this, I didn't grow it, I didn't roll it.
But tell you what I did do is smoke it every single time
before it was ever served or sold to anybody.
Right, just be straight up.
And that's one of the greatest nuggets
that I've seen consistently
throughout every single interview I've ever done.
Anyone, any person that has been truly good,
truly special, truly unique, or truly fucking great,
they're authentic as fuck.
And you can tell it from every core of their being.
And it radiates from them, it's nuts.
Like you step into a space with Mila, like the hash queen,
it's, you know, it's just there, the vibes there,
and they're authentic as fuck,
and that's exactly who they are.
And they're also exactly where they need to be.
I didn't wanna interrupt you.
That was a fantastic little gold bar there.
But when you were saying you might freeze up
and you would have to leave,
you have frozen up, but we can still hear you.
Just so you know.
Oh, and now you're just back.
You just pop back up and now we can see you again.
We spoke and I moved.
Give me a second.
I like what he's saying there.
I think most people that start to interact
with a larger audience in the community
start to realize that there are a lot of people
that copy one's other, a lot of jealousy.
I was joking, a lot of emotional type individuals,
you don't necessarily really see that in the gray market,
the underground market.
I think those people are usually weeded out,
and rightfully so, where this is, you know,
some people thrive on,
like even this guy too, right here in Colorado.
We've talked about it a couple of times,
but you know, when somebody steals your work,
somebody allegedly, when someone allegedly steals your work
and then creates a mega company from it,
and nobody wants to talk about it,
you know, it's hard in cannabis for breeders
to really authenticate stuff and say like, this is mine.
Or, you know, so that's why a lot of the people
that Marco and I've interviewed over the years
are just kind of like, hey, once you buy the seeds,
I don't wanna stress about it.
That's what I almost feel like the theme would be
if we're trying to minimize
what everybody's been saying, Marco,
is they don't wanna stress about having to double check
and get on all these social media,
see who's doing what, who's selling my XYZ cut
for a thousand less than I sell it for.
So they just put it out there that it's like,
all right, this is my work, this is what it's worth to me,
and then see what happens.
And I would imagine that the European market's
kinda gonna go that same way where
there's a lot of bullshit artists for a while
until everybody starts to point and say like,
and they start to see the same individuals
are doing shit to the community.
And then on the same flip side of that,
there's a lot of quality individuals
that are doing right by the community.
And that's part of that.
And I think more of probably what you're learning in Italy,
and hopefully you can kind of spread that word
for the community, is that there are a lot of seed shysters
out there at the beginning of any kind of wave.
They're in the middle of big waves now, man.
Some of these guys are running like,
like I'll fucking bone pick here, man.
I love digging into this because I think it's fucked.
Like Crop King Seeds.
I mean, God knows I spent money there.
Fucking, I bet most people in this chat-
Everybody knows exactly who you're talking about.
Yeah, fuck those guys, man.
Because they're-
What are we talking about?
Half, you know how much that guy-
It's been like a five-
That guy's making half a million dollars a month
in sales selling bullshit.
Half a million dollars a month
that guy fucking sells in bullshit.
Fuck that dude.
So allegedly what happens is it'd be like,
if I took your seeds, Marco, I had your,
I got your logo and I slapped that bitch on there.
And now I'm Marco.
I'm a distribution for this.
Because a lot of people say that they've never fucked
with Crop Seeds, so how in the hell would he,
or I think it's like an entity,
how would they have their genetics?
And people get fooled by that at first
because they have one of the bigger,
like at expos and stuff,
they're one of the bigger companies.
And that's why we've said,
I felt like since day one with this show,
be careful of the ones that look like they're spending
the most money and they have the scantily clad girls
and they're always like the bells and whistles of cannabis.
That means that whatever they're selling you,
they have to hype it up because behind the scenes,
they know it's bullshit.
And that happens with seeds for the average person
more than the community would ever admit to one another.
People get ripped off, they just keep it to themselves.
They keep it going.
But the only reason why a lot of that stuff continues
is because they're able to move from state to state.
And now it seems like from country to country.
Well, you know, I think-
They're taking the same seed.
Just rotating it through.
They're not even breed, they're not even doing any of that.
They just take a bag of seed and they throw-
Labels on them.
They throw this labels on them.
Whatever you want.
You want this one?
I got this shirt.
Let me print it for you.
See what they're on is some shit that's like,
it's somewhat sustainable because they're going like
on that new cannabis guy, that new person into the game.
They're going on the repeat business
of that repeat business.
But like the thing, the cool thing about cannabis is like,
say where you are or Spain or these countries
and these areas and even states as they grow,
you can't fake the funk.
Like you're gonna eventually,
your nose is gonna take you to where the good cannabis is.
Everyone's nose is gonna take them there eventually.
Being that first guy out front with your money out
in front of you walking around,
that's usually the guys getting taken early in that game.
That's why we always say, do your research.
That's why people that we bring on here,
99% of them, straight up, fuck with them.
Buy their shit.
You know what I mean?
You never know.
We give everybody open platform to kind of say their piece,
but for the most part, shows like ours, man,
we're gonna kind of cut through that red bullshit for you
and then kind of point you right to the good guys.
You know what I mean?
That's kind of key, I think.
If you want longevity in the game,
you don't wanna go broke.
And I would say at this level,
there's a lot of companies like Crop King
and other ones like them,
but it's almost at this point,
shame on you in this day and age,
if you are spending money with that,
because you should be able to Google review.
You can Google almost anything and find reviews on stuff.
And I promise you there's Reddits full
of a bunch of seed banks that people feel,
you gotta piss somebody off on an epic level, I think,
or most people, for them to sit down
and write a fucking lengthy review.
But if you'll notice, when it comes to seeds,
people feel that way and they write those lengthy reviews
because they put so much fucking time into this.
And now they're like, man, I want other people to realize
that this is some bullshit.
And now I'm six months into this
and it's like, I fell for these hype seed,
I got ice cream, cookie candies, blah, blah, blah
from all these different breeders.
I grew it out and it's bullshit.
And that's where a lot of that stuff comes from,
where you have to research where your beginning artwork,
that's the way you should look at it, all right?
So who's gonna provide me the canvas so that I can grow?
And a lot of people are selling fake canvases
so that when you start to paint,
that shit is fucked up from the beginning
and then you either feel a certain way about growing,
you're like, fuck that, move on, find a new hobby,
or you have to kind of take it,
realize some of the issues that you've done
and move forward and pay all of those things,
pay the electric, pay all the things that start over.
And most people don't wanna do that.
No, man, and they're just taking advantage of this space too.
There's a lot of people that exactly
the most important part of the market right now
are the people that we're converting.
Are the people that we're converting,
and it sounds stupid business and it kind of pisses me off,
but there's the new people,
there's people that have spent their entire life
negatively thinking about cannabis
and for the first time ever, they're okay with it.
But you know what their kind of exception
to being okay with it, to be really okay with it
is I'm gonna grow it at home myself
because then I'll know what's at least,
at least I'll know what's going into it.
At least I'll know what it is.
And they're selling them this
because they're like,
you know what I really want is Acapulco Gold.
That was what I grew up on.
That's what I really enjoyed.
So it's like, I'm gonna go look up on Acapulco Gold
on da da da, and they're gonna get crap.
They're gonna get nothing.
And there's nothing wrong with white label.
And there was in the chat, where do we buy beans?
Who do I get beans from?
Who are the companies that are killing it?
All of them on DAGA are absolutely killing it.
Atlas, I see Atlas Seed Bank.
I see them doing a ton of very hard, very diligent work.
They're working with breeders
that have spent their entire lives for years
selfing and maintaining and creating high level genetics.
And we see James Loud on our site.
We see Brandon Russ.
We see fucking, there are amazing breeders on DAGA
that are killing it every single day.
And that would be doing it
whether it made them a bunch of money or not.
They just, they do it because they love.
Like that's the thing.
It's like, you meet these people,
they're weirder than chefs.
Breeders are fucking weird.
If you roll up to a company and they're like,
yeah, I'm the breeder, or I'm the guy behind the brand,
and they are fucking weird,
that's probably a good sign that they are full of shit.
And that they're just a real great salesperson
because they're total weirdos.
Like fucking, like have you met,
you guys have met half these guys.
They're weird.
Unique, you got a very, definitely unique personalities
and traits about them.
Cause you gotta have that meticulousness about you.
You know what I mean?
That thing, you know,
that's one thing about the best breeders.
They're very, I don't even know if all of them
might maybe take notes or write things,
but in their mind, at least they know what they're doing.
They start connecting dots
and they do it really kind of naturally.
I feel like when they get good,
just like Geno Malcolm, you know,
like those guys, NERS Genetics,
you know, the ones that you hear about,
you know, those guys,
those couple of other ones that are doing good stuff.
And just to be clear, just cause we're all producers,
we're all on the show, we're all here.
Not one of us fucking makes a penny off of DECA.
Like, let's just be really fucking clear.
Just so everybody knows, if you're asking us,
where's C2Biome, we're telling you about DECA.
We don't make money from that.
So we're just doing it because that's where we are friends
and people that we've found
that produce great quality product.
That's where they're listing their stuff.
That's where Kevin Jodry's putting his stuff up.
That's where these brands are putting their stuff up.
So, you know, like we're not profiting or there's no greed.
There's no nothing from that statement
other than the fact that we know
that our friends are gonna benefit from that
and we get zero out of that.
Yeah, Marco and I've been,
I mean, even before you came on London,
I mean, we've never made a penny from doing this
and we're here each and every week.
And, you know, people feel certain ways.
Like last week when we interviewed an individual
that was a synthetic farmer.
You know, some people feel a certain way about that.
Why give them the platform?
But I don't understand that thinking
because I thought we were all trying to learn
from each other and to say that you can't learn
from an individual just because they grow
a different style from you is honestly silly.
Like where, you know, where's your head at
when you're trying to say that you're trying to be
one of the best or in your spot, you know?
I would think that most people, wherever they're at,
like Marco, you know, myself, like whatever I'm doing,
I wanna try to be the best at.
Did I ever think that I'd be breeding bugs in my basement
and trying to be the best at that
using the cannabis soil building systems?
Hell no, but I'm still rolling with the punches, man,
finding ways to, and that's what I meant
by like the show title today.
I think that individuals that have the ability
to kind of just move on and find ways.
Marco had issues at the, you know, with time for this,
but did he say, hey man, we're not doing the show?
You know, then it was in traffic.
It's like, yo, fuck this, we gotta do it next week.
That's what I love about the man
is that people that are truly hustling,
finding ways to do stuff,
it doesn't matter what the obstacle is,
I'm still gonna get there.
And that's, you know, back to London,
he traveled the world, half around, you know,
halfway around the world to start his dream
and to build that up.
So if you're sitting here watching this stuff,
it's basically April.
So if you haven't started your business on a full,
you know, where's your, sorry,
are you currently like building up your website?
Or are you, you know,
thinking of the blueprint and all that?
This man took his entire family and is taking risks.
For a lot of you individuals that do watch the show,
I know a lot of you guys are single, no family.
You have the world at your, you know,
you could do pretty much anything you want within reason
and start to build things up, put time into this.
And I hope that you guys see that London
is a beacon for that man
when you're doing that with your family.
That's a heavy weight to put on any man with a family.
Yeah, I wanna say one more.
I wanna add back to, yeah, man, we go,
we give, who would we be,
who would I be to be a natural farmer
and not even wanna hear out another fellow grower,
even though they have a different technique?
You know, for me, you know,
the biggest thing is when you hear a lot of people say
they used to grow organic, right?
And then they go to salts now.
They, you know, our guest last week, he said,
man, I was trying, I was going organic
and he was naming out all the different inputs
he was throwing in the soil, the perlite,
the this, the that, and that was the problem.
You know, we start this thing out slow
when we build our soil, you know what I mean?
We're building that microbiology.
We're adding ingredients with intent.
We're building these soils to feed our plants
for long term, you know what I mean?
So if people get discouraged
when it goes quote unquote organics,
it's usually because you just taking a lot of ingredients
and not really having purpose or plan of what you're doing.
We always say this, find a good soil recipe and start there.
You know, build a good soil recipe, go from there.
That's gonna make your organic life way easier.
You know what I mean?
Just for instance, these plants behind over my shoulder,
these are my outdoor plants now.
I got them outdoors early this year, covered up.
Talking to so many people on this show,
all the big dogs say, if you wanna grow monsters,
you wanna grow those big trees, plant direct seeds.
These were all direct planted.
You see there's some other weeds, if you will,
growing up there next to them.
Direct planted, right in the ground.
So now I'm setting them up to have those big roots,
big roots, big fruits, so hopefully things go well.
But man, just getting back to like learning from everybody,
learning a little bit from each person along the way.
Even though our last week's guest grew from salts,
he was still breaking down different things
to look for when he's breeding,
different ways to maximize his yields, things like that.
So no, he did not convert me to salts.
You know what I mean?
We heard what he said, I'm not a salt guy now.
I'm rocking with where we're at.
We've been doing this a long time, we're not going anywhere.
And if anything, that would just reinforce more
for our viewers, like, hey, oh, yeah,
I'm not fucking with salts.
So even though he's salt, you know,
yeah, we're not fucking with that,
because we just, we know why, so.
Yeah, it takes a long time to get to the skill sets
that Maaha Dave has.
Boom.
To think that you can't learn from a guy,
like he's got, in his world, people rock with him, right?
His stuff is, it's beautiful.
I've seen his stuff.
So I personally never smoked it.
I always wanted to be candid with you guys,
but his stuff is, it's well known, right?
So I don't think that not learning from somebody
just because that, it was just silly, man,
some of the comments that I had people reaching out.
I think if somebody's, their artwork,
the stuff that they're creating is being recognized
by third party magazines, regardless of the magazine,
there's something to be learned there if you're new to this.
And I think like what Marco was getting at,
it's probably in a way like shows you the trusting,
the microbial world, trusting mother nature
is gonna be a lot easier as a beginner
than having to learn those skill sets
like you had talked about, setting up grows and all.
That is an art form, and it should be shouted at
from the mountaintops that that way
can be done successfully, absolutely.
But there are very few people
that are able to do it at scale like that
and continuously pump it out.
And that's, I think some of the harder things
for the like average or somewhat skilled salt farmer
is that's why people joke that there's myths,
but individuals that have the skill set,
they are top tier.
It's just then again, your personal flavor,
what matters to you?
Our world, we're more getting into the concentrates.
We love that smell.
I almost think like that's kind of the chef's kiss
is when you crack something open on a concentrate level,
and it still retains that nostalgia and that smell.
Shout out to MI Beneficials
when he gave me the Tangy, the GMO.
I mean, when I crack that shit open, it smells like that.
And that's hard to do when you're new at this.
Hell, that's hard to do at any time.
Yeah, it is.
And you know, just to close that point,
you know, we have, you know, hey, we know organics.
One, because when we started talking about food,
it was like, yeah, but I like more organic food.
If I'm a cook, I'm a cook organic.
So, you know, that's right there.
You know, everybody knows what's better.
And it's just, everybody kind of has their little lane
with cannabis and they got to rock with it
how best it fits them.
And you do too.
You know what I mean?
That's where you're the master of your own garden.
So appreciate y'all to bear with us on that.
And hopefully y'all learn some stuff along the way,
but you know, we'll be kicking, you know,
a little bit more organic farming like we normally do.
You know, it's not like we're going to salts
or we sold out or we were promoting any kind of brands.
We were just promoting a person, showing them some love
and giving them a little bit of platform
to talk about what they got coming up.
So, you know, that's all.
Shout out Mile High Day.
We appreciate you, bro.
Yeah, man.
I mean, that's coming in, like he even said it
to the den of wool or however you say this expression,
but you know, coming where it's not necessarily
the viewpoint that's heard within the community.
And that's what I love about that.
And I think in time,
having all these variety of different interviews,
having London now access to kind of like
the European market, if you will,
I think it's going to open up a lot of stuff
for the platform.
And that's another reason I,
not only do we have you, you know,
behind the scenes with us each every week, London,
but kind of wanted to interview about this
because you have grand plans, not only for your life,
but it seems like for this platform,
you're helping behind the scenes,
Marco and I polish this up a little bit
so that people, you know, just want to rock with this.
And the other part that Marco and I like about it
is having the freedom to just talk about anything,
having it be in an organic, if you will, conversation
is that there are a lot of people
that don't want to come on here
because it is hard to fake the funk
for three hours straight.
And as you are seeing with your own eyes,
the same kind of stuff I felt like we've seen over the years
not every single person is able to do that.
And you're going to start to pick apart that.
And I think you'll see that that's why
a lot of the same names, a lot of the same breeders
are popping up, whether you're living here in America
or you're over there in other countries
is because the work is speaking for itself.
And there's little hype here and there, pockets of stuff,
but a lot of that stuff fizzles out.
So just be weary of when you're spending
hundreds of dollars on something
because we've all been burned
and that aspect needs to stop for the new farmer.
If you want to take risk and you know,
hey, this person's not necessarily the law,
but I have heard that it washes pretty well.
So I have heard that about some breeders
that might not have the best reputation,
but you know that you're gambling
and you know that you got your skill sets dialed in.
So you can assess it for yourself and say,
all right, this is hype
or this is something that I want to rock with.
I want to throw something out
because I agree with you guys, man.
I think one of the most amazing things
and why I love being the background producer
and helping you guys put on this show
is because it's about the people.
It's not necessarily about what they're doing.
That's what we talk about for sure, but it's not.
It's about the people and the people are fantastic.
What I'd like to touch on with the salt thing
and maybe before we go on like a little break
and do the little smoke break thing
is touch on like the salt
and the businesses behind this, okay?
And not even going all the way,
and I'm going to burn,
I'm going to probably burn myself here
and I don't fucking care at this point
because you know what?
These guys don't have any fucking money
to support our community anyways,
and they didn't put any fucking money in
to help us to begin with.
So who fucking cares?
The fact of the matter is,
is that bottled salt nutrients are predatory businesses.
They are creating a system in which a farmer
is a consumer, not a farmer, period.
Right?
That's the fact.
It completely bypasses the systems that we use today.
And not only that, completely, it's so fucked up.
Dude, you can buy your entire,
you could buy five years worth of fucking crop salts
for a small home grow from a bag
at your fucking agricultural store.
Go buy it.
It's the same shit that they're putting
in a fucking bottle of water.
This is what drives me nuts.
And I know there's better mixes and there's better blends
and there's people that do it better or worse
and so on and so forth.
But there is an entire industry built right now
on mixing these components together and they're bombing.
You know why they're bombing is because what happens
when it goes federally legal or you get large state
adoption is for the first little while,
it's all fucking gravy.
Because they get to jump into this industry
and they get to jump forward.
I'm fucking burning some bridges like I hang out
with the remote.
They get to jump forward into these spaces
because the people that were growing were basement growers
and all they ever knew was bottled salts
that they got from their fucking hydroponic shop.
Okay?
They're growing amazing fire and these amazing things
but then they go federally legal.
And all of a sudden they don't have eight square feet.
They got 8,000 square feet.
No, they got 80,000 square feet.
They have huge facilities, right?
And they're fucking, and they've been conned
into buying these bottles and these businesses
that people are putting their entire fucking lives
at stake for are spending money on fucking bottled
water nutrients that are mostly water.
Fucking hire a dude, help your fucking local economy,
hire a dude to mix your fucking salts
that can go to the store, know what the separate
ingredients are and can put them in your salt tank
and put them together.
And I mean, I'm not talking for your home grower.
I actually think some bottle nutrients
and like liquid water based nutrients
for like a home grower at certain points in time.
Like you got a little apartment
and you don't have the opportunity for some of these things
or even you just want to experiment.
You want to do aeroponics to be able to do high measurements
of what nutrient intakes are, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
You want to do all these things.
There are places for these products for sure.
But people are staking their business on it
and it's costing them two to $3 cost per gram.
It's a fucking crop, man.
This is not a crop that should cost
that much money to produce.
It's just not right.
And it's because of a predatory behavior
that was created in an industry
where you're getting $3,000 a pound for your fucking meds.
And that's not what's going to happen
in an industry that moves forward into a space.
You're going to get $3,000 a pound.
Yeah, the best weed in the world
is going to get $3,000 a pound, period.
Not meds, not okay, not very good.
The best weed in the world in the legal space
is going to get $3,000 a pound.
It might get even more.
It might get $3,000 an ounce,
three to $5,000 an ounce.
If it's really, really, really amazing,
you get some really beautiful pack produced
in the nicest area,
and this is the most beautiful, unique cultivar,
sure, I could totally see that price.
But people were built on this industry
where they were able to throw a little bit of money away
and they were sold a bad hand.
And some of them have lost businesses because of it.
And I know some of them, and it's not okay.
I just don't think it's fair.
I think there's products out there
that take advantage of organic systems
and cost the same amount.
Yeah, they're worse because in a way that becomes sinister.
Like you can make FAA,
and you can make that for pennies on a dollar.
You know what I mean?
For some, go to your local fish market,
and you can get some guts and sugar,
fucking make FAA.
That a five gallon bucket of that,
how long would that last an average guy?
You know what I mean?
I do agree with you on like,
I guess the benefit of the larger grows
is they can somewhat keep that organic tag
by mixing their own stuff.
You know what I mean?
You kind of scale-
I'm not saying they're organic.
I'm just saying buy your salts.
Don't use a bottle product.
That's a predatory thing.
Buy the base ingredient.
All right, well then, yeah,
kind of on the same note that I was talking on
was that, yeah, buying your own ingredients would be better.
You know what I mean?
Like, I've had,
I've known companies where they did that.
You know what I mean?
I've worked there, and it's better,
but still, that shit is still a concoction of chemicals
that really is unnecessary.
So instead of doing that,
you can create your own.
You know what I mean?
You know, I know on a larger scale,
people say it can't be done, but it can be done.
You know what I mean?
It really, it boils down to amending
and building your soil.
You know, we need to be focused more on going water only
than focused more on making, you know, inputs going in.
You know what I mean?
Like, you know, that's to me,
that's where I've been learning the most from
is my building my soil properly
and putting that, you know, all that energy into the soil
that the microbes can then break down.
And then I toss in my inputs, you know,
just to feed the microbes.
You know what I mean?
And that's kind of where you're going to get that,
that bang for your buck.
Yeah, but selling water, no, that's fucked up.
I mean, that's just, that's bad.
You know what I mean?
That's why, you know,
you got to make your own stuff, man.
You really do.
Like, if everybody kind of got together
and made their own inputs,
or at least got on the kind of the dom tip
or that regenerative tip,
or you're thinking in the right way,
man, it'd be so much better off, you know,
just I know I'm preaching to the choir.
Well, you guys want to do the break real quick
and then we'll come back.
Cool.
I like that.
Let's do the thing.
It'll do it.
Did you guys run the dedication to Michulam last time?
I don't think we did the break last time.
Oh, cool.
Okay, well, we'll run that.
I got a beautiful little piece
that a friend of mine put together
dedicating Raphael Michulam,
the guy that, you know,
did forward a lot of groundwork for what we do today.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight.
the marijuana light, baby. That
sounds like marketing, doesn't
it? Yeah, it does. We got the
marijuana light. And it's loud
as hell over at London's. I
got the loud, loud stuff. So,
yeah, you can see my cut there
and so that was that was like
done by hand. It took it took a
long time and and and there's a
very kind of yellow stony
texture here. There's a lot of
really stones but it's it's
like clay. It's very clayish.
Um and and and holds great
moisture actually which is
which is incredible but it does
take a little bit to penetrate
it why you need so much I think
life in the soil for it to be
able to go in. This is the
other patch. I'm actually
actually my wife my wife did
this. All by hand with with a
hoe. Um and and it's not a
small feat cuz there is a lot
of big stone. Look at that
sunset. Um and so I I'm gonna
put some some lettuces and
stuff. Maybe something that I
can take the smalls out of
before we leave. Um and and get
to eat those and there's there's
my walk up. Look at that. I
see a couple. You got a couple
of nice piles of vegetation
there. I I'd love to just dig
up under there and see what
y'all's local, you know, soil
life looks like. Yeah. Probably
yeah bro. Buddy dropped it off
last week and out of nowhere
and I don't even like just
threw it in the middle of the
yard. I don't know why but I'll
take it. Oh yeah. Thank you.
Like so these are the
construction materials but we
have a wall barrier here so
like that's that's kinda showing
off that side. Right. Rental car
um and this is this is rocky
outside. Little bit soil got
definitely got some rocks in
there. Drainage well. Oh yeah.
Yeah there's a there's a hard
there's a hard pan underneath
everything so we should have
about 20 to 30 centimeters but
after a while you get down
there's just straight stone and
marble and mountain um which is
interesting and creates a
little bit of challenge. So
this so I wanna back up so this
side is gonna be flowers. My
wife we're gonna do perennial
flowers and and uh you know
plants that are for health and
then on this side we're going
to fill this with um uh this is
my kids play area actually. So
we're gonna turn this whole side
into like a little playground
for them you know and and
however they wanna do it if
they wanna make like a dirt
area that they big up and and
do a little garden sure if
they wanna. So. Yellow? I don't
care. It's all about what they
want for the sides. They get
to they get to pick that. Good
fun right there. Kinda fun.
Yeah and then and that's
Florence and that's it. That's
all that's all my videos. Nice.
Thanks. Yeah. Yeah. Then.
Alright. So right now I can
confirm cherry and figs grapes.
So yeah man this is this is
nice. So what that tells you
is automatically those things
you wanna grow there so you can
grow more than figs propagate
super easy like even easier
than. Yeah. I gotta cut him
back. What do you do to cut
down their base? Cuz I when I
noticed these fig plants it's
like their roots are popping
**** out you know like and one
of them is kind of buried in
a pile of stones so it's like
there's all these trees pointed
out of this giant pile of
stones and like you gotta like
you'd like just pull or you
cut them and kill them or is
this just you wanna get rid
of it? I pull it out. Well I
don't need the extra at the
bottom. I just need the top
right? Yeah. So yeah you can
just kind of cut and pull or
you know pull and cut. Yeah.
Like a thing. Yeah you'll
figure it out. You know how it
is. You gotta just see what
happened. But those figs there
were there was two of them.
They looked huge. I mean the
bases on those were like I
mean those things were old
dude. You're gonna have
probably a **** load of figs
on those two trees. Very nice.
It's like royalty fruit. Mm
hmm. You're growing royalty
now you know. And that's why
sugar that is anti anti you
know diabetes and insulin. It
helps you know if you have
that issue. It's one of the
sugars that is very beneficial
to eat. So I I found it kind
of a cool thing today. So we
went to the local dispensary
of the CBD shop and I got I
got this. So it's a it's a
liquor made with cannabis.
CBD. So it's it's like a
post-dinner aperitif. So you
know I figured we're on the
last little bit of the show
here and maybe people have some
questions to ask some questions
otherwise I'm gonna pour
myself a little glass with
some of that blood orange juice
from earlier. I'll take a shot.
I'll shave it. Oh yeah not not
not a shot but I'm just gonna
put a little bit in with that
blood orange juice and it'll
help me it'll help me digest
and sleep you know and and
maybe have a healthy soul. So
I can't have a shot. You're
not gonna pour me a shot. I
if you were here you there'd be
a shot for you in a second man.
Damn that blood orange juice
would've been good in there.
Mmm look at that. Damn. What
is that cannabis mixed with
vodka? I don't know. It's some
sort of liquor. I think they
do the brewing process with
it. I'm not too sure actually.
And I can't and it's in
Italian. So ooh ooh ecological
projects. I see you in the
chat. Maybe you read better
Italian than than than I speak
it. And I know you're Italian
so you can help me. What the
fuck does that say? So what's
in it? Maybe you could tell me.
It's not a little bit long.
Turn it a little down. It's
that it's that one right here
is a list of ingredients. The
top parts of description. I see
Stevia. That's the only thing
Stevia right? Yeah. And I'm
a Pirellia and either like what
type of alcohol is it used? I
don't know. Stevia is just
like a grappa sugar right?
Sugar. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah. So
then yeah. I bet that's pretty
tasty with that blood orange
too. Nice. It's pretty good.
The actual alcohol is quite
terrible. I'm going to be very
honest with you. It tastes just
I've done infused. That's
probably grain alcohol. Yeah,
it's looks like grains. You
get fucked up though. Oh, yeah.
It's yeah, it's 30% and then
we'll it'll do a lot to you.
But it's for digestion. It's
just just for the belly. So
yes, I don't have a token.
Bigger bottle of sugar water
and wheat flour. That's it.
That's that's the way to go is
just to get a big old bottle
water wheat flour and extra
herbs. I'm sore.
Well, we're we're finishing up
here. We're we're behind. I've
been fasting all day. So I had
to eat a little something. Okay,
you got a small window sometimes
with this, you know, but if you
guys want to get your some
questions in if you have them
otherwise, you know, London,
you know, you're always behind
the scenes man. So I'm glad
that we could put the spotlight
on you today and I hope you
know as the weeks and months
go by more people are inspired
the fact that you're out there
not only putting in the work
but you believe in yourself and
your family believes in you
enough that they moved with you
to Italy man. It's it's
inspiring.
Oh, it was their choice. I'm
surprised they did it too.
Yeah, man. I like this. This
should be motivation to be, you
know, like inspiration go do
some shit and we want to move
somewhere move somewhere, you
know, it doesn't have to be
Italy can be that place you
wanted to go and do the thing
you wanted to do, you know what
I mean, but you know do
something if you want to do it
or just stay where you're at
and do something but do some I
I'm allegedly going to put some
stuff down and I'll show you
actually I have a fun
collection. I'll give you just
to say I'll be right back.
All right, sounds like it might
be some glass.
Let me see what the chat is
talking about over here.
All right, so this oh, you just
lost power and turn that back
on.
So no central heating and air.
It's all done by that fireplace.
Americans have walls and two
foot thick walls to help to
I'm just saying man. I think
Americans we have no idea how
luxurious our lifestyle is.
Yeah, man. I mean, you could
call it luxurious. I mean, I
kind of I kind of think it's a
luxury to have a fireplace and
in your house, you know, like
it's kind of a luxury to go
go. Why do you think I mean
I that comes I come from a I
think it might be perspective
sometimes right? We always look
at these things like all of the
advantage of this and the
advantage of that and the
betterness of this and the
maybe like maybe this is Bella,
you know, maybe maybe maybe,
you know for me right now, it
feels awesome. But tell you
what, we're going to chat in
about six months of me having
a stroke this fire every night
and every morning and we'll
have a chat if I'm still thinking
the same way, but I do have
some stuff that might allegedly
fall into the soil at some
point. They actually have so we
had Atlas seeds, which we
actually got to hang out and
I actually carried in a brand.
They were at Spanavis and I'm
like the guy that goes. Hey,
you know, like I love your
vibe. I think you're really
cool. One with them. Hey,
what's this? Come come to
Italy. I've got a free place
for you to stay fly over here
in the area. It's 40 bucks,
you know, like you can get a
flight from Spain then it's
Italy one way for 40 bucks.
So it's like a hundred with
taxes and all the other stuff.
It's like a hundred and
something dollars. So like he's
like, yeah, no problem in
so a week afterwards. I
messaged him like are you
going to are you going to
cotton and he's like, yeah,
man, I'll put the flights right
now. I didn't think I don't
want to make sure you were
serious before you didn't know
that you followed up. He did
so he's still over got a
got to drive him to bar
bought Barry in the morning
to take him out, but they
left me with a massive
collection of various beans
of theirs, including their
blue Dom, their slurping
can their GMO bomb apparently
a really good hasher. So I'm
I really need to make sure
those get down because these
Italians, they don't know
their hash. Don't don't tell
them. I said that I'll
probably get shot. But you
know, some of this hash is
is nice, but it's like they
do stuff with it. Some
Top Gun, some grease gun
fat. So in face fat, so
a bunch of their really
cool line, a bunch of
their fun new stuff for me
to try out and see what's
going. So that's really
good. I got some stuff
that I got to bring back
from Canada. And there's
also some stuff that I'll
be running from sativa
creations as well because
I need some I need some
hiding hemp. So I need
some some good smokable
hemp that that that they
can come in test to
prove. Yeah, some high
Heidi have high hot hot
hampo.
Is that cannabis light?
It's a weird ass way to
say it, man. I know it
sounds crazy, right?
Cannabis light.
It's really great. I mean
like I got an opportunity
here to ask you guys like
you with you guys being
on the show and I'm doing
so many you you asked
a question to me earlier
that I thought was pretty
intriguing. I kind of want
to ask you both the same
if there was but I'm
going to word it a little
bit differently because I'm
going to frame it kind of
in a way that I answered
my question to is you
guys have had all these
opportunities over the last
little while to interview
all these amazing people.
Is that why it's brown?
No, you guys have all
these opportunity to
interview talk be part be
be integrated parts of your
community. What's something
that you've learned through
doing this show that that
has kind of like like like
you said, I think he said
like what's that bar of
gold that's come out of
doing this that that really
helped that's really helped
you in your everyday life.
Sorry for yawning. It's
like almost to yeah.
What have we what have we
learned from the show over
the years like kind of
like the main thing from
doing the show over that
many times maybe maybe
like whatever comes to
mind first. It doesn't
need to be like the main
most objective thing like
what's some piece that
really that really rings
maybe it's true to you
that found value with
doing the shows because I
mean you guys are inspiring
you have an amazing group
of following everybody
really enjoys we guys
before it so there's maybe
there's something that
sticks out as as as I'm
going to turn the
interview around on you
for just that. I like
that. I like that for me
one of the things that
sticks out was when we
interviewed Tim for
resin ranch extraction
because that was a part
for me and my hash making
process. You know, I
was I did the ice
water. I was fucking
with ice water and I
did that just didn't I
don't know. I don't like
it. I don't like the
process. You know, I
and when he started
talking about dry sift
and then he mentioned
like the Cuban grower
then he mentioned hash
church and he started
breaking all that down.
I was literally ready to
take my press and give
it to somebody. I think
the very next guest we
had or before that we
had a guest. I can't
remember who it was
and I was like before
the show. I was like
dude, I'll give you
this brand new press
just you know, send me
some product down the
road. Well, we didn't
do that. And after
you know running with
resin ranch. I said,
let me try dry. So
now that's taking me
down a nice rabbit hole
that I really like
quality wise. I love
the process. It works
for me. You know
what I'm saying? That
was a great guest that
we had another one
that for me a little
go bar Duke man. He
just said when he hit
when he said biomass
at the time and the
way he said it referring
to growing your plants
and veg all you're
doing is growing at
biomass. That was just
like a little key
thing that you always
do but you never
really hear it in
certain that certain
way. So kind of click
boom. We're growing
biomass. So from that
point on just kind of
just transition my
mind little switch to
change things or kind
of made me think about
things a little
different bullshit
man. We had so many
bars on this show
like it'd be awesome
if we just linked up
and compared notes
and like make put
a put something
together, you know,
how many different
things we've learned
but what do you got
Brian? What's something
to stand out for you
man? You know, as
we've been doing the
show like when I first
started working on
few, you know doing
stuff behind the scenes
on future canvas
project. I didn't even
have rubber ducky
ice pots. I had you
know, I'll be candid.
I you know, there
were a lot of things
that were running
through my mind of
you know, how the
hell am I going to be
able to make money
for my family in
2020? Things just
didn't look the right
way. I was working
for a company that
was like laughable
at best, you know,
just kind of really
maybe grasping at
straws. But what I
learned is even
though I've met up
with certain individuals
and I've learned
from a lot of people.
The one thing is
that no one can ever
take what you feed
your mind. And so
if you are constantly
watching this show
with us each and
every week, you're
investing in yourself
and then you get to
choose what people
realize what you
know. And I want
you guys over the
years. I've learned
to keep that shit as
close as you can.
Keep quiet. Be the
quiet person in the
room and listen
more and you'll
start to realize that
there's a lot of
noise out there.
So when you speak
make sure that
you're speaking with
like choice words
and I think you're
going to go a long
way in the cannabis
community as a whole.
There's just so much
fake shit out there
that when the genuine
individuals speak
people want to listen
to that and to
you know to mention
about Duke Diamond.
I mean that to me
that individual has
well that guy's been
fucked over a lot,
right? And most I
would say 99% of
the community has
no idea who it was
has no idea that
a lot of the
restraints from the
early days probably
came from Duke in
the first place.
Or two, you know,
there's a lot of people
here in Colorado
where people just
been ripped off.
So again understanding
the community putting
time and effort into
yourself because all
of these big-name
celebrity breeders
they've all for the
most part have been
fucked over by somebody
and then when you
get into the legal
world, it's on a
whole nother level
with the suits.
But what I've learned
time and time again
is that if you just
keep your head down
your goals at least
at first are to grow
in a tent to grow
in a basement just
to get your stuff
dialed in you're
going to find success
that way when you
just kind of.
Educate yourself on
a whole nother level
put time and effort
into what you're
doing and realize
that that's going to
come back to you
tenfold. Maybe not
even in cannabis.
I feel like I'm an
example of this, but
I put so much time
and effort at the
beginning trying to
even understand at
first what Dr.
Laningham was even
talking about and
for me Jeff
Lowenfeld's book
teaming with microbes
allowed me at my
educational level to
kind of understand
more of what was
being told and so
I've grasped all of
those things and
now I've been able
to find my own
little niche in my
own little world and
run with it and I
think more people
if they stay focused
on educating themselves
and don't give a shit
about all the stuff
that's around them
will find monetary
success a lot quicker
in life when they
just believe in
themselves and put
time and effort into
what they're after
and fuck all the
other stuff and I
think you'll find
like when you talk
about return on
investments when
we see London a
year from now.
I think you're going
to be surprised with
when take when people
take big calculated
risks the return that
seems to come back
to them when they're
genuine and when
they're authentic.
Damn, I can't wait
to see you grow
London. This is going
to be wonderful man.
I can't wait. It's
going to be just
I love it man. I
know that I can tell
that I know it's late.
I know you got your
but look I can feel
your energy. You got
that energy where
every day you can
actually wake up and
see a part of your
property. You haven't
seen yet or have it,
you know, haven't even
thought about it a
certain way. So man,
you have a great
you know, it's gonna
be a great future for
you. Can't wait to see
what you do with the
blank canvas and one
thing take a little
piece at a time and
it can get overwhelming
because you want this
over here. You want
that over there. You
can see that down
there and just from
my experience that,
you know, take your
time and feel it out
because you may end
up putting a little
bit of a path or a
road somewhere
different than you
thought you might
want it and you don't
want to plant a tree
there and have to be
mad worried about
moving it later. So
yeah, I think it's
gonna be great man.
London, you're
muted buddy.
Thank you guys. I
appreciate you all
and thanks for letting
me let me come on
and I'll do one
little thing. It's all
just shout out like
hey, come check out
some of my other
content and I produce
you know, check out
actually, you know,
I'll be straight up.
We're cutting cannabis
for breakfast right
now. There's two
main shows. I think
this is the best
community show that
we have on this on
this channel and to
be frank, we don't
we don't have enough
income coming in at
all for either of
these shows to be
able to like spend a
lot of time on them.
So I had to trim the
fat and the two
things that I find
the most value in
is this show the
community that puts
forward and that the
community and the
people that are
helping to lead at
YouTube Brian and
Marco, you're fantastic
fucking human beings
and you put in a lot
of work every single
week to do it. So I
wanted to make sure
to be here to support
that and also to
check out the day
calendar and because
we're going to
produce that every
single week Tuesdays
at 5 p.m. PST
because we have this
amazing group of
doctors and leaders
in pie. Oh, sorry.
I'm yawning. I'm not
crying. I'm yawning
these amazing group
of pioneers and
leaders in the space
that are really
actually doing these
fantastic things
whether it's our
culture biopics where
we have we're
bringing people like
Ross Rabiotti to
you know, bringing
in James White and
talking about the
race of age cycle
after after talking
and talking to Jeff
Lonsfeld, you know,
these are amazing
commerce conversations
that need to be
heard and that need
to be out there
because it can really
create a lot of clarity
and a deeper
understanding of
the plant the world
around us and what
we're doing in and
so check back each
and every fucking week
at at what time
is it noon
PST for every
Wednesday for the
Brian Marco show,
right? Mm-hmm.
And I before
EST
yes, and you
Brian Mountain
top to go in
to be a mountain top.
We're all up man.
We gotta say man.
Let's we're gonna get
the clocks. I'm gonna
get the world clocks
with all you know,
London France.
So we're gonna get
all that pop because
we're just worldwide
appreciate that.
Appreciate the love
we get from everybody
that watches every week.
Yeah, I just want to
put it out there that
if roles were reversed
and it was 2 a.m.
In Denver, there's no
way that I would be
able to talk to y'all.
I'm exhausted boy
all the time.
So London, we
appreciate you man
staying up and doing
this and it's an
hour even later than
it was going to be.
So that's what I mean
by you guys.
Well, I'm saying that
buddy because I get
when you have three
people that continue
to show up
even when it's not
necessary. There's no
monetary gains.
It's more just like I
believe in you too.
So I try to show up
and I hope that you
guys are doing the
same for me and
because of this kind
of stuff. I hope that
more people see that
this show is meant to
just inspire others
not only to grow
cannabis but to
grow yourself a little
bit and remember
what it used to feel
like to feel good
and maybe even have
a little extra
pep in your step
because you have a
little extra confidence
you're making the
right moves. I
think sometimes when
you make big moves
and they start to
take off gives you
more confidence to
now I would imagine
you're going to have
one hell of a grow
London and
you know, nothing
but success for you
and your family man
and you know,
please take care of
those two little
girls. I got my
one little girl
and I cannot imagine
you know move in
and all I just seem
like a
you're a brave man
to do all that with
three three women.
Yeah, it's a brave
brave day every day
you wake up
and get chased out
of the house by
these three beautiful
women get the fuck
out of there.
The thing is I needed
a place for them to
kick me out too. So
I think it's an
advantage for them
with the whole acre.
I won't bug them
anymore.
Yeah, we haven't even
talked about your
shed yet or you know,
you gotta have that
space out back a
little greenhouse down
the road probably
I know you got
no, there's a little
separate house actually
that that's like
just a decrepit hole
right now that I'm
going to turn into a
shed. It's a little
grain shelf and stuff
stick. It's gonna be
exactly again. Thank
you guys both.
All right.
Well, let's get
your time man.
And let this man
go to sleep. Thank
you, London.
Yeah, we'll see you
guys next week.
Again, just support
the channel, please.
The like button
actually matters in
this world. So if
you hit that like
button, that's all
we're literally
asking. If you
comment after this,
I guess that matters
as well. But hitting
the like button is
all we're really
asking and only if
you like it. So
we're just trying to
get the information
out there and I
hope that more
people see that
their time is
valued here with
our show. I'm
trying to give you a
bunch of fluff.
Just trying to have
interviews that are
organic in nature.
Yeah, so that we
well, I like
how this can
a little bit of fluff.
Some fluff with
some guests, but a
lot of that stuff
is direct to the
point. And that's
what I hope that our
audience sees is
that we're not
coaching. We're not
trying to have people
say they get to
come on here and
speak and be
whoever they want to
be. And sometimes
that rubs people
the wrong way. I
wouldn't even
necessarily say that
Marco and I agree
with every single
guest that we've
ever had on the
show. We're just
trying to have
diversity the same
way and learn from
a variety of
different people.
And things change
too. You know,
some people that I
felt like I used to
look up to. I
don't know. I
don't know if I feel
that way anymore.
So I like how
we're able to just
kind of roll with
the punches. And
for me, the
community is most
important. That's
why to this day
we've never made
money with it. And
we hope that you
guys find your own
way to make money.
And I hope that you
guys also see that
we're living proof
of it. And not
just sitting here
saying these things.
We're out here
putting in the work.
You know, I'm
driving to Texas
this weekend,
putting in the work
because eventually
it comes back to
where you have a
national brand. And
I hope all of you
find your way to
have a national
brand and for
London to have
his, excuse me,
international brand.
Well said, Brian.
All right. So
hey London, one
thing before we go
just be have some
pics every week
because we're going
to want a little
update. I mean,
at least some if
you're going to a
new area or if you
go to the butcher
or some man, we
want to see all
that kind of stuff.
I like seeing,
you know, the
local vibe. So
feel free to share
a little bit. Maybe
it would do a
little couple
minutes or some
each week.
I will, I will
definitely do that.
We like I'm not
very, I haven't
been very active
because it's just
been a fucking
whirlwind, but
like we've had
some guests over
so luckily
tomorrow, we are
back to just
basic life. So we
get to focus on
some of those
things and by
fluff. I mean,
I'm fluffy as
fuck. I like to
talk about the
fluffy little
things that make
me happy. I
mean it in that
way. That way.
I'll be the
fluffy one.
There we go.
Thanks again
guys. Are you
going to push
the thingy or
should I push?
