All right, I believe we are live. Welcome everyone. We're gonna raise some money
for a good cause tonight. I have the logo of Food Not Bombs up on the screen right
now, which is a nonprofit that's been around for how many years? 40 years.
So we started it in May of 1980. Okay, and you personally, you're up in the
Santa Cruz area? Yeah, I'm in Santa Cruz and I do Food Not Bombs here with my
local chapter at the corner of Laurel and Front Streets. And the first hundred
days I did it every single day. Now we've got like a really good group of
volunteers. So I have, I'm the Sunday Monday driver and cook on Sunday.
And we come out at 12 noon every day and set up. And then people like Homeless
Garden Project, FEMA for a short while, sometimes the Red Cross and there's
other community people just start bringing food once we're set up. And then
we bring out hot, you know, usually it's sandwiches, stuff like that. And then
we like, you know, we have an intense social distancing procedure that we have.
We give out free masks to everyone. We will like, you know, we don't feed you
unless you've got a mask because we think that's important. And it's
hard for people living outside to keep masks, you know, and have them
available when they need to go into like CVS or something. So for many people,
probably at least a hundred people, we are the food for them. And, you know,
there's been more food like organized in Santa Cruz over the course of the
time of the pandemic, but we have been the really the consistent every day. You
know, you can get like a full meal, hot meal. We have like professional chefs
that are often the main people preparing the meals like Joe at India Joe's and
other chefs who come in and volunteer. So the food, try to make it as gourmet as
possible. And it's, we also always had a policy of abundance that people can have
as much food, you know, we don't, you know, if you want third, fourth, fifths, you can
come. We have a lot of people who have had to move into town because of losing
their, their homes in Boulder Creek and Bonnie Doon and so on. And are, you know,
rely on, rely on us still on their meals. And even more so actually, because some
of the other programs have had to shut down as they have a lot less funding, or
they were only, you know, available for the first few weeks after the, after the
fires. So we have been a stable location. And it's also Food Out Bombs is doing
this, handling these issues all around the world. And currently, for instance,
we're working on the, there was a category five typhoon that wiped out a lot of the
Philippines and our local chapters there are scrambling to make sure people have
food and they're trying to set up cell phone towers and those kinds of things,
which we have had experience in doing both in Indonesia, well, actually, Indonesia,
Malaysia and the Philippines. And so we also face those kinds of issues. And our
Florida groups are also dealing and, and the Gulf region groups are dealing with people
who have had to leave from the floods and so on. So.
And there are...
And how have things changed, you know, since the fire? Did you hear that?
I didn't hear the question. No.
Oh, just kind of like how has the fire impacted everything in terms of, you know,
the, you got the, you know, pandemic and then the fire hits.
That was a freak out because, first of all, a lot of people came by to get clothing
because they just walked away from wherever, you know, they fled and they didn't bring any
clothing. So we were like a mainstay for giving people pants, shirts, those kind of things,
socks. And they were right, right at the beginning of the fire.
That was huge. Number of people were coming to us for those kind of things as well as food.
It was also, you know, at the beginning, a little sketchy as to where facilities would be to get
help because the county and the city and the federal government were rushing to figure out those things.
Now, fortunately, FEMA set up at the arena, Permanente Arena, which turns out to be right across the street from
Food Not Bought, where we were.
So we were able to send a lot of people there.
We were very visible being on that corner.
And they'd heard somehow that there was like help through FEMA and then go, it's just right over there.
So that was one thing.
The other thing was that there was kind of a logistical issue because we put out the word for clothing and then
eventually we had so much clothing, we were like filling the Little Red Church's part of their facility full of
clothes each night because we just got so much.
But then eventually that all got used up.
And then we also had like a lot of logistical issues surrounding making sure we got food to the right places,
that we had, you know, that we it was just like a massive influx of people all of a sudden.
And then also at the same time, an influx of food and an influx of clothing.
And so it was really crazy.
The other thing that was a problem for people is electricity.
So we were doing a lot of like, you know, charging cell phones and so on.
And that's something we still do because there's just not a lot of access to outlets if you don't have a place to live.
And so those have been some of the issues.
And then trying to funnel people into other services.
For instance, there is storage areas that a man by the name of Brent Adams is on Felker Street and to direct people
off to these other services was really important as well.
And many people came and were so there was like a whole also chaos in the shelter situation.
So we were always trying to update where shelters were and where people could go.
And then then we'd find out that the shelters were like shut down because they didn't have enough need.
But then maybe but still we were getting lots of people looking for them.
And so that kind of thing.
So it was. And then, of course, being out there all day in the smoke was really intense.
And I know a lot of people were struggling just to breathe because of the smoke, even at Laurel and Front Street, which was, you know, miles away from the fire.
But still, like anybody knows in Santa Cruz, there was all those red days where it was like this really the worst possible air quality.
So and then the pandemic has also created another whole layer of crisis.
So of people losing their jobs.
And I think that post about restaurant workers, a lot of unemployed restaurant workers who and I remember even like right at the beginning of the pandemic, a number of waitresses from Denny's were eating with us.
And and we're really struggling because they relied on the tips and on their on that job.
And we found a lot of people have become unable to pay their rents.
And for whatever reason, because of the moratorium laws and so on, not being as strong as could be the moratorium on evictions, people got evicted anyway.
And so we've seen a lot of new unhoused people who are just desperate and we're worried that the number of unhoused people is going to grow dramatically.
The Princeton eviction project estimates that 40 million Americans are facing eviction this winter.
And that number actually potentially could be going up even compared to when they last reported.
And that there's like, you know, over 50 million people don't know where they're getting their next meal in the United States.
And we are also getting this really new thing that's never happened before is so I'll be friends with Tallahassee Food Not Bombs Facebook page.
And I will notice that some people like put pictures of their kids on the timeline and said, I'm single dad.
I have no food.
I don't have any money for gas to even get to food bank.
Can somebody help me?
And then you'll see another one of another family sending their pictures of their kids going like, you know, I'm in South Carolina.
I have no food.
Can somebody please help me?
I've never seen that before.
And in October, that started happening regularly.
People posting pictures of their families desperate for food.
And then we have a whole system of how to connect with those people.
But it's heartbreaking.
And, you know, I've been like I said, been doing this 40 years.
And while Facebook is relatively new and context and people are homebound because they, you know, because of quarantine and because of the pandemic.
And then they don't have any food, no way to get work.
And so reaching out on Facebook like this is really heartbreaking.
And that's also at the same time, there's many, many people calling our hunger hotline, which is the phone that I answer the 1-800-884-1136.
And the stories there are just heartbreaking of people desperate for food.
And then so I spending a lot more of my time now hooking people up all around the country with meals because the desperation is just getting so extreme.
Right. Well, we're going to try to raise a whole lot of money for you tonight.
We got a we got the Brady Bunch intro.
We just need one to we need what, two more people for the full Brady Bunch.
But anyway, we we appreciate you setting the table.
We're going to be doing these regularly.
And Food Not Bombs is is our inaugural beneficiary of some fundraising and we're going to spread the love around.
And we got a crew of of amazing breeders and cultivators and people who give a shit about more than themselves on and watching as well.
So let's let's get started.
And OK, thank you, Keith.
Thank you, Peter. Thank you, everyone, for your attention, your support.
And that was wonderful. The last time I was with you all and I stayed the whole time.
But it was really fun.
But I need to get back to some other stuff.
So I'll check in a little bit.
Bye bye. All right.
See you.
OK, so you guys ready to get started?
Should we should we start with the guy who's up the latest?
Brandon, you want to.
Sure, sure.
For anybody who's not familiar with me, panel members or any of the people that are listening.
My name is Brandon Rust.
I'm the cultivation director at Majestic Craft Cannabis and I own my own farm.
On my own farm, we still don't have a name yet.
It's a thing in progress.
But you can find my social media channel on a I.G.
at Rust Brandon, all one word.
You see the majority of the body of my work there.
And you can also find a link to my company, Bokashi Earthworks, in my bio.
Got it. So what?
What do we want to start with?
I'm looking at the hold on because you had a couple different items, right?
That you want or something you wanted to swap in.
Yeah, so all this stuff.
So let me give a little back story on kind of what what I put up into the auction.
So I started cultivating in 2002 and I was fortunate enough to work with some older guys,
some O.G.s that had been doing indoor since 1992.
And they kind of took me under their wing and I worked for those guys for about two years before I started doing it on my own.
And they had like a circle, you know, of their friends that cultivated.
And I worked alongside with a lot of different people in this circle.
And one of these guys who's, he doesn't have a social media.
He's, you know, he doesn't have like an Insta or he doesn't share anything like that.
But he had a really large seed bank from the early 2000s.
And I was fortunate enough to get a hold of a bunch of his work.
Some of the stuff that I ran back in the day.
Some of the, like the Blueberry Trainwreck, some Romulan crosses.
I think there was some Bull Rider crosses in there.
And so these are really old seeds.
I actually was able to run through most of these.
I have a lot of them going right now.
And I'm doing it a bit, that I have a big pheno hunt going on.
So one of the things I sent in, I had really poor, I didn't have any germ, I had no germination rate.
So I figured I'd swap that out with something else.
But everything else that I sent, I think I sent some Blueberry Trainwreck times MK Ultra.
I think I sent, which is the backstory on the Blueberry Trainwreck was my friend got a hold of some seeds from this first Blueberry drop.
I think it was F4 Blueberry.
And I think the late 90s, 98, I think.
And he found a really good male out of that pack.
And he started crossing a bunch of the stuff that we had going, that he had going.
I later got a hold of it.
He did Blueberry Romulan, Blueberry Trainwreck, Blueberry Bull Rider.
He did a bunch of them.
That Blueberry Trainwreck was actually one of my favorite varieties that I've ever cultivated.
And he crossed that with a MK Ultra.
I think that was from a seed company in Amsterdam.
I think it was White Label, if I'm not sure.
But I can't remember 100% sure what he told me.
But those ones were made in, I think, 2003, all the MK Ultra crosses.
I can't remember what else I had.
Adam, do you remember what other ones that I donated?
Yeah, I got them right here.
I got a Yoda Kush times MK Ultra.
Also a Romulan times Blueberry F2 times MK.
And then, yeah, the Trainwreck times Blueberry times MK.
And you said the Max 49 was the one you were pulling for germ rate.
So set that one aside.
Yeah.
Okay, so the, I think it's, because I have a bunch of these seeds myself too.
Romulan Blueberry MK Ultra.
The Romulan cut has been, they've had that cut in their circle since the early 90s.
And I grew it out.
I actually named my dog who passed away not too long ago, Romulan.
She was like 17.
He took that Blueberry male, hit that Romulan.
And that was another variety that we were growing back in the day.
In San Diego.
And he crossed, he had a good MK Ultra male that he used on some of the other varieties that he had made.
So this is, I have some of this going right now.
It's a really, a lot of these varieties are taking on the stature of the MK.
Where they're just these really like short stocky, bushy plants.
They have really big, wide, broad leaves.
I think I have some Blueberry Trainwreck MK Ultra.
That's going to be going up too.
I actually have some of that running right now.
I'm like three weeks in the flower.
And if you're a fan of Trainwreck, all these ones, the majority of the phenos that I've run so far.
They all lean really, really heavy on Trainwreck.
On the Trainwreck side.
Except they have more of a like a sweet, like a sweet fruity front end on this particular variety.
And then I get some phenos in that that are just more of like the kind of like Hindu.
Where it's just like a more deeper kind of earthy incense musk.
That still has a little bit of like lemon that comes through maybe from the Trainwreck.
And then the other one I think was a Super Silver Haze, right?
That was the Max 49 Grapefruit I think that you said you had the germination problems with.
Yeah, okay.
Yeah, that was the Super Silver.
It was theirs.
Yeah, so.
I mean if you have.
I remember the Blueberry Romulan.
What was the third one?
I'm a little bit.
So Brandon, if you look at the screen right now.
Take a look at the screen.
So that's the first one, right?
Yeah.
That's the second one.
You got it?
Yeah.
The Yoda Kush, that's right.
Yeah, that Yoda Kush was another one that was really good.
This one I have going too.
This one.
I'm all just vegging these.
The Blueberry Trainwreck MK Ultra are the ones that I have that are actually flowering out right now.
I'm pretty stoked on those.
I'm going to do a project with those where I'm going to just keep breeding towards the Blueberry Trainwreck side.
The Yoda Kush MK Ultra is another.
You're going to get out of these phenos everything that I'm finding.
Again, they're all really short stocky plants, really broad wide leaves.
It's very reminiscent of the Hindu varieties.
And I expect to see that all the way through.
But I haven't fully run these.
Again, these are really old seeds that are from the early 2000s.
I'm sure that whoever ends up grabbing these is going to find some real gems in here.
Okay, so which one do we want to start?
Basically, how many different packs are we putting up?
I couldn't really keep track of...
So it's the three that Adam has and then you have a couple more that you have?
Yeah, I have some of the Lime Marilla x Lime 1 BX that sold out.
And then I have a pack of the Gorilla Glue 4 x Lime 1 BX that sold out.
And then I have a Skunk One Blueberry x Johnny Blaze.
And then the Johnny Blaze was a project I think with Legend Seeds back in the day.
With DJ Short and it was a Neville's Haze x Blueberry.
Alright, so what do we want to start with?
Let's start off with that Romulan Blueberry.
Alright, and so what was that? It was...
That is... It was a Blueberry Romulan which was a Romulan clone x a F4 Blueberry Male.
And then that was hit with a MK Ultra Male.
So does that do it justice?
Blueberry Romulan x MK Ultra.
Alright, hold on.
Or Romulan Blueberry I guess if you're being technical.
Some people get picky about putting the female and male first.
Alright, is that better?
That's it right there.
Alright.
And Jackson, what should we start this at?
What should we start it at? I always start mine really low man.
When I do auctions.
I don't know. Start it at 50 bucks or something.
Wow, alright.
I don't know.
And Cascadian, our Whipcracker.
You ready to do the five minute drill?
And just to kind of set some auction ground rules.
Someone asked before, are we shipping? Can we ship internationally?
Generally, yes.
I would say maybe just add like 20 bucks to your win amount.
So that the breeder who's shipping at least is partially covered for the shipment.
And then basically Food Not Bombs, they have a donation page which is powered by PayPal.
So if you already know that you cannot use PayPal, don't win the auction.
And then have us have to deal with you telling us that you can't make a payment.
So we...
Oh, sorry. And how many seeds are in there, Brandon?
I want to say that there's a dozen seeds in those packs.
Okay, so it is a 12 pack.
And yeah, let's say $10 increments.
Definitely not the $1 increments that we've seen occasionally.
Heuristic value, I think PayPal accepts it as long as the money transfers.
So if you've ever used PayPal with your debit card.
But all right.
You have to remember, these seeds are really old.
I have had really good germination rates.
I haven't had any problems whatsoever.
But these, like I'm saying, the genetics are old.
Somebody's going to find some really cool stuff in here.
All right, so we're starting at 50. Can we get a 50?
And Santa Cruz Cup brought up the...
A vigorous grandpa. Wow, under the water overkill already at 200.
So we're going to start at 50.
And then we're going to go to the next one.
A vigorous grandpa. Wow, under the water overkill already at 200.
And then basically whoever wins, I'll send you a form to fill out.
It's just a link to a Google form.
So it's basically like enter your contact info so we know how to keep in touch with you.
And Dr. Dre or Dre Day.
I'll send the Foob Not Bombs link.
Is there a payment page? Give me one second.
So basically when you win, I mean, we'll put this back up, but...
It's basically just at the Foob Not Bombs website and you can type in your amount.
All right, so where are our hype men at?
Jackson, is this intriguing to you?
I'm supposed to hype everything up?
I'm just going to repeat the last word of every sentence and jump up and down.
And like throw water on Rust over there or something, you know?
Throw a bucket of water on his tank top, you know?
That's another hype man, right?
No, yeah, I mean, dude, anything that's old, it's going to be some different stuff.
Golden Coast Dave was just like, yeah, if MKUltra is old school, I'm old.
I was like, yeah, well, you're old, dude.
We're all a little old at the shit that was out when we were 20 years ago.
I remember when I was like 15, somebody went to give me some Burmese syndicate seeds out in Branscom where I used to live.
And this lady was like, yeah, I got these old Burmese syndicate seeds.
They're from 85 and it was 95.
And I was like, yeah, they'll never pop.
And I didn't know better.
Now I realize they were probably still viable and I totally fucked up.
And I can never shake that off.
But if there's something been in the fridge and it's been in there for 15 or 20 years, that's potential to get something different.
He gave me some of this stuff and I'll definitely pop it to check it out because there's different things in there.
But yeah, I mean, I think it can hype itself if people understand what old genetics means.
It just means you might find something different.
It's not going to have cookies in it.
It's not going to have, you know, I think MK Ultra, I can't remember what that is.
Does that have OG in it?
If it does, it's like a whole different thing.
No, the MK Ultra is Hindu times G13.
It's Master Kush times G13.
Okay. Yeah.
I mean, the Master is a good old Hindu.
I would try it.
I wanted to get the MK Ultra for years when I used to look like in the magazines and the catalogs and stuff.
I was like, oh, that was one that looked attractive to me.
So I'm stoked to get some crosses of it.
Funny as it is, I just got some from Tyler at Buds and Roses.
He just gave me a sack of LA Confidential.
And I had seen LA Confidential maybe 2007, I guess, at the Emerald Cup.
And it was really fruity.
And I was like, wow, it's pretty nice.
It seemed like real exotic and different to me.
I was curious what he was going to give me.
And he asked me, check it out.
He was like, I don't know what the LA Afi was, but does it lean there?
And I was like, I don't know.
I don't really know that Afu cut that was popular.
Sour Wave said he could get it a long time ago.
And I never got it from him and missed out on it.
But I got the weed and it's from an early release, I guess.
It's very close to the Hindu clone cross black Afi that I had back in the day.
Which makes me wonder if it's the same.
But that's that thing when things are old, those things pop out that are like nostalgic shit you can't find anymore.
And a lot of people would think like, oh, LA Confidential, whatever, it's common.
But this type that it is, it's interesting.
It has that hint of that Ghanian shit.
And I'd imagine that that old master crosses from back in the day probably carry that same kind of thing.
That's like what made Jaro and Root Beer and some of those things that have that funk, you know, old school Afghani kind of shit.
Yeah, I'm really excited to be able to run these because I hadn't had an opportunity and he gave me a lot of different seeds.
Like that China ride that I gave you, I couldn't get.
There was three varieties that he gave me that I had trouble with, which was a back cross train wreck that he had.
The China rider, which was the bull rider times heroin that I gave to you.
And then the Max 49, the Max 49 grapefruit.
But all the ones with the super silver haze and all the MK Ultra Crosses, I couldn't get.
And the MK Ultra Crosses, they all did pretty well.
And I have a bunch of them going.
And I just wanted to, because I wanted to do this next like pheno hunt at the farm that we're building.
I wanted to start off with a bunch of old school stuff that we ran back in San Diego.
Because out here in Oklahoma, you know, people didn't get to have that.
You know, they didn't get to have those old school genetics.
It skipped from like they were smoking really bad weed to like the best weed that they have out here is all like, you know, the cookies crosses right there.
You know, so being able to have that progression like that I got to see in California where it was like, you know, all these like blueberries and the bubble berries, the bull rider, you know, all of these, you know, cat piss, stuff like that.
And then we started seeing more of the koshers and the OGs.
And just to kind of have that progression so people out here can have the full experience that I got to kind of have, you know, over the years with all the different varieties that there are and all the different flavor profiles and all the different types of highs that you can experience.
You know, that's what these old varieties offer.
They offer a set of a kind of nostalgic, you know, type of variety that that's not going to be something that has, you know, that's all homozygotic where it's been bred so many times into something that it's just going to be the same across the board like so much of today's cultivars.
All right, so we got Philip Mobley at 220.
We want to just wrap it at that if we have any last second bids.
Yeah, that's right. Yeah, I agree with stock strong style organic.
Oh, shy. There we go.
Look at that huge movement from 220 to 230.
240.
Oh, we have a 240.
They're going to fill up.
I like this.
Minutes ago.
Damn.
260.
Sean and then but right back at him.
70.
A battle.
A minute.
We're watching this $10 by $10 battle.
I'm supposed to get a tuxedo and yell.
Where's he?
With the drop down.
Actually, with a mic like this, right?
Yeah, I'm waiting to get the tux until I go totally bald.
Wow, it's Phil Mobley 285.
We're going in $5 increments.
So we'll go.
All right. 15 seconds and it's yours, Philip.
Oh, my God.
Lewis coming out of nowhere.
I like the 299 bid.
All right.
So Luke.
Oh, Philip.
Damn.
All right.
We got a winner, right?
Everyone in agreement.
All right.
So Philip Mobley, let us.
And we'll get faster at this.
But since this is the first one.
Let me send you where to.
Fill out the form.
Which is basically.
But while we're doing that, why don't you guys you want to pick Brandon the next one?
And then we'll move on to maybe John.
You can go next.
How about this?
How about this?
The stuff that I'm running right now, the train wreck, blueberry times MK Ultra.
This one I'm actually working.
I'm going to work this line.
The blueberry train wreck was one of my hands down.
My favorite terpene profiles.
And these have a lot of it.
It's not perfect on there like like I'd like it to be.
But the the the plants that I have right now, they're they're only in three.
They're only in week three and they're wreaking.
I ran them to I ran this variety earlier this year.
Same thing.
For the most part, I got the really heavy train wreck, which is like, you know, the pine lemon.
So just quickly, is it this one?
Yeah.
OK.
That's it.
That was a it's kind of has like the train wreck, but it has a more sweet front end, like a sweet fruity front end.
And then it has that pine lemon that like that's really, really strong that cuts through the whole the whole profile.
And I'm working with this one right now because I want to try to select out the train wreck characteristics where they get really where they stretch a whole lot in flower.
And I would like to try to get the same profile from the MK Ultra, because what I'm seeing right now, there's typically two variances in the phenotypes, which is one which is reminiscent of the MK, which is that short, short stature.
The big broad leaves and then the train wreck.
Leaning ones, which are a lot more tall, they have a lot more side branching that come up.
The leaves are are big, but they're thinner and then they they stack really, really nice.
Main colas, the flower sets are really, really the note spacing is really small and the flowers, they get really dense on these ones.
And just as a reminder.
All right. So should we start it off low again?
Yeah.
All right. Let's start it at 50 and see where it goes.
Timer started.
I think that anybody who gets this is going to be really, really stoked. I'm really, really happy with what I'm finding.
We got a 125 bit bid.
There's a 150.
Was a 150.
Did you get any of the other panel members grow train wreck?
Or have grown train wreck and what was their experience with it?
I grew up for a while here in Eugene, like late 90s, early 2000s. It was a nice waste train that had that unique, spicy kind of, I don't know.
It was amazing for really what it was.
Very unique. I didn't really like it much. It was really like, I don't know, just kind of had something to it that it wasn't really my style.
But it was cool. Very unique. Very, very unique.
And the way that a bracket structure of it was, was very cool.
Right around the time people were growing Urkel.
I'd say right before Urkel came in or right around that time, like when it got popular in the early 2000s, there was a train wreck. Up and Humble people grew train wreck at the time.
And a little bit before that, there's people who I talked to who had a little more of a broad leaf train wreck.
It was a little more Hindu-y and more deep and funky. And then there was the popular one that was more like pine chemical train wreck.
And like the real train wreck is awesome. It's like a really small leaf plant, which is cool to me because you get buds all the way in.
Buds are really narrow and dense and they're just caked in resin. And it has this cool color that I always thought of as being almost like kind of like a hint of turquoise on top of the green.
It has this neat kind of a color to it where it's kind of like silver blue, a little tiny bit.
And it has real thin, thin branches. So it gets tons of buds all over the place.
And I thought it was really cool and I like the smell and the taste of it.
I always joke about shit that's like washed out train wreck because there's a lot of stuff that has that kind of a terpenellin dominant smell, but it's really weak and like smells like milky to me.
Like someone like it's just like watered down and that kind of shit I don't like.
But the train wreck is a neat one. I have an HP 13 bagsy that I've kept the clones since 2008 from Hawaii.
And that's kind of like in the ballpark, but a little bit different. It's more like pine salt, but the real train wreck was cool.
I don't remember ever really growing it myself, but it was so common that I was like in a lot of grows where people grew it.
And yeah, it has that look like that. Super neat. Just buds. The buds are long and buds deep in and really nice.
This is another Pheno right here. It's a little shout. It's a little going to be a little more denser flower set.
This plant in the very back back here is actually the one that has more of the blueberry.
And then this one here that's more shortened squat has more of the MK Ultra.
But yeah, this is one of the Pheno right here.
And they're really stinky. They smell like, you know, they have kind of like a tiny pepper and they're still developing.
But they have like kind of a sweet perfume and like pepper and a little bit of pine. I can the lemon start the limonene starting to come through.
Well, we lost your video, Brandon.
Yeah, I know. I shut it off. I'm moving back out of my got to get.
So we're at the go ahead. I was going to say, as the bits come in, can you post it?
How you post the comment across the screen so when people look, they can see what the high comment is because someone was just saying there's too many comments.
I can't see what the bid is. Yeah, the last the last one was 280. Sean Ferguson. That's where we still are.
That's the winner of that one. All right. Sean Ferguson. I know Sean. What's up, Sean?
Where is Sean in Oklahoma or California?
No, he is back east, I believe. I got it.
And that was for 280, right?
Yes, it was. OK, so let's John, you want to you want to take a turn?
Sure, I'll take a turn.
But I bring a couple of things.
A few packs left of this collab I did with Bodhi and.
Pulled a few out of that for this. I've.
Add them a bunch of stuff kind of right off the get go.
A couple crosses.
Some golden pineapple.
I am golden pineapple.
Seven or eight.
This.
Also, some of the coach by a thing of a sourdough cheese.
And from my understanding, this this 70 app, he's got a little bit of controversy on it.
My friend gave me some pollen from some stuff that he got from Leo.
But Bam told me that, you know, the true genetic makeup of it from what he was saying was.
So I don't really understand. I don't know the lineage and I don't know the history and whatever.
But either way, I put that pollen at the time.
I just got a little bit of pollen.
And I'm not sure what it was.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
But that pollen at the time, I just got a little pill of pollen.
So I put it to this sour OG from a Miko that was tells angels OG by sour diesel ideal.
And pretty much every single, you know, that I popped to that was amazing.
I mean, really because she really just lots of.
Anywhere from, you know, gassy lime, like just really and you see fuels to.
I mean, it's just really a, you know, really, really, really nice, really strong.
Most of the most of the females were kind of in that ballpark.
But 10 and four turned out to be like kind of have this very incense.
Very incense.
I'd say patchouli, but like kind of a rose lime fuel.
Very, very, very, very, very nice.
So anyway, I put that pollen to.
The golden pineapple, the sour best shit ever and that sour OG and.
Then just started goofing around with things.
So anyway, the 10 and two was my favorite out of all that.
So it's kind of like a.
Like a new age, sour diesel, a little more speedy, a little more.
How they kind of more like super glue kind of mixed with that can fuel.
So and really.
You know, between that and the age, because I made years back, they're my two favorite all there.
So I'd be a good candidate for the ancient OG.
So.
So I thought I'd bring those ones up.
Also, but bodies, ancient OG to the GMO as I saved a little pollen from that collab.
He gave me five males and I think four males maybe.
And, you know, collect the pollen, did what I could do with it and then saved a little.
Put it to the GMO and then back to his pine.
So just for, you know.
For us, really. So just gave him some seeds last time I saw him.
So I thought I'd release a few packs of those five packs.
I mean, obviously, we're not going to have much time for that kind of stuff, but.
But I'd release those because those were just kind of for something I wanted to do for myself and some for him for, you know, just as a gift of appreciation.
But I thought we'd.
It'd be good for this. So I wanted to release some of those out.
I think I only had.
I know it didn't make very many seeds.
It was just there was just a little bit of pollen left.
So.
Well, you want to start with that.
That's the GMO ancient OG.
Yeah, I mean, might as well do it.
So let's do a pack of that.
And and this is a Bodhi Green Bodhi collaboration, right?
Well, it's not really. I mean, yeah, it is a collab, but it's not a collab.
You know, it's just we didn't we didn't release this or this wasn't something planned.
This was out of a project that he gave me the pollen for for this other project where we donated all the proceeds to his holiness, the Dalai Lama's library museum project where we raised over 15K for that.
So it's pretty cool. Really, really nice.
But anyway, I had some pollen left. So I threw it by this GMO.
Which this cuts really nice, basically smells like, you know, wheel bearing grease and fuel kind of, you know, doesn't really have much cookie, whatever.
But.
Mameko, from my understanding, made this chem cookies, he doesn't get much credit for it, but it's called GMO and popped out or whatever.
But from my understanding, that was the formulator.
But anyway, what we got going right now, we just did a bunch.
We don't have any photos of it or anything, but they all turned out really nice.
So I'm going to kind of run through them.
I just actually got the jars dropped off to me earlier.
So I check a few of them out.
And someone asked how many is it, 10 or 12 seeds in the pack?
11 seeds.
11 seeds.
OK, and we're already at Chris Jennings is jumping out.
At 250.
All right, so we have Chris Jennings at 250.
Adam, about how many packs were sent to you over the past couple of months?
And you're on mute.
But before we went live, we practiced hitting the unmute button over and over.
Yeah, I can tell you a little bit, a lot, way more than I ever anticipated.
The community has been incredibly generous.
I think we don't have a tally, like a complete count.
I know there's a master list that's being made and it's not even completed.
We've still had seeds coming in even in the last few days.
I think it's got to be somewhere between 1,200, 1,500 packs, maybe more.
So we're going to start doing some 24 and 48 hour auctions on an I.G. page.
And we're going to be doing this every Tuesday.
And I think we're going to try and get a Web site going where we can, you know,
hopefully try and move as many as we can and raise as many funds as we can.
And there's been talk about maybe doing something long term and permanent
because I know we're going to have more fires, you know, in the years to come
and maybe use this as an opportunity to catapult this into something much bigger.
So we got our work cut out, I think, somewhere between 1,200, 1,500 packs of seeds
to get moving.
So, yeah, it's going to be fun.
10 to 12 seeds at a time.
Yeah, we got some 50s, 100s.
We got some, you know, we got some other packs coming down the pipeline.
But, yeah, you know, we got five packs and seven packs too.
So, yeah, we're going to be doing a lot of different things.
All right.
So we still have – was it Chris Jennings or who was it?
I got to scroll back to the –
Yeah, Chris Jennings is at 250 still.
All right.
A minute and a half to go.
We will leave it on Chris Jennings until someone else tops him.
And so what else?
I mean, in terms of what you're working on right now, what's kind of –
Well, just brought down a bunch of plants we're working through right now.
I reversed the hazy cush, put it by quite a few things.
And then I reversed the Skywalker OG and put it by some things,
just trying to do some internal stuff.
And just – I don't know.
I've never really reversed anything, so I thought I'd give it a try
and see what happens, you know.
I've never really been a fan in the past, but I try new things, see how it goes.
But I don't know.
Tried it a few times on a few other things, but it didn't produce the pollen.
So this was kind of – put it by the Hollywood Pure Cush, put it by both these
Tenzins, put it by itself, put it by the Sour Best Shed Ever,
just trying to maybe pick a few things for myself.
A lot of – I'm just like doing some breeding.
I'm definitely not a breeder by any means, and I'm just trying to create
things that I'm going to be able to have in my jar all day
and then offer that to others, you know.
So this is kind of something I just created for in-house potential in the future.
You know, I put the Skywalker by Mr. Bob Hamfield Graham.
He gave me a Purple Hindu Cush, so I put the Skywalker by that
and put it by a few other things just to see if something neat can come out of it.
That Purple Hindu Cush he gave me was kind of – I think it's what –
I don't know. It's really, really nice.
I was kind of shocked. I didn't realize it was – the turt profile was so unique.
I don't know. I kind of really need to give things the gene so you can
describe them more eloquently, but like between the – you know, really like the fuel-y.
It was kind of – the lime and the citrus and really it kind of has something else
that I just – I don't know. I haven't really tasted before, so it was quite enjoyable.
And I didn't really – you know, I basically got it to make something, you know,
Purple OG kind of style thing.
So I think it's going to fit the mark, so we'll see if something comes out of it well.
All right. So we have Chris Jennings at 340, right?
And where did Chris go? Chris seems quite pleased with himself.
All right. So let me just quickly note that – all right.
Do we want to keep kind of rotating around? Anyone – I don't know.
Jackson, are you putting anything up or –
I wasn't. I didn't have anything pulled out, but I was going to maybe look through
a couple things in a little bit if there's in-between time or something.
I grabbed a little bag of stuff that I had sitting to look through, you know?
Got it. All right. Well, Brandon, you want to go again?
Sure. Let's see. We did the train wreck.
Train wreck. Okay. So this one is the replacement for the one I sent,
so I'll be sending this one out myself.
This is going to be the SkunkOne Blueberry times Johnny Blaze.
Johnny Blaze is Blueberry times Nevels Hayes.
I've seen this run a couple years ago.
Gema was, I think, running this. They were calling it Purple Hayes at the time.
It has a very, very unique terpene profile.
It's kind of hard to describe because it's kind of like –
it's like a really fruity front-end pine that has this strange perfume kind of musk mixed in,
like a peppery perfume musk.
It has kind of like a minty pine kind of back end.
This is another one that I'm currently hunting through again.
This is a really nice cross. I like this one a lot.
All right. So just so I can – what is it again?
It's SkunkOne Blueberry times Johnny Blaze.
B-L-A-Z-E?
Yes.
Like that?
Yep.
All right. We haven't even started it, but we got a – I guess we did start it.
180.
Dean Watson.
Oh, this was 2001. It was created – all of these seeds are all either 2001 or 2003.
All the MK Ultra is, I think, 2003.
Then any of the Blueberry – because I have some blue – I have some stuff that I haven't pulled out.
I know you guys are going to be going through lots and lots of seeds,
so I figured later on down the line I can pull some other stuff out that I have, some other seeds.
I don't mind helping out if I can help raise some capital for people that are affected by all the crazy situations
and the fires that have happened this year.
I'm all about it. I just want to say, too, I'm really grateful to be a part of this,
to be able to just give back to the community. It's just a really good thing.
I'm really glad that we're able to do this.
While we're all locked down at home, we can hang out and do some good.
All right. So that was the – so where are we at now?
Yeah, if you guys don't know, this guy's work, I kind of – I think about a year ago, maybe eight months ago,
I stumbled on his page. He's always sharing just tons of information and tips
and really getting into the scientific aspect of what he's doing.
You can see from his work, I know even in the last week he's been posting a ton of photos.
This guy gets down and does some really incredible stuff.
I know hearing a little bit about his story and where he's been and the journey that he's been on
and to be out in Oklahoma now doing what he's doing is something special.
I'm stoked to have him.
I appreciate that, man. Yeah, it's been interesting, but I think it's all about just kind of following your passion and persevering.
But a lot of it for me too was just having a rebellious spirit and like telling, saying,
fuck you to the man, I'm gonna do what I want.
Because a lot of us, not even just myself included, I know dudes that have been doing this way longer than me
that aren't in the position that I'm in today.
And so I'm really grateful and if I can contribute and be a part of like bringing people into a place
where it's secure to do the thing that we love, I'm all about that.
And so I just think I'd like to be able to just share and stuff because I put a lot of work into it.
I don't know. I just, I don't know why. I spend a lot of time on it, I guess.
I don't know why I do, but I guess I just enjoy it.
I like to share, I like to let people know, hey, you know, like this is what you can do in organics.
Yeah, and I think that's something I really love about what you're doing because, you know,
so many people that get into the commercial side of things, they just go to Rockwell Blocks and Salt.
And you're one of the guys that's out there indoors under lights doing organics and proving you can hit three a light.
You can produce quality that's at the top of the game and you're making a name for yourself
and giving a lot of people that, you know, choose to go.
It's a little harder, I think, to run an indoor organic garden than it is a salt and Rockwell Block or a cocoa block garden.
You know, so definitely one of the things I really enjoy about following your feed.
Thanks, I appreciate it.
You know, I'm glad to be on, you know.
Oh, go ahead, go ahead.
Now, I was saying I've done indoors, I've done, you know, greenhouse outdoors, I've done hydroponics, soil, everything in between.
And, you know, my heart definitely lies in soil grown cannabis.
I can appreciate all forms of growing, different styles, but, you know, really seeing what you're doing, I appreciate it.
And just really am enjoying the journey with you.
You know, I did this, I've done the same too.
I did all types of different methods.
I grew for a long time, nine years, I did hydrocorn, you know, the two gallon ebb and flow buckets with a 50 gallon resin and brain.
I mean, I ran systems like that forever.
And then ran fertigation salts with soil.
I just, you know, it's for me, because the reason I think one of the main reasons that I share is because a lot of the information can be really hard to translate and kind of simplify in a way.
And not only just simplify, but show to like, this is how this is applicable.
Because a lot of the stuff that I read in scientific white papers, it's like, it's all good in lab settings and in like field agronomy.
But how does this translate over into systems where you're eliminating, you know, abiotic stress factors because you're controlling environment?
And then how does, you know, these systems function as a whole, you know, when you have everything that you need in the soil?
You know, and so it's trying to translate the information into actuality and functionality and do it at scale.
I don't think it's really too difficult.
It's just a matter of the methodology that you used to go about doing it.
I mean, it's less expensive, especially if you're using LED lighting.
You know, you're reusing your cycle, reusing your soil and recycling it and just using like single source mineral inputs and testing your soil.
It's not too difficult to do.
And then doing the biological program to just make sure that you're suppressing any type of pathogens and you're helping that nutrient cycle and all that.
It just it works really well and it's not really too complicated in functionality.
Like, you know, for me, I'm able to train the people that work at the facility and say, hey, this is what you guys got to do.
And they can go ahead and do it. I don't have to worry about it being done incorrectly because it's so basic, you know.
So, John, you want to I'm looking at.
So we did the GMO ancient OG, you want to do the Tenzin Kush.
Yeah, we'll do that Tenzin Kush by Ancient OG.
Tenzin, like I was saying, is that sour OG by 78 Appian.
This was my favorite pull out of there.
And really the few we know it's with this amount of like chemical nature.
I mean, when I first came on, really what it reminded me of is that smell when you like go into a hair salon, has that like kind of that perm shit's going on.
But has like kind of a super gluey kind of chem smell to it, too.
Very interesting. But of course, very.
I really like it a lot, even though it's got all those qualities that sound like you shouldn't.
Obviously, that's how we all are.
But so the one of the testers we did this, I really enjoyed a lot.
Ancient OG came through pretty heavily.
You know, Bodhi.
Are you still on here?
What's that?
OK, I something happened to my screen here.
Sorry, guys.
It just blanked out. I thought I got lost, but I can't say anything.
And gave me some alert alarm.
No worries. We got Chris Jennings and Sean Ferguson building out their libraries tonight.
But here comes Troy Smalley.
Nick P wants to donate to talk to Jackson.
Grofax Parker at 225.
See that I got five on it.
Doesn't the guy who sang that line in that song live in California?
Sean's at. Yeah, this is where we need the house people.
I was talking to Pat from Heroes of the Farm about playing some music.
So, Jackson, give everybody an old school Jamaican dub.
A good artist for everyone to check out.
Well, I think you're muted.
I think you're muted.
A good artist for everyone to check out.
Well, I think you're muted.
Wait a second.
You got to unmute yourself.
Man.
All right.
Now I get it.
I went and got a beer and muted myself.
I missed all the stuff I was saying.
The dude who's saying I got five on it.
He's my he's my buddy.
He lives down.
Oh, fuck. Yeah.
Mike, can we bring him on?
He wrote that music, too.
You think he's awake right now?
I'm sure he would.
He would come on.
He's probably taking a nap.
Not really, but I mean, he might be.
He goes to bed.
Sleeps at like two and two and nine, you know.
But I was saying that somebody who I really like that my Jamaican buddy told me about.
It's not a dub artist.
It's more of a more of kind of a soul artist is Pat Kelly.
Pat Kelly is super cool.
He's super cool.
Sings kind of like Curtis Mayfield.
Got it.
So everybody can imagine listening to Pat Kelly right now.
What are we at?
We're at.
I thought I just.
Yeah, Troy was at 275.
Yes, we do like our Peter Tosh.
Where's the bid?
The bid was and I just have the bid up.
Where is it raining for someone right now?
It's probably my fish tank, dude.
I got it.
I got it.
I got a Halloween carnival goldfish like four years ago.
My boy said he's either going to die in two days or you're going to have him for 20 years.
And I got this.
I got to my son has to two fish gunshot and taco.
It's like getting a turtle.
Water's running.
So you can mute me if you want.
And it's also kind of probably a buzz like a weird mic because of the filter.
I wondered if people could hear that.
Makes me have to go pee.
I won one of those little goldfish at the fair one time.
The thing went for like five years till it was like seven inches long.
So this is what's up right now.
Black roots.
Mad Professor.
Mad Professor.
R.O.I. Dub.
King Tubby.
Yeah, King Tubby.
If you want dub King Tubby, Mad Professor, Lee Scratch Perry, of course.
Check out the I posted it.
Check out the I am the I am the Gorgon.
I am the Gorgon, the Bunny Lee story on YouTube.
That's cool.
That talks about the history of King Tubby worked out of his studio.
All right, so we have Troy Smalley at.
Two seventy five.
Steel Pulse, Handsworth Revolution, that's my favorite Steel Pulse album.
That one's like that got the cool organic texture to it.
It's all sounds kind of like half acoustic.
That one's super bad.
Jacob Miller, Augustus Pablo.
Yeah, people know some shit on here.
Are people posting on the.
Yeah, I'm sorry.
So Troy.
Yeah, hold on.
Let me let me tell you where to donate.
And then Brandon, you want to.
This is like.
Watching a ping pong match back and forth between Brandon and John.
All right, so Troy, you are going.
Sorry, Brandon, you're muted.
Yeah, Yoda, Kush times MK Ultra, the Yoda Kush was another.
Was another type of like, oh, gee.
So this.
This is another one that I have going right now.
And it's.
Again, it's in line with all the other MK crosses that I'm looking that I'm running through right now.
But I don't have too much information on, you know, the flowering because I'm just starting these out.
Again, I'm doing these because I want to run a bunch of old.
You know, some of the older OG, some of the old Hindu varieties and some of the old flavors so I can get a.
You know, I want to hunt through those so I can see.
If I can pull anything special out of there.
OK, so what are we.
Is a Yoda Kush times MK Ultra.
Oh, right, right.
OK, hold on.
This is a.
I think they're all they're all the same.
I think they're all the.
Yeah, I think they're 10 or 12 packs.
You didn't see all these, did you?
I don't know if I did or not.
Yeah.
All right. Does that look what was it?
No three or was the.
Oh, it was the.
It was the.
It was the.
It was the.
No three or was the.
Yes, the all the MK Ultra crosses were from 0.3.
Yeah, it looks like 12 or 13 seeds.
Yeah.
All right. And Sean is already at Dave.
Is that 210?
Yeah, this is why we need like the high energy MC and that is generally definitely not me.
Or anybody in this conversation.
I smoke a lot.
Yes, it is a 210.
We got Eastern Server Eastern Server at 220.
All right. One of the other.
One of the other ones that's another MK Ultra cross that I'm have my eye on is.
Is the is the Sweet God crossed into MK Ultra.
They're looking.
Really nice so far.
I like the way the structure and the way that they're just so uniform.
I like the the leaf morphology on them.
There's a lot of good stuff with these MKs, whoever grabs them.
Troy, can you clarify your question?
You said Food Not Bombs dollar for peace?
Question mark.
And we have.
That's what we have up right now.
All right.
Oh, yeah, sorry, it's food.
Food. Yeah, it is food.
Yeah, it's Food Not Bombs.
And then you just click on that donate.
Yeah, sorry, a dollar for peace right below that, there's a yellow donate button like the universal PayPal donate button.
Not the automatic monthly donation, but right above that, there's a.
I could even take a picture of it.
All right, Easton's at 265.
G13.
When did you guys first see G13 come on the scene?
I've never seen it.
I've only when I first started, it was more like just kind of like a rumor, like, oh, there's this.
Thing, and I always had a notion that it came out of Missouri State.
Can this research that they program or something like that?
But I don't know what the real story is on that.
Government, I've still never seen it either, really.
I mean, I've seen things crossed with it supposedly and all that, but I it's not one of the ones that ever circulated up here.
People didn't really run it.
I ran it a couple of rounds, probably.
I don't know.
It's been a long, long time, but it didn't stick around for very long.
I think maybe just a couple rounds.
I had it in the garden.
Yeah, so that now I get.
Let me get rid of those, but it's that yellow donate button.
Right below the dollar sign.
And right now, so sorry, did we.
Use the server.
I used to serve.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Eastern server.
Eastern server.
All right.
And that was two sixty five.
Yeah.
All right, Easton the link is coming your way.
Boom.
And by the way, let this not stop anyone else from making a one dollar two dollar five dollar donation.
that you literally just punch in your amount and make a donation.
And so Food Not Bombs is basically global. They're all over the world.
And they've, I mean, Adam, you live in Santa Cruz. So like, I mean, they've been around for 40 years.
Oh, yeah, they're they're out on the corner on the daily doing their thing. Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, they've been doing work as long I've been here about, you know,
not quite 30 years, but they've been a staple as long as I can remember.
And yeah, since the fires, I mean, they've been set up, like he was saying,
downtown near the arena at the end of Pacific there. And, you know, it's they're down there
every day. I think he said they set up at noon and, you know, they got a parking lot full of people.
I think Ricky from Santa Cruz Cup was telling me they even had, you know, like a resident ban for
a minute because it was just, you know, it's popping all day long with the fires. I think
there's twice as many people or more lined up every day. So.
Yeah, I looked them up to see their kind of their bio just because I was curious.
The last time when we were on here with Bio Vortex and their their bio is pretty heavy,
like they're they they have some impact all around, you know, and there's different little
offshoots, you know, all over the place. It looks like they really.
Yeah. Yeah, worldwide. It was it was pretty awesome last time when Keith was on and kind
of broke down the history of, you know, his 40 years from the day it began and tell them the
stories and see how seeing how far they've grown and what they're doing all over the world, you
know, every day. Yeah. Yeah, I just took a screenshot of the map of like chapters around
the world and it's like it's like dots everywhere because there's so many chapters.
Yeah, they're feeding people, you know, it's cool.
What's Jake Dillard? Is Jake bidding on something? All right. So let's
John, you want to go back to you? Sure. You want to run one of those golden pineapples?
That you read my mind. Well, there we go. All right. So golden pineapple, gold 78, right?
Yeah. All right. Let's get that. We are a well oiled machine.
Almost pineapple cut. I got I think it was like 16 years ago or so. And Eugene,
I got it. It's pineapple, basically some glassblowers. I didn't gave it to a friend
because there's you know, they help them do some things, but they weren't too impressed with it
because we gave them back what it turned out as. They're pretty psyched, you know. But either way,
it was a pretty staple strain for us for a long time and high yielding. Very. I mean,
the smell was very, I mean, it's fruity, but it's very unique, you know, in that context of,
you know, humulin, ostomene kind of just, I don't know, just has this.
So it's basically Cindy 99 by White Widow.
Um. From Brother's Room, so that's that's what we've kind of found through all the testing,
whatever, what these what these point to is this ice princess.
What we thought it was for years because I got it as pineapple and I was looking at the
canon Bible and I saw this golden pineapple inscribed it and I was like it was that was
my golden skush, I think was what it said. But I was like, OK, golden pineapple, golden pineapple,
golden pineapple was just kind of in our in our circle is that I passed it around town and then
passed that got passed around, you know, the state. And then I brought it to Santa Cruz.
Well, first I brought it to kind of tested with
the Adison and Stiepe labs. I think it was like 11 years ago and
it tested, I think, like 24 percent THC or a little more. And at that time it only got close
to 20 and said it tested quite a few samples at the time, but they'd only they'd never seen
anything that high, you know. Either way, I was doing some stuff down in Santa Cruz and brought
it down there and let it out around there. But it's a really it was a really nice breeder.
Mother of the hazy kush. So either way, I was just trying to do something, create,
you know. Create a create a good, good range of what that offered to this little cross and
78 AFI blended well with it. It's really nice. I really like it a lot.
Just quickly, Jake Dillinger, can you confirm that that's a bid?
If so, you are currently on top. That is for Jake Dillinger.
Sorry, what's trains currently live? Boom.
It is a bid. All right. Thank you, Jake. So, Jake. No, I can't find your.
That's for the golden pineapple.
We have the very calming sounds of the fish tank.
It's meditative here. Yeah. We got the we got the banner back there behind Green Boaty and my fish
tank sounds and Cascadian grown, you know, with the iry beard and we got we got Adam over here
got we got Adam over here with the extra iry beard and you can't grow a beard.
Russ Brandon suspect of not being able to grow a beard. You never know if you don't grow when
people think you can't do it. You know, Green Boaty, he's probably can't grow beardies. I read
it. I can grow this and this and, you know, the paddy. Yeah, for sure. Me and you are in the same
boat. I got that. I got enough native blood, you know, we got that that stuff going on, you know,
right here never comes in. I got that. I got that Joe.
Yeah, same over here. It goes in all patchy. Yeah, you don't have one. You probably can't
grow one, you know, either up there. We don't know about him. I know I used to before I met my wife.
I had a big burly beard and she hates beards and stubble and my two year old won't let me
kiss her with stubble. So yeah, when you when you when you said did you meet her and you had a big
beard? I on our first date, I had stubble and I asked her if she likes beards or no beards and
she said no beards. And I thought that was like a loose recommendation. And
then I found out that it was it was kind of an order. And I was going to say, because if you
have the big beard and then you cut and then you cut the big beard and then they see you, you know,
they might it might be over, you know, because they don't really they didn't really know what's
going on. So that what? My threat was I was I was told if I lost the beard, I'd be a man.
That's that's that's she's a keeper. We should we should auction someone's beard.
Well, we only have two people right now who could auction that off.
Live shave.
So sorry, who?
Who won that one?
We've got a bid for 300 right now, but it was the last second.
So I don't know if anybody wants to play with it or it's over.
Okay, so Mr. Swerdy.
Mr. Swerdy, you ready to win?
All right. MR. I gotta remember how to write that name. MR.
SWRDY.
And so Jackson, I got a whole heap of deeds here.
One, I've got my eye on kind of been watching these guys play.
Joel.
I call foundation. Yeah, he grows some big he grows some big trees.
I gave him some cherry lime pop a couple of years ago. I think he put that in some stuff.
I don't know if that's that's the stuff. But I remember him telling me, oh, I got these 20
pounders and I was like, that sounds like a lot of weed. And then he showed me the coal is in the
bag and I was like, well, if your buds look like that and you got a bunch of weed, you're going to
be a man. And I was like, well, I'm going to be a man. And he was like, well, I'm going to be a man.
And he showed me the coal is in the bag and I was like, well, if your buds look like that and you
got the same the same plant that might grow, you know, eight pounds or something, if your buds are
that big, then, yeah, they're 20 pounders like he's he grows stuff. He grows big stuff, you know.
Yeah, I've admired their work for a while now. And yeah, I've been pretty stuck in what I've seen.
Got some platinum pie crosses here. I got a TKM 10 times platinum pie. I think it's a 25 pack.
Oh, wait, sorry. Hold that up. I think I have pictures of that.
Yeah, you got pictures in there somewhere.
All right. So, yeah, you don't need to hold it up. I'll just give me a second.
So, Adam and Cascadian, when was the last time both of you did not have a beard?
I was just asked to provide a headshot for a potential partnership investor work kind of
scenario. And, you know, I don't even know I'd have to go back. At least six or seven years since
it's even been like, you know, close to even a clean shave. I don't know. It's been a while.
I'm sorry.
I think the last photograph I have of a clean shave is like a driver's license from like
close to 20 years ago.
I wish I'd tell.
I've been a glass blower and a grower for over 20 years, so I really haven't had
to wake up and shave and be to work at nine o'clock.
I didn't know you blow glass.
Yeah, I was a glass blower for about 12 years and kind of doing the cultivation thing all along. And
yeah, still blow glass. I still got a studio and got all the tools. I actually bought a lathe
right before I built my greenhouse. Kind of didn't really get a chance to play on the
lathe a whole lot, but it's always there if I want to go back to it.
So just quickly, which Ital pack is up right now?
Well, we got a couple. I pulled up the TKM 10x Platinum Pi.
Okay, so let's start with that.
And it's a 25 pack, I believe. So you're definitely getting your value. There's
lots to hunt through.
All right, Joel.
Stepping up with the big packs, big packs of big trees.
Actually.
All right, so that's what we got going right now.
Yep.
And Cascading, I'm muting you because the audio sounds much quieter for some reason.
All right.
Tommy Tricomes. Oh, wow. There we go, Tommy.
Starting strong.
Let me.
And so who won the last one was? Oh, yeah. Mr. Mr. Swarty, you got the donation link.
You can send an email.
There.
And if you want to get extra precocious, you can even fill out this form.
Which is that?
Yeah, we still got Farmers Alley at 300.
And Brandon, I know it's not a lot, but I'm just going to say it.
300.
And Brandon, I know it's getting late where you're at. I know if you got a couple more packs,
you want to run through here before it gets a whole lot later. I know you're two hours ahead of us.
So if you want to get something queued up for maybe the next auction, if you got anything in mind.
I know people are looking forward. You might have a pack or two of the
the ones you guys dropped the other night that sold out and,
you know, before half of anybody could get them. So.
But let's also make sure we can fulfill all those orders.
For giving packs away.
What was I just going to? Oh, can any of you guys talk about Jackson? Someone asked about.
I mean, I can see if Joel can jump on.
Yeah, I tried to hoard him earlier this evening, but it was kind of last minute.
So I'm not even sure if he got the message.
OK.
What was the cross again?
It's a TKM 10 times platinum pie.
OK, I mean, the TK, the M10, that's old, like pure Afghani
that Mr. Bob had and put on the triangle.
And then platinum pie. Can't remember what that is, but it's I think that's like an in-house
super crystally kind of cookie thing. You could Google it. Probably.
I remember it being like one of those crazy, pretty ridiculous new school kind of cookie hype things.
But with the TKM 10, like I that was one of the ones all the stuff with the M10 and that I really
wanted to try because it's like old Afghani one, but like a really nice line of it.
And everything from that was the TKM 10 itself was like really killer, like a good, big, heavy
yielding KUSH plant. Yeah, I've had my eyes on that one for a minute. I've been trying to find
space to get that one in and have some fun with it.
Yeah, I mean, I think like something that's that sounds like something like something like the
platinum pie, that kind of stuff is like it'd be really killer if it was crossed with something
that was like a big, hardy strain. And that that TKM 10 is one of those really like big, long,
fat, but KUSH potent, consistent strains. So like to me, it's a super sensible thing. And
Joel, he grows big ass plants outside and everything has to kind of
perform. So I figure if he put it up, it's probably because he's trying to show out with it a little
bit. I don't think he wants to put in something that people are going, oh, this is this guy's
stuff. It's probably one of his nicer things, but that's just my take on it. If I saw it,
I mean, I would try it for sure.
And just quickly, the last one, I think it's the M10.
And just quickly, the last one, Mr. Swerdy was 300, right?
Yeah.
OK. And we got 25 seeds in this pack.
Here's somebody saying platinum pie is sour diesel cherry pie cross platinum jog.
So that sounds pretty gnarly. You know, I don't know if people know platinum jog is made by
I think his name is Mikey D. Alton Covelo. I met him. He made those seeds out on a pond
where he actually floated like a raft where the plant's roots could just barely touch to wick up
water. And he just put them out there and left them out there and let them breed and then came
back at the end of the season and cut down all the seed crop. It was like a super cool story.
The dude's totally nutty in a killer eccentric way. And he's the guy who bred the original jog
who and then he crossed it with the platinum Girl Scout cookies. And that's what platinum
jog was. And he passed those around Covelo and different people got their hands on that. And it's
the kind of weed that gets like just rock hard and covered in resin. You know, it's a lot.
It's like cookies, but more big and gnarly, like everything that cookies got going for it. It's got
even more of it because the jog who crossed with it just kind of beefed it up. And then with the
sour diesel cherry pie, it's pretty cool. I mean, those things you could expect maybe to have some
kind of instability in them as far as what I know from breeding. But you know, I'm not going to say
that's how they do. But I would I'd throw that out there that sour diesel and cherry pie a little bit
suspect when you got them in the mix. But I definitely know and what it is knowing that it's
that that doesn't sound like that's a that doesn't sound like that's an in-house one. I think I mixed
it up with something else. So it's more of like a local Mendo Covelo mashup, I think. Yeah,
I don't think you can go wrong with cherry and sour and. Somebody know what? Yeah, yeah,
that's well worth well worth the hunt, especially with twenty five. Like the best plan out of that
twenty five is probably some some real hitter, you know, quality and and just as far as you
know, the best plan out of that something to crop the hell out of for sure. Nice, how are you doing,
Brandon? I'm good. I'm about ready to go to bed. It's almost midnight out here. All right. So you
want to throw one last one up? No. Yeah. So let's do this, because. I actually went out and I counted
out all of the packs that I needed and I had had just a few left over and I just figured that since
there was so much demand for it, I think someone sent me a screenshot at eight oh six that said
that they were sold out. I don't know if that was true or not, but yeah, the Lama Rola.
Which is the black lime reserve times gorilla glue for and then I crossed it into
Jackson's lime one BX. And if you didn't hear the podcast last like what was a couple nights ago,
the limerilla is something that has consistently tested extremely high terpenes.
It doesn't typically get super high in THC, but I haven't tested anything thus far under I think
like three and a half percent terpenes, and it usually does between five and eight regularly.
Scott just did a three ten, but didn't someone.
You even grow bro had four hundred.
Well, these were steals on Saturday night, then.
Yeah, I offered them up at just a really inexpensive price so that people can get
them. I mean, I had a limited quantity. These are going to be a collector's item for sure.
There's not a lot of a maid and it's not getting remade either.
Shonald asked how many seeds in the pack.
A dozen. There's 12 seeds.
Oh, four. We got a four ten.
Holy shit. No wonder why the website crashed.
Yeah, it it definitely went out.
I've since updated. I've been updating it.
Yeah, the memory on the servers is now like triple what it was.
I have to update the back end of my Bokashi Earthworks website. We have to.
We want to get the best type of back end that we can, so that way it maximizes our logistics
and everything that we do through the Internet. It's just a learning process, growing pains.
So Farmers Alley just asked what's being auctioned as the lime lime.
Lime or Lime 1 DX.
Does that work?
I can't actually see anything because my phone, I think, froze.
Jackson, is that accurate?
Yeah, as far as I know, that's accurate right there.
Oh, we just lost Brandon.
But we're at 650 already.
Yes, fish whistle. You are definitely psyched.
I'm back.
Yeah, that that Lime 1 back cross, I put out those ones. That was a grape soda skunk on a Lime 1,
and then I put it back on a Lime 1 again. And they did pretty good for people.
And I had them, so I pretty much let out everything. So even if I wanted to put more
out, I don't even have them. I only have like a couple packs were in there. They were like,
it's just because there was some of the seeds were ugly, so I kept them.
And I put out the rest of them so I can make another Lime 1 back cross. But that was all
that I had of those. So there's not any more of that particular Lime 1 back cross. Like it's just
not, you know, like I don't even have it if I wanted to give it to somebody or anything. I
could probably grow like 30 or 25 plants of it or something, I think from like the wider
seeds that I had that weren't good enough for packs. And I just did it because I figured,
okay, well, I have grape and I have lime and I can remake it in different ways. But I put those
out and I gave those to him way before I put them out. Because he just asked to, you know, he had
the Lime-a-rilla and I was like, oh, you like the lime? Here's a three quarter lime instead of a
half lime just to check out. And he already had the half lime, black lime reserve and put that on
the Lime-a-rilla. And I saw what he had done with that. I was like, damn, those are pretty dank.
Here, try these. And so I gave him those and he made those and I dropped the rest of them after
they had been grown out by people to test. And so like there's not, you know, once these are gone
there, you know, he can't remake them. He didn't keep the male and I don't have that same exact
cross. You know how things are. It's like I can remake more lime stuff and there might be more,
but like at the moment those are kind of, that's like the last little piece of something that
someone could get. I don't even have any to toss in for the auction. But people will make some
stuff out of them too. And it's kind of the same, again, I didn't keep the male. I packaged up all
of the good seeds that I had and then I sent off some seeds to Jackson and then I kept,
you know, a small amount for myself. But everything got packed up and actually this cut,
I gave this cut out to a couple people out in California. So it's could still, the mother,
the number 31 lime orilla that I use in this cross, which was the, came out of the second
hunt. This was just a, it was a really nice yielder. It had really nice resin production
and the terpene profile was out of control. And that's the one I used. I, I since ran through a
bunch more of the F2s that I have and I found one that I liked even more than that one only because
it is, it grows a little bit shorter, which I like for the system that I'm running.
So I couldn't reproduce this even if I wanted to, not with either of the mom or the, or the father.
All right. Well, that was, that was a fun one. And that, that, that's, I mean, just knowing
what happened on Saturday, it was like a, like piranhas, like a feeding frenzy of
people picking up packs.
There was a lot of disappointed people that messaged me and I was just like,
yes, I, I, I got those same messages, some more angry than others.
That's what happens though. He stoked people out. Like they were really, really
affordable. So the people who got them are stoked and then they go super fast. He could have made
them real expensive and then people would have been mad that they were too expensive. And,
you know, it's hard unless you just have a million, but he did. So,
yep. Only had a little, only had a small quantity. Is that Eva? Radio Ridge Nursery?
Adam? Oh, it's probably either Ryan or Ava or probably both of them. Who knows?
It's Ryan. He said, yeah.
Nice. All right. Yeah. They've been a big help in this whole process over the last couple months of,
you know, trying to coordinate all these things and figure out the logistics of how to, how to
kind of make this all go off without a hitch. It's been an interesting ride. I didn't anticipate
that it would be so massive when it started. And then I was advised real early on that,
you know, running this all through my PayPal account probably wasn't the smartest thing to do.
So, trying to find out the logistics of how to handle or not handle the money in the end
has been a little bit tricky, but I think, you know, we're here now, we're making progress. So,
I'm excited to keep things rolling and really grateful for all the help that we've had along
the way. Everybody that's, you know, been a part of it and put in time and energy. Peter,
from the very beginning, has been great. And a whole group of people that's dedicated a lot of
time and all the breeders and all the artists and all the different people that have donated.
Jackson, Nick has a question that's probably on many people's minds.
With stuff, I don't know. I got a lot of stuff in testing and going into testing.
I got a lot of new stuff. There's a little bit of stuff that
people still have that they'll probably wind up putting out that they've been holding back until
they didn't have anything. So, if you keep an eye out, people might wind up having old things of
mine that they've already had and just not put out. But somebody with a Lime Pop Kush skyblock,
be ready. Some of those go like 11 weeks or something. They can. Longest go 12. Shortest go
10. But they get big and they get big, nice long colas on them and the smoke is really killing.
But yeah, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
But yeah, I don't know. I only do so much. There might be some stuff coming out
that people made with my stuff that's just a one-off. And if that happens, I'll go ahead and
promote them because if people used my stuff and they're cool, then I like to see people get it.
Doesn't have to come from me, as long as I know their stuff is good and they're not
total assholes, basically. So, Runtz Cross Gelato 33 Cherry Limeade. Well, you're growing them,
I think, right? Or was that somebody different? That was someone else.
Dave's Not Here got the Coca-Cola Animal. I don't know. The Runtz
Gelato 33 Cherry Limeade. You want to do? Let's put up 30 of those right now.
All right. So, what are we putting up? It's Runtz Cross Gelato 33 Cherry Limeade Male.
The Cherry Limeade was a F5. I put on the Gelato 33. Those came out really nice.
And then I took that and put that on a Runtz cut that was like a real verified. A lot of the cuts
that people just have running around are exactly the same. I tried a couple different ones, but the
one that I have sitting right here was from a cut that was definitely that same original one.
All right. So, this is a Runtz Cross with Gelato 33 Cherry Limeade. The Gelato 33 Cherry Limeade
is dank. It's like a Cherry Limeade with a little bit more weight to it. And there's a couple that
are a little bit less loud than the Cherry Limeade because of the gelato, because the gelato is more
fruit loopy. And the Cherry Limeade is really, really stinky, just pungent fruit.
I don't know. Kind of hard to describe, but kind of like really loud starburst candy.
People say like kind of almost poopy, just gnarly, gnarly, stinky, super tasty weed,
tons of terpenes in that. And then with the gelato, it makes it a little bit more
like a little more dense and a little more heavy. And the plants actually grow a lot faster.
And then I put that on the Runtz and those right now are just starting to get grown out. So, I
haven't actually seen them, but I personally really liked the Runtz plant. I know how
everything is. People are like, oh, cookies, gelato, Runtz, bullshit, bullshit, bullshit.
But I liked it. I thought it was a really nice plant. Me and my buddies smoked it.
We thought it was tasty herb. It got us high. And the plant was really, really pretty. It buds
really solid. It was easy to trim. It turned really dark in the middle of the summer. It
smells like somewhere in between gelato and Skittles. So, if you like that kind of weed,
it's good. And then the gelato cherry limeade is a lot gnarlier than something like the gelato in
the first place. The cherry limeade is like a really, really... To me, it's like the stoniest,
stinkiest perps. If you go perps like Urkel, Grandaddy, Purple Nepal, Purple Dragon, Blue
Dragon, Grape Ape, all that kind of shit. Cherry limeade is better to me than all of that kind of
stuff. It's more in your face, more impact. It's more sleepy. I like the high on the Urkel better
because it's a little more up. If I have a low tolerance or I haven't smoked it for a while,
it makes me more giggly. The cherry limeade is kind of more like, oh, it just hits you. It has
two or three percent myrcene in it. So, it's really, really gnarly. But like I said, I haven't
grown these. The gelato 33 cherry limeade has been grown out. The male that I used on that was
an F1 male. So, there's still some variation. But the cherry limeade I put on the gelato was F5. So,
there's not a lot of variation on that side. And I'd imagine indoors, these might be unstable. But
in a 30-pack, I'll bet you get a couple of nice cuts. The gelato 33 cherry limeade actually turned
out to be pretty stable indoors. The only people who grew them indoors didn't have any issues.
And then the Runts, I haven't bred with it yet. And it could be totally unstable. But I'd imagine
in a 30-pack, you should still get something good. And if you're an outdoor grower, these will hit
for sure. Super nice. So, Greg McAllister. Hey, dude. Pretty much made my Christmas from 1989 all
the way through till I grew up, dude. Pretty much changed my entire life. Made the cherry limeade
based on the black lime. The black lime is based on two different lines of northern lights.
It's awesome, dude. We love you, man. What a trip.
That was...
Cheers.
Cheers, dude.
So, we are... Yes. Greg's retired and happily living in Hawaii.
Yeah, well, he doesn't have to do nothing now. He's like the Dave Chappelle of weed at this point.
He can say whatever the fuck he wants.
Yeah, he was on Saturday Night Live this weekend, right?
Uh, yeah. Chappelle. They should have had a great...
All right. So, Chris Jennings at 1800.
And Greg, if you want to donate anything for a good cause.
Greg, also, if you want some cool seeds that have northern lights in them and stuff that do good
in Hawaii, you can send me a message. I actually messaged you on Facebook.
My name's Jackson. And you can shoot me a message, dude, and I'll get you a bunch of
stuff to try over there. It does... Everything I have does really good over in Hawaii.
Might need a little supplemental light if you start it at the wrong time. But if you do it
long season, you'll probably get some cool stuff. I'd love to give you some stuff, dude.
And we have a little family tree of seeds in the house. All right. So, who won that one?
That was Chris Jennings, right?
Yeah, that was Chris Jennings at 1800.
Cool.
Okay. Let's...
All right. So, Chris Jennings, here's the...
As you have previously, hopefully, donated.
I'll give you like 100 of them, Chris.
What? Damn. It's one from 30 to 100.
That's what's up. He's stoked.
And then an email.
Hey, it's getting late over here in Oklahoma. So, I'm gonna gracefully bow out. I appreciate
you guys all having me. And I would be more than happy to come back and see if I can find
some more cool stuff for you guys to auction off for this great cause.
All right, Brandon. We appreciate it. And I'll check in with you in the morning.
All right. Sounds good. Have a good night, everybody.
Right on. Thanks, Brandon.
Let's see if...
Have a good one, Brandon.
If Tyler wants to jump on with us.
John, you want to run with something?
I think one of the other big chunks of seed that I donated to Adam was OG Kush by
Sour Best Shit Ever 78. So, it's basically a bunch of OG Kush
which seems like Sour Best Shit Ever is a classic. Buddy Bam gave it to me years back. And
it's my favorite rendition of OG style. I like it a lot. Anyway, so that's why it's kind of...
I've used it in a lot of things. It's been my go-to OG kind of style, night time thing for
since I got it really from him. I really like it. But either way, so yeah, that OG by the
Sour Best Shit Ever by the 78 which Bam also filled me in saying it was a bunch of OG Kush
basically. So, it's a little bit of purple haze in there. So, it's really nice. What we've seen
out of it has been really psyched on.
Is this one of the things that Adam had? I see the OG Kush cross with the SBSE 78.
Is this something different?
No, that's that one.
Okay. All right. Then I can just copy paste.
SBSE is one of the very, very best Kush cuts you could want to have. I grew it side by side
with the old Hollywood pure Kush, the Topanga old verified 2004, 2005 cut that I have.
And it's chunkier. It's really similar as far as how kind of like the
type of resin and the chunk, but it's a little bit more chunky. It's a little bit finicky. It's
one of those classic, it's a real OG, really have to know how to grow it and give it a lot of
silica so it's not totally snacky. Mine just like almost exploded in the wind and left the top of
the plant like a palm tree, but the weed on it was so good. And it like for something for a Kush,
that's the shit. And then I think it turned out, like he said, Bamboo said that that 78 that was
put out by Aficionado at one point, it turned out that that was really like an SBSE,
had something else in it. But that's kind of cool because in a sense, it's like it's not a direct
back cross, but it means that there's more than half SBSE. And that SBSE is one of those like,
like it's undeniable how good it is. It's really, really good. It's like a really good,
like OG headband type, gnarly Kush. And it, it likes to get big, chunky, thick buds if you grow
it right. And, and the smoke is just like, there's not a lot of stuff that is, is gnarlier than that
stuff, for sure. I agree. I was really psyched when Bamboo finally told me what he,
you know, he said he was kind of, you know, just keeping it to himself. But,
because I was getting all these purple hints through all, all everything. And I'm like,
man, where's this purple coming through, you know? But then we CBD too. Yeah, for sure.
That's a, there's a lot of trace CBD and even not so trace. That's why I put it with the ACDC too,
because I just wanted to spice that up a little bit with that bigger and that little blend. But
the, the purples that are coming through and I was like, man, this stuff's trippy, you know?
And then Bam told me that and I was like, ah, okay, cool. Sourbash, Roji Kush,
purple haze, F5, I think is what he said. But that made a lot of sense then because that,
that purple haze, the terpene profile of that, I was, I was, I was catching that in there. And
once it kind of clued in, it was, it made sense. So really that, the, the pollen that I got from
Drew, it really, it was really consistent. And that, that genetic profile, I think,
is really interesting. That kind of fuel EOG with that purple haze kind of, it just offers a unique
blend that really carried itself through everything too. So I was really psyched on the
SPSC 78 crosses that I did. So some of them had some really, I don't know, pink hues in the
trichomes. It was really, it was really cool. Kurt's got some really good photos of them and
some really neat, I think actually in this last, in this weed maps book that they did, they
used one of those SPSC 78 leaf shots because it had all these really cool pink, you know,
fade on it. It was really nice. Two quick questions. One, how many seeds in the pack?
Yeah. All right. Someone asked, someone guessed that. And then did you send me a photo of this
or no? I'm not sure if Kurt sent you a photo of this. I don't know. I think I might've asked him
for the golden pineapple, golden 78. I think, I think I might've asked him for this, but
I'm not sure if he got it. Yeah. I see the Tenzen Kush. And then I see an image that
it doesn't say what it is. I can actually just throw it up and give me one second.
Actually, I'll just do both of them. The eye candy. And what are we at?
See what the bid's at right now. 320 from Fish Whistle. So sorry, we have, that was one of them.
Do you know what that is? Oh, I think that's the, that's the Tenzen Ancient Cross. Okay.
And then this, I think that's the same actually. Okay. Okay. So we had, I saw a 350.
We got a late bid at 360. I'm going to see if it goes anywhere.
All right. So Mr. Swerdy is a two-time winner. Oh, no, we got, are you doing 50? All right. We
got the 15 second countdown. Yeah. No. So yeah, he took that one then. All right. Mr. Swerdy.
And what was that fourth? 350? 360. 360. And oh my God, look who just joined us.
Rocking and rolling. It's the man in the yellow hat not wearing his yellow hat. It's too cold
outside right now. I don't know where the fuck I live, man. It's supposed to be Southern California,
but it's like Arctic. It's crazy. All right. So just quickly, Mr. Swerdy,
you can make your donation here and then shoot an email.
And John, you've been inspiring people to microdose.
And then sorry, it's donate at.
Go ahead. Go ahead.
Strong style organic. Yeah, we're in Southern California. It's not that cold. Actually,
it's pretty crazy. It's like a fall New England day right now.
Yeah, I was looking my temps right here is
51 degrees and dropping. So it'll be 48. And that's cold as shit for me, man.
So just quickly to everybody who's won something, if you can just shoot an email
to that email address, it would be enormously helpful to keep in touch with you.
And so, Tyler, do you want to put something up for a good cause?
Dude, I always got stuff. All right. Good cause, you know, I actually have
some we. Well, yeah, and I was going to say the new stuff, even if people have to wait for a
couple of weeks, I think that'd be cool. I mean, with the caveat that you're not going to get a
I mean, I don't know what the channels say or not, but I have some stuff. I have some
bacon grease pandemic at one straight. The two they're coming out later this year that
they're going to test and they're going to be pretty, pretty big. Awesome. I kind of
I went crazy this year and I just crossed them together. So I'm going to be doing a
couple of things. I'm going to be doing a couple of things. I'm going to be doing a
I kind of I went crazy this year and I just crossed them together. So I'm I'm testing those.
We just popped out a bunch of those and I just started giving out some testers of the pandemic
pandemic mail was a resume that came out of the of the sort. And I hit it's almost everything that
I had in the stable. And I've been passing out testers with all the dog love purchases
and a couple other places people have been getting some weird bacon grease or
pandemic crosses and stuff. But I actually have the people are asking for the bacon,
the bacon, the bacon. I have I can put up the cross of the bacon grease and the pandemic
or I can put up, you know, the bacon, a pack of the bacon grease.
Um, it won't be a lot. It'll be it'll be a straight 10 pack and it will be,
you know, you might have to wait a little bit. Yeah, Jackson Jackson flex with 100 pack.
I can part I can part right now I'll put up either a 20 pack, 20 pack of make it 25
bacon grease pandemic cross. So bacon grease cross to pandemic.
Or I'll put up a 10 pack of pure bacon grease F2. But you got to wait for packaging and,
you know, stuff like that.
While you want to just start with a Would you like to do both?
Sure, sure. All right. You can do both.
So you want to start with the the bacon grease pandemic cross?
Yeah. And tell me if if I do it justice for that.
That's perfect. All right. And that pandemic, like I said, it was a resin stud.
Not the greasiest resin stud I've ever seen in my life. But definitely a resin stud nonetheless.
A very, very cool.
Tight stacking on the structure, but but tall and lanky, kind of like Pam's. So it has this.
I'm thinking it's going to pass killer yield and killer bud structure. The pandemics were
excellent bud structure plants. They're one of my favorite of the year. Looking in the jar,
they have killer density. It's like perfect commercial, beautiful playable buds. Pandemic
is across the triangle cush and the chem 91, the Gator bait that CSI Humboldt made. And then I hit
that to my selected Pam F2 stud a while back and they've been coming out awesome. So it's you got
you got gas in there. You've got earth in there. You've got the yield in there because you've got
that kind of that that sativa stretch to her. But like I said, the stacking is the node stacking is
pretty, pretty close together compared to the the Pam's and the other stuff. It's it's pretty
killer. Like I said, I'm running through seeds are gigantic. They're like pears. Awesome,
awesome quality seeds. 100 percent germ rates on them. You know, in all the tests so far,
they're they're killer. They're strong and ready to roll. I'm really excited about them. They're
one of the first things that I dust off and threw in the dirt as soon as they came ready. So like I
said, that's a that's the new stuff that I've been sending out to everybody. So anybody wants to get
the new things that nobody has, that's that's the cross. The bacon grease that I chose is
the ones you see in the pictures on Instagram. If you go to my page, that's like seriously spears.
I'm the most the most awesome stacking spears you've seen, you know, awesome structure,
heavy, heavy, heavy, heavy, heavy yielder compared to all the other bacon greases in the sort.
It yielded twice as much and it was prettier and, you know, they had had almost every single thing
going for it. I want a little more gas into there. That's why I threw that pandemic into it
to try to really, really gasify it because it has that that it's got that Pam 15
funk with the dosey dose floralness, you know, that kind of that dosey dose spice and floral
kind of cushiness, but not really not really the it wasn't cush dominant with the
bacon grease that was selected. It was it was really Pam 15 floral and funky. It was it was
amazing but yield and structure and prettiness smoke ability. It's an awesome it's an awesome
plant. So that got hit with the resin stud. There you go. You know recipe for goodness. I think that
there wasn't any I didn't have any issues like intersex traits on the pandemic side.
And in the first generation cross that I did I had inner intersex traits when we were when we
were playing with the original Gator Bay. So I don't know if that's going to come out on the
other side or if I really, you know, I really did well in my selection. I'm pretty sure that
that I'm you know, we did pretty well so far in all the other pandemics and everything that we
selected through but that was that chem 91 was reversed and was put on that triangle on that
chem 91, you know, it's a chem 91. So that's the one thing you got to worry about. You got that
chem resin, you got a little dosey dough in there, you got some Pam 15, you got some triangle cush,
you know, I think that 500 bucks right there is looking good to help some folks, you know. So
I'm excited about it. You know, I've still got that male and I still got that bacon grease
female so it can be made it can be made in bulk. If it's if it's a winner we can play with it but
you know we'll find out whoever whoever gets this sucker they're they're on my radar. You know we'll
need some pictures and we'll need some info and all that stuff so we'll be on the same page popping
stuff. And we're still at five so people were asking about your
in store I guess Instagram is the best place to find you. Yeah you get there it'll take you to
um you know it'll take you to my YouTube there's a Etsy it's got email all that stuff just just go
right there. All right and we are currently bidding on that.
And both the Pamdemic and the bacon grease by themselves will be coming out towards the end
of the year as soon as we finish up on this. And we'll be right back we'll be right back here on
YouTube talking about it. You'll be even more bundled up. I know no kidding.
Did you grow up in SoCal? Yeah I grew up here for the most part I was here I moved here when I was
11 or 12 and I'm 37 so now so I've been here most of my life but I'm from Arizona
originally so. Okay but I'll also yeah I was gonna say also warm.
I didn't see the snow until I was like 25.
All right so that was Blood Rain. And if you got questions or problems uh Blood Rain you know just
reach out to me or reach out to me regardless uh send me a message so we got some info and I'll
I'll get you sorted out you know get your shirt sized and stuff we'll get you hooked up.
Okay so Blood Rain make your donation
at the FoodNotBomb's website and then also
send an email to donate at dagged.love I think he's gonna be quite happy.
Yeah everything you gave me stunk and uh yeah I had it all planned out.
Yeah man. I had it in the garage and my wife my wife was like complaining about how much it smelled.
This weed stinks. Yeah I was like I know it's a don't you love that?
That's how I got my wife you know we we're she didn't pay attention to me she was my neighbor
for a long time and then like she walked past me on the side of the road and she's like do you
smell that skunk? And I'm like no that's my pocket and she's like oh and I within the next
day she was at my house you know and then you know fast forward there we go you know.
So you lured the ladies with stinky weed.
So uh Blood Rain music that that is your future.
You can say ladies please one at a time. Absolutely absolutely it's never a bad
problem. Hey everyone I just got to bow out here I uh got a flight 4am. All right.
And I really uh you're a trooper. It's an honor to help and an honor to be with all you guys so
really appreciate it and thanks so much for the opportunity. Well thank you and hopefully we'll
see you uh you'll be like a two-time Saturday Night Live host.
I'm down thanks so much. Pleasure thank you. All right see you John. Take care of yourself.
Oh John your Instagram just quickly uh I can throw it up what is it? Green Bodhi.
B-O-D-H-I right? That's the one. Okay so it'd be at greenbodhi.
Can actually fix that give me one second and then John can bow out.
Carol there we go that's where you can find John.
Check it out a couple good photos Kurt Ice always providing the good eye candy.
All right well memes every once in a while.
Well thank you for helping. Thank you thank you have a good night. All right.
Jason Roberts is very angry uh
but Bodhi and Green Bodhi are friendly and friends with each other and they do not
dislike each other so who'd we just lost uh Adam. All right so Tyler what was the next uh
what was the next one? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
We just lost uh Adam. All right so Tyler what was the next uh?
We'll do I'll throw up uh you know so if they're willing to wait a little bit just contact me we'll
we'll throw up one of the bacon grease they'll get the first they'll get the first release of
the F2. I'll throw up a 10 pack of that. All right so that's bacon yeah grease F2.
Yeah we got them I'm just I'm running through them I'm making sure everything's working out
perfectly and uh like I said they're on track for the end of the year looking good I just want
to make sure packages good on this and I get everything perfect and good to do so you know.
So so basically this could be someone's early Christmas present to themselves
arriving around Christmas time. That's right yeah absolutely it'll it'll probably they'll be
they'll have it long before Christmas time because like I said I already have it it's just that you
know I just we're finishing up all the the final details with them so um they'll get them well
before everybody else does and I'm trying to have them on track for right around Christmas time so.
All right so I can't so these are for this is for this right Scallywag is already he's on it
that's good all right someone asked what is what is bacon grease? I don't do pre-release
funky stuff and and you know I don't let go on anybody anything so this you know I'm glad we can
help and I and we have an opportunity right now to help some folks so um it's it's something that
you know should be done so. And you see you see that you see that question? Bacon grease is my
PAM 15 keeper um PAM 15 came out of the the F2 population uh she's she's killer you can see
pictures on her on my Instagram she's she's really really close to the original um like a lot of like
land race type traits to her um very tall very sativa very funny uh pyramid spear bud structure
to her um smells like uh you know kind of like something funky. Hold that up again. Oh yeah.
I'm down in Healdsburg. We got those guys all the time lately that's that's funny that's cool.
Carry on. Okay I was just holding it up someone asked. Nice nice uh so yeah so PAM 15 um killer
old school sativa haze type you know um you know plant and structure it's crazy stretcher one of
the craziest stretching plants most obnoxious crazy stretching plants you you've seen but it's
always it's always well worth it. Uh she puts on early glitz um you know about uh about week three
all of her families and stuff are really starting to you know get these really really tall crazy
resin plants throwing off her really early early she's smelling like a I always say it's kind of
like this funky like old school smoke shop where there's like incense burning and guys with BO and
just weird scents from you know tobaccos it's just kind of a funky a funky musty um very unique
uh plant it's one of those things you smell you're like whoa funky and you have to come back and
smell it a couple times because it's just it's it's like you don't know what the fuck you're
smelling you know um very cool plant heavy resin heavy heavy resin uh tall little I mean every type
of resin gland you can you could name is on this type is on this plant um it's it's very visual
very colorful just like PAM purples blacks um you know there's some pink swirls in there uh she's
got the purple stem trade so at bloom set uh she'll be you know fairly green leaf I mean green
stem throughout the whole process veg process so I have some purple petiole some stains on her
petioles and stuff like that but at bloom set her her stalks turn purple um so it's pretty cool black
stem purple dark dark purple stem very very pretty uh she's crossed to a do-si-do resin stud so I
went through uh some do-si-do 18 f2s from archive and um went through a grip a grip of these and uh
found a cool little resin stud um he had this cush type uh leaf structure I always always I call it
the cush leaf structure where all the the leaflets are kind of faced forward and frontal there's no
like side you know little hanging you know bottom hangers or anything like that there's just like
kind of this cush leaf structure and it's very upright and and you know cylindrical um like the
og cushes and stuff like that kind of very cool uh I bred that to the pam 15 and that's what created
those crazy donkey spears uh from hell um it added added the resin added a little bit of uh
like a modern bud bud structure uh from that do-si-do cookie and og cush and all those things
like that uh changed kind of the bud morphology on the pan 15 kind of she's very airy and a great
washer because she's very uh open and airy a lot of surface area all over her bud space and um
breeding her with the the do-si-do uh brought it down to the the modern bud structure but it still
kept the crazy spears and compared to everybody else when we put all the clones into into flower
all the bacon greases like their stretch was double what everybody else's was it was it was
like it was funny as fuck you walk in the room you're like oh there's bacon greases they like
they stood out like crazy because of of how powerful how strong um how wild they grew and
then the yield followed right behind there so um i've been super excited about they sparkled uh it
got the name from i used a lot of mosquito nets and stuff um hoop houses and things like that to
kind of create a little single and funny little chambers for different plants and groups and when
i was pushing buds and plants around the the nugs hit up against the side of the mosquito netting
and just smeared the shit out of the side of there and it's like damn this shit's greasy
ass shit and i spent a little time thinking about i'm like we're gonna call it the bacon grease you
know so um that's stuck people love that and um you know it's one of the things that i'm smoking
right now which is cool uh i'm reaching for the jar so that's a win for sure turps are on point
sending out to a couple people a couple different phenos of it where you know we're playing around
with it but the one i used is that crazy spear pheno there in all the pictures that one was the
one that kind of captured more heart from the first so um picked out that bacon grease and then
earlier way earlier this season we were doing a i was doing a store on the f1s and i grew out a
whole bunch of plants put them all outside this season and uh from day one even the young you
know the young veg as soon as they started setting some leaf sets this one was really fucking stinky
and it was really pretty and it had really stacked stature and it really didn't stretch
like the other bacon greases but but smelled like a motherfucker it was one of the one of the most
smelly plants in the garden and it turned out to be a male uh i did some clones and forced it in
the flower it was it's a male i'm like holy cow so um i started immediately uh working with it
bringing with it and getting getting stuff going it was stinky as shit and i had just perfect
structure so that's how the bacon grease app too came about that you know we we had some other
clones and made a bunch of little seed and did some test runs and and that's where we're at today
so i'm finishing them up pictures are coming out we got some you know packaging coming on and it's
it's looking i mean they're fucking awesome um still keeping the spears looking really sharp
you're getting a little bit of variability on stench but morphology is pretty pretty similar to
the to the pam she dominates a lot of that stuff so it's very very kind of tall and uh
stretchy but bitch in his helmet greasy beautiful
now we gotta take a breath i was gonna say you you brought the most energy tonight i like it
dude i've been negotiating with terrorists man we finally got the kids to sleep
get some weed i get to catch up with y'all about 20 minutes i'll be i'll be slowed down
you bring it from fifth down to first gear fast
but anybody who wins anybody's got questions man reach reach out to me you know get on the radar
we'll get your shirt size we'll you know we'll i'll kind of tell you what to expect and we'll
get we'll get you shit you know hooked up and you know you got a friend for life you know for sure
doing charity that's good good for both of us just looking through the comments uh
so anyone want to uh i so uh christian from finest was on a plane but said he was gonna jump on
uh and then um i just asked kaya if he wants to jump on but uh what what what's that
i just said ross kaya ross kaya see we can get him come on here and be jamaican
uh yeah because he just posted something about it uh what is that 1009 it's 10
40 i don't know if he's already if he has since gone to bed but uh jamaicans are up till like 10 a.m
um well what what uh we could go in many directions what do we want to put up i kind
of want to wait for christian if we want to do something with uh
let me text him but um we need to bring on the happy hippie bio vortex he's he can sell seeds
should we uh jackson you want to see if uh if he wants to jump on shoot him shoot him a message
tell him we're on my phone died i can't see messages i got it all right i mean it'd probably
be char it charges quick it'll probably be charged in a couple minutes but for now i'm just i got it
out on the charger
i'm in my kid's room hiding from the rest of the house right now you know
i think we all know that hell yeah he should be asleep but he don't go to sleep
early and then he gets up for zoom school and he's all cranky and you know
same thing man i know all about it yeah
yeah it's like hours each day days each week weeks each month of fucking zoom school for like
i mean my daughter's she just turned six and i just like i just feel bad yeah
and every time i go in to check on her she's like bouncing off the walls playing with like
her lol dolls and i have to like get mad and i'm like i don't really care that you're playing with
your lol dolls but i have to act like i care that's what's funny about kids you know like
they say something and you're like that's hilarious but i have to act like it's very
inappropriate like that's actually really good material but you know you're too young to be
saying that stuff so wrong time otherwise i feel bad all right so yellow yellow hammer genetics
just asked greg mcallister what's your favorite trait of the northern lights mine was resin
just resin production resin production i mean the northern lights we had like you could break up a
joint and you could have like five people sitting there and you could smoke a joint
and after you were done everybody could take melter fucking keep bong hits off of that same
joint from what was sitting on the table and that was the shit and to this day i still when i breathe
stuff that i'm trying to get um like when i breed og and i'm trying to get what's the og dominant
stuff i look for what looks like northern lights to me and it works really good and i'm convinced
to this day and i've talked to i've talked to uh not so dog and mr bob hemp hill and a few other
people who know a lot of old stuff and everybody kind of agrees like yeah probably the the indica's
the afghanis that are in northern lights are probably in og and they're probably in chem
and hindu kush master kush is actually new names for northern lights two or northern lights one
and though and all that new stuff is likely to be that stuff and that's why when you see somebody
like like greg you gotta you gotta give him give him his flowers while he's here because
he's possibly the most influential person in cannabis and nobody knows his name and um of
course you know that stuff came from afghanistan and whoever made it over there they deserve their
credit too and i wish i knew who they were because they they deserve a lot too but we know for sure
that greg mcallister he's this guy and people look at they go oh the old old school stuff nothing
ever not you know but what people don't realize about the old school stuff and the new school
stuff is there's only a few breedings in between and traits don't just arise out of nothing just
because they're in some grow room for three or four years wherever the hell they're at in la or
sf or whatever those things those traits they exist from way way back and somebody found them
and locked them down and the person who spread those around and made that available to the whole
world that was greg mcallister um and the people who he worked with and i know a lot of them have
a lot of a lot of influence in that too but he you know here he is he's the guy who we can track
down and go okay he can tell you we took we took that afghani and we crossed it with this and we
did that and we gave it to neville and gave it to these guys and those guys and the northern lights
i had came from neville and it was chronic and it didn't it didn't have the loudest terps it was
like really like pine sap when you made the hash from it and it would it would be like piney but
not piney in the sense of anything that you think of being piney the weed itself smelled grown
outdoor was like a hint of like juicy fruit gum like jackfruit and then when you burn the resin
from it it was like pine tar and it was almost like like if you would if you would like scrape
like a tray we used to trim in these aluminum trays like you bake in and uh me and my buddy
back in the day when i lived in healdsburg and we grew that northern lights that my that my mom
popped in 89 that came from amsterdam it didn't come from seattle because we didn't have that you
know and i would have loved to have that but we had whatever came back from neville and we we had
that and and and trimmed that into these trays and after you dump everything out of the trays there
would be all this straight full melt stuck to the tray and you could scrape it off with your finger
or whatever and then you smoke it and when you would smoke it it would be like it would be like
toxic like you were smoking the fucking sap off of a fucking ponderosa pine you would be like oh and
people would be wheezy like and i had like hardcore stoner buddies who like had friends
who were hardcore smugglers from from from from from mexico and shit and they'd sit on the couch
and i remember we smoked it out i brought it back after trimming a bunch of it up and it was like
crippling you know like the potency of this shit and you could take a bud of the northern lights
we had and put it in a bomb and put the lighter so that it's just like right above it and you're
not quite hitting it you're just heating it up and you could watch the resin beat up like straight up
fucking six star full melt on top of the weed before you'd ever took it off the weed and that's
the only thing that um that i ever saw do that and that was that was that stuff you know and um
you know with that that went to this dude back in the day named ian and he back crossed to it
hell of times with his oil can and then that made what we called purple orange green and or or pog or
nl oil can and i crossed that with this other shit made the black lime and the black lime
turns out that the other side of it that i crossed with the with the purple orange green was
um turned out to be northern lights afghani burmese so it had it coming from all sides and
it was just like my favorite shit the best shit that i ever had and like i said i'm convinced
it's in the og it's in the sour it's in the chem and um i you know i have no evidence of that other
than just looking at stuff and being able to go i don't know it seems like that same afghani that
was in all of those um traveled around and mixed in and um so anyway like i can't like i can't say
enough like you know like it's it's it's uh it's a life-changing thing to get a little bit of a
different genetic that has something that really that you really like like that that totally changes
everything about your whole existence if you're somebody who who whose existence revolves around
uh producing weed you know so um you know the opportunity to to know that greg's watching this
right now i'm like dude thank you you know that's like it's like a huge thing so you gotta so greg
what will you come on with us for a couple because i've asked greg a couple times and and i respect
the fact that he's he's uh happily retired in uh hawaii and he's like i'm good but uh if you would
come on either now or at some point uh basically while jackson was talking about northern lights
uh about 10 different people uh expressed how much they would love to hear from you
and uh
yeah my old uh my old childhood favorite strain was was p91 in san diego the old socal p91
and you know i've i've heard all kinds of stories this way that and the other about how it was uh
it was these genetics and this genetic and all this other stuff um i also heard at one point
that it was a cute northern lights so uh when we were kids we actually were connected to the
family that had you know some of that p91 we got some some of the seeds from his sister somehow
and um we ended up growing some outside his bedroom window when we were kids and they were
the shortest squadius you know nl looking things you know that i had ever seen and i didn't know
what nl was so fast forward i'm looking for p91 i can't find it i'm trying to figure out what
it is you know i heard it was this i heard it was that uh so i i get a hold of as much northern
white stuff as i can um from as many different places that i can i start going through it
and there are those most of them were those short squadies um nasties some of the some of the best
weed i've ever smoked um and it quite possibly could be you know uh you know a phenotype of
of the nl but i've still never chased down the the real thing and never found that that that
right complexity but i got i got real involved with nls one of my favorite you know one of my
favorite things to play with one of my favorite things about it was how short and squatty some
of them squaddies were and you can you can stack them and pack them you know um and i used to love
doing that you know so that was uh you know that's my story looking looking through northern lights
hell yeah and jackson you have a fan club
it's very strange
the uh the stuff that you see though that's like squat like that that you see like bubba kush
and all that that's that's um that's that's nl based you know me and not so talked about it and
and and not so dog is one of those dudes who really knows those old things like what went
from here to amsterdam what it became and follows the the little changes and all that and um
and uh you know he he says you know that like what what is the hit what's called the hindu kush that
that i had here that we had um and that my buddy justin kept for a long time um that was
the same as what is like bubba and what is master kush and similar to what is la confidential and
a lot of these old things and it's like those things those are coming from that that um that
northern lights which is coming from that as far as i know like that steve murphy afghani and um
those old things and that's you know and then and then just greg just came on and he said that's the
stuff that makes you mellow and the sativas didn't do that and it's it's like it's true that's that
warm that warm stuff like people like and it turns out too when i did stuff like with the hindu and
some of the old afghani um even mixed with the og here that was stuff that like people hit me up who
had epilepsy and they were like dude i've had seizures every week for years and then i got my
hands on that like what i call red hindu kush which was big red pure kush um hindu kush or pure
kush hindu kush big red is how it really should be listed and that that like stopped um people from
having seizures just smoking a little bit of that and that's just like that's crazy but that's that
mellowing calming bringing you down kind of thing that um he's talking about that's really good for
ptsd and all that stuff and like you know he's talking about people who are um you know those
people are heroes and they deserve to have the the best treatment that is possibly available and the
things that work for them is that kind of stuff and he's a dude who circulated that and years later
without him knowing that is curing epilepsy for people and changing their lives and um and it's
not you know like it's not because i made something it's because he kept something and uh
you know that's like that's that's crazy shit like it's it's it's it's all kind of just a little
novelty like oh it does this or it does that or it's cool you read the list of the effects and
shit but somebody who really really um somebody who has seizures all the time and all of a sudden
they don't have seizures that's fucking crazy and that's owed to the people who like him and
the people who he got stuff from and like i said the people in afghanistan who bred that and they
kept it and if people don't keep that shit then it just it just disappears and it doesn't exist at
all and um you know i can't i can't uh i can't overstate the importance of dudes like him like
like me i'm much later there's a lot of people who kept stuff like that you could probably it'd
probably be fine to have la confidential or or bubba or all this other stuff would probably have
the same effect of the shit i made but the reason we have that is because of these one or two or
four people in the 80s when stuff was so much more locked down and those those people are uh
they're they're uh they're treasures and they're not people don't even people don't even understand
what they did you know so evan yo yo yo do you want to put something up for a good cause yeah
yeah absolutely i'd absolutely love to um the question is what do i choose
um i think honestly i think we should do the some of the exit to stuff it's like pure afghani
and pakistan genetics that haven't been hybridized i don't know if they just started so
remember or have heard of exit too i don't want to say where he's out of he's kind of asked to
keep all that but he's a he's a cat that's been preserving afghan and pakistan genetics
from the pre-soviet invasion from the late 80s and he sells his stuff online he has a website
where you can order his gear i heard of it originally from bode he put a post out on
instagram a couple years back that's how i heard of him um so fast forward to the the seeds that
i'm talking about is uh i basically i bought a pack of each of his seeds in 2018 i grew them out
and i open pollinated um seed increased the whole pack with everything that i got i think it was like
three different girls and i think two different males out of each pack because i bought a six
pack of each seeds and um you know with his permission i reached out to him and i was like
hey why don't we just try to um get rid of these seeds here because you have such a difficult time
getting them out here because he's international and um he's like yeah absolutely i'd love to do
that he gets a portion of everything i sell but i'm sure he'd be happy for me to put him out
on this fundraiser for the fire relief so i've got his entire catalog the jalalabad star
tital precious and pakistan treasure so what do you want to start with why don't we do the
jalalabad star all right it's um it's an afghani like a true afghan uh it's super like it's as
close to modern cannabis as you're gonna get without the modern hybrids involved it's got a
lot of those dank funk notes that you're gonna look for in these modern hybrids like dositos
or cookies and stuff like that but it doesn't have any of that lineage in it um i grew like i said i
grew six different plants and i got three different girls that i did outdoors here in santa rosa
and they finished around mid-october um they did start to throw some bananas in the very end but
you know nothing that made seeds it didn't throw pollen or anything like that uh kind of popped out
right like at the end where it's not really a problem um but consistent expression between the
three different girls um pretty much the same size same blood structure same nose
wasn't much of a difference between the three um i want to kind of pull up some of his website
because he has these uh descriptions of each strain that are really well written um is there
any way we could pull up his yeah so well what's the website so let me google it real quick
because it's it's a weird website it's like big cartel dot yeah it's it's exit you uh on
big cartel.com yeah okay here it is so it's uh ex situ dot big cartel spelled normally dot com
yeah
so i could actually give me one second
um little copy and paste
yeah no i can uh i'm just gonna do a screen share all right hold on
all right hold on yeah i know a guy who grew the star and he said that it was like uh lemon lario
g basically the ones that he had was really like really hung in there like like you said with uh
with the modern stuff and then um you'll see he says it uh it uh it's the stinkiest he's like
you need a carbon filter for this if you're not if you're in somewhere where you're not supposed
to grow you'd like it it's stinky by the way just quickly what do you guys are you guys seeing the
exit to website or yeah we can see it and just for people who know so you look at these prices
and you see okay 115 dollars 17 regular seeds like yeah you you can get that but keep in mind
that this guy is in a country that is very far away and to get things from him it has to go
through customs and you have to give your actual full legal uh name on it to be able to receive
these and so um you know it's it's a cool hookup to be able to get these from somebody who
is just going to give them to you from the u.s because otherwise you know i i was in the process
of getting seeds from them and funny enough at about twice i i went broke getting um stuff i
needed for my own thing to keep going and i and i had to cancel my orders from them um but i was
right on the edge of pulling the trigger and it was like yeah okay you're you're you're getting
seeds internationally and you have to put your legal full name on it and no alias no so and so
whoever gets them got a sign for them so the fact that dude is auctioning them off right now to me
it would be worthwhile to get them from him instead of trying to get these from this other
um you know far off land but uh just just a heads up you know like it's a cool
cool thing to be able to score these
what oh wait i'm back and evan's back thank you thank you jackson for uh filling everybody in on
the situation with these because that was on point nailed it yeah it's a little hairy
yeah so um he doesn't want to like disclose where he's located but basically what jackson said it's
you know it's a whole rigmarole to get them it doesn't come in priority mail it takes weeks
if you're lucky especially with covid it could take longer um and what you're getting from me
is the pure genetics straight from him reproduced without discretion um took everything and put it
back together so small population of seeds that i started with but they're pure inbred lines so
you know six seeds should do the trick for what we're looking for uh so
what that was the parent stock that i started with i'm auctioning off packs of 15 15 seeds
15 seed would be coming in the uh any pack that you get from the exit to collection
so cascading are we are we uh
are we going with farmer's alley or or easton can easton can you can you at least bump up the
snipe to 210 instead of the one and five dollar increments i've actually i've got some uh leftover
nugs from last season a little grab from the the basement here i'll be right back all right
we'll be here yeah so the back story on these is the dude had a brother who was um there's a lot
of stories you hear that honestly probably influence this this story probably influences
a lot of other stories you hear about how people get these crazy afghanis and shit the dude had uh
the dude had a brother who served in the military and went into these areas and collected seeds in
the late 80s and these are the ones he these are the ones that he uh the ones that he selected
um and then pulled him out and brought him back and the guy's been keeping them
um keeping them pure since and he only has three things and he's had the same three things since
like 1988 or something so when somebody has stuff like that you can figure it's it's pretty good and
uh the only reason why i'm saying these are hella cool is because they're like you know they're
they're um they're things that when i saw like bode put up a post and he was like hey i'm helping
out my buddy and then he put him up and then he said you know check out this guy and then as far
as i remember he was like took it down pretty soon because he didn't want to um i didn't want
it all to be too um commonplace i'm pretty sure you know stuff that he wanted to do stuff with too
um but yeah i don't know somebody said i love mean gene but that wait what i'm too buzzed on
the live have i gone too rogan or what i didn't see that it's uh back to the the ex-situ guy i
was just having an email conversation with him last night and he was explaining why he can't
advertise as much as he'd like to um basically where he where he lives is he doesn't have access
to smartphones and uh they're very rare uh expensive and he can only use his desktop so he
can't really use instagram to the effectiveness that we do here in the states so um you might
see him asking to like sign up for these uh um certain websites that allow you to look at pictures
he's posting they're totally legit um they're from him it's just a way for him to safely
communicate with everybody all right well we have a winning bidder which is easton are we going with
easton cascadian right that's the high yeah yeah surprise ranch you'd have to beat the 225
uh because easton was there first
so we'll give uh surprise ranch 10 seconds to decide
to look in the piggy bank
take the kids christmas money do they really need those lol dolls
i don't think so ah there we go all right surprise ranch all right
10 seconds for uh and i'm totally blanking on who who is bidding against surprise ranch
oh easton easton do you have 240 in you
240 in you it's it's the sniping uh yeah easton thought the timer was up but people are allowed
to snipe all right so five four three easton i'm talking to you two one surprise ranch
it is yours okay
winner winner chicken dinner for 230 uh all right so surprise ranch give me one second
and what was that for 230
and what it what was the purple thumb og uh the bacon grease what was that at
that was uh 310 310 okay so surprise ranch you can go to the food not bombs website
which is right here thank you dave look at that everybody remembers
uh yeah surprise ranch
surprise ranch quiet and then wane
um all right anyone want it well so
oh there's uh there's adam who left us for a while back uh so surprise ranch there yeah i
posted you can click on in the chat on that link and then uh send an email
um to that and then yeah dave who did not win the bacon grease
but is excited for the person who did win the bacon grease um dave is solid we'll take care of
yes people agree with your comment dave um so anyone wanna who want so what i was gonna
i was gonna yeah christian i kind of want to hold off until like he'll come on
and then i texted uh jesse and kaya
actually let me but why don't we uh evan do you want to do one more yeah let's do the uh
the next uh if you want to continue with the exit do stuff all right so what was this one
the second offering on his website it's called kytrol precious i don't know if you can see this
in the video but you can look how dense these nugs are i'm squeezing the shit out of this
not collapsing so this great building blocks for breeding and as far as the smell it's like a
like a coffee chocolate kind of earthy it's almost like haze to be honest but it does not
grow like a haze it's squat and there's wide leafed and it is fucking like the the the tightest
buds um in the garden kind of something kind of subject to a mold in uh in this kind of climate
you know because where they're you know grown there's it's so dry and hot
but it still finishes in like mid-october here in sonoma county and um not to not too much mold to
the point where you can't harvest it but you know you just got to keep your eye on it it's it's
susceptible to it and uh i haven't tried making hash out of it but he claims it's a hash cultivar
that's been preserved over the years i guess it comes from a the region of control or kytrol i'm
not sure how you pronounce it in afghanistan i don't know um i kind of tuned out before
because i accidentally switched over to his website i don't know if you saw the descriptions
he was posting but he's got a few uh let me give me one second i got a lot of a lot of windows open
it cures real good i mean this this bud here that i'm holding is just about a year old now
and um it it still tastes great you know it's not that old crappy weed taste it's
got like an incense thing going on almost like
weird it's almost like menthol in the end you wouldn't really expect that smelling it
yeah it says it is a compact powerful plant with wide fingered leaves and a sweet aroma when
blooming kytrol precious has a very pleasant pleasant scent aroma of both caramel and fancy
bread product made of kytrol precious has a delicious taste and a savory bouquet of smoke
this afghani specie has quiet action it's right i love the uh yeah his english gets a little yeah
it's right it's it's it's right choice to get rest in the evening with help of it an old world
ci afghanist afghanica that came out of afghanistan with soviet army in 1989
so some some soviet troops snuck it out like american troops snuck stuff out of vietnam
yeah and he's been reproducing the seed since then in his indoor gardens it's not old seed
that i bought they they were fresh they all germinated they were very healthy vigorous seeds
and the seeds that you're getting now are going to be very healthy vigorous seeds
we kind of covered it last night on the show but i'm an all organic gardener outdoors and i let my
seeded plants go until they're pretty much crispy on the vine so there's no premature seeds
and we have easton sarver setting the table
at 210
oh you even grow bro he does now if he didn't before and suavito dadan
the thought that kaitro is pakistani oh maybe it is i i could be mistaken um maybe he's mistaken
yeah it's pakistan pakistan so then yeah i guess someone should correct him because he's uh
he's saying it's afghanistan had me thinking it was afghanistan i didn't even corroborate him
only difference between pakistan and afghanistan's line it's like a difference between
california and oregon you know right right it's a mountain range right yeah so it's all the same
political line man the the east the east facing and the west facing side of the range
yeah the mountain the weave the weave doesn't respect to these borders so i think actually
he said afghanica in his description didn't he yeah yeah so that's actually you know it's
something a little bit different you know he's not referring to the region he's referring to
the genotype of the cannabis yeah it's a subspecies so it's accurate yeah yeah yeah
take that back homie sorry if he's listening if he's watching
from where he has no cell phone or internet connection
i know that yeah because i mean he's got a website put together and he can email me right
yeah okay so who did we have a winner on that is there any color to those are they all green
are there any colors to those colors to the buds so yeah to the plant to the to the buds to any of
the people it was a very green red hair no perps no no nothing yeah gotcha no perps no it was just
eaves didn't have much of a fade at all just kind of yellow at the end
um can't really see it in the video right now but there's lots of just hairs covered
all over there and that's how it grew just everywhere you know very fertile
too these things dropped so many seeds it was ridiculous
but same deal with this one on the you know it kind of threw out some bananas in the end but
nothing that um made pollen you know they weren't fertile
yeah late bananas just kind of tell you when something's getting
close to overdone yeah yeah and that was like mid-october out here in sonoma county when i saw
it so yeah just it's just saying hey cut me there you go you heard it tired
all right so you even grow bro there's the website to go make your
uh
240 donation and uh and then just uh
shoot an email so we can keep track of it all so anyone wanna should we
uh maybe adam thoughts anything you want to get out there tonight specifically
oh no nothing tonight i mean we got plenty of time to get to all kinds of stuff it's getting
late for me too i got my landlord's coming over first thing in the morning tomorrow so
i should probably call it if you guys want to keep rolling along and you got stuff you want
to throw out there by all means have fun any uh all right well we'll let adam go uh bit yeah i
mean basically like with the finest stuff i thought it'd be cool to have christian come on so he'll
uh i know he was flying but uh we're gonna table him so next time we can run one or two of theirs
we got we got enough that when he comes on i mean he could fill the whole night running stuff so
let's go ahead and throw one out all right you want to uh pick one yeah i'll just reach in and
grab you want femmes or you want regs uh let the people speak uh well we've done all the eggs so
far tonight right yeah why don't we just yeah let's throw we'll put it here i don't know
we got a gmo times lava cake frankencakes 10 pack all right let me
oh wait here give me one sec whoa yeah this is a a night of blurry pictures
um
so those are fem seeds adam yeah yeah pack of fems
okay so let me queue this up gmo times lava cake yeah hold on interesting mashup
there we go and hippie spinach is already in at 150
strong style organics likes its hash potential
steph curry back to hippie spinach so speaking of steph yeah i got a whole box of stuff if we want
to pull some more stuff out i mean i could keep going for a little while
how do we think the dubs are going to be this coming season with a healthy lineup
somebody tried to tell me yesterday they were going to get the guy from the box so what do you
think peter uh that would be epic although if i were him i'd probably just go straight to la
i mean you got what steph draymond clay a tradable andrew wiggins
but my celtics next year i'm very excited anyone from boston still awake
and watching real party animals
by the way you're fit i have to pee badly and your fish tank is not helping right now
dude you should just go man all right all right i'll be back feeding the fish tank like five
minutes ago
all right so i'm gonna undo that in case uh oh dave dave's on the east coast uh mr muckface
mr muckface cascadian you want to just keep us updated with the uh the numbers and the clock and
all that all right i'll be back you guys carry on yeah there's only about 30 seconds left on this
one all right everyone jump on the tables and start dancing teacher's gone cascadian you guys
gonna stay on here for a few minutes are you shutting it down or what i'm just trying to
tough it out man all right i heard it goes all year i hitchhiked here with a backpack full of
fresh socks and ass wipe i heard it goes till august and i'm just here for the party but i
don't know you know i i gotta turn on a heater in a greenhouse so i was either gonna turn it on and
duck out or turn it on and come back and put up some more stuff or i don't know i don't know
how many how many people we got watching right now i don't have a count or anything i'm just on
my phone so i can see all the messages 239 people watching right now and we're just wrapping this one
up at somewhere around 200 this is the biggest party i've been to for like six months you know
so you're right i feel like i have a life again we got lindsey jones we got another one of the
we got another one of the ital foundation an nl5 times that platinum pie we can run that next also
at 25 back that's the nl5 who it's uh ital foundation nl5 times platinum pie 25 back
i forgot that i ate asparagus for dinner
who it's a shocker on scares you don't know if you're all right or not
yeah so jackson people want the midnight garden tour
midnight garden tour i have no garden really right now i mean i have like some
just some basic ass plants and veg and a half frost fried greenhouse that i need to turn on a
heater before it hits 25 out here tonight but i just asked if i if you guys are going to be on for
a while i'm going to go click on some shit and come back and put something up or if it's only
for a couple minutes then i'll just hang out for a minute one so people are asking for more of your
gear and uh i got a couple things would people hang on for i gotta probably take me 10 minutes
to go fire up a heater but i have katsu baba cross animal west um the animal west f3
grapey smelling mail which was really unusual in there and i haven't grown them but they seem neat
katsu should make for some pretty cool stuff i have animal cookies clone cross with the animal
west f3 that same great mail that was like the only one out of like you know 20 mails that smelled
like it was grapey i've never seen that before really um i have animal clone cross animal cross
animal cross cherry west cross sour strawberry that's like the really crazy super frosty beautiful
um one with kind of loud loud cookies smell super dark um and then i have some um i have some of the
grape lime which is lime one cross grape soda skunk but the clone that i kept the first one i
ever kept crossed back with the mail that i pulled out of it that was kind of its twin so um
that's like a back cross to that f1 plant and i would do some of those but um i do have to turn on
a heater because probably right now it's 11 20 it's probably already about yeah you want to go
do that and come back and then we'll throw something up you guys are still on i just
yeah yeah make sure that there was something that was still going on yeah yeah i'll wait around for
all right i came to party as long as uh as long as i'm not gonna get cancelled out here for
fucking drinking three beers you know i'm matching you beer for beer cool man all right we'll go
ahead and yeah go ahead and uh run something and then um oh wait did we lose uh when did we lose
tyler was that like 30 minutes ago or like two minutes ago all right jack he was talking
about peeing in the fish tank all right you go do your thing and come back all right i'll be i'll
be right back it'll take me a couple minutes and cascading is this countdown on uh what we had up
before i went to the bathroom the uh this is the next one oh all right so who won that one
hang on just a second here lindsey jones won that one all right let me find you lindsey jones
and then what's currently up nl5 cross the platinum pie and who put that up
adam oh wait all right adam hold on mute everything yeah he's back
yeah we're gonna do that nl5 times platinum pie from ital foundation i think you got some
pics of that one oh all right well let give me one all right so keep keep the count going uh
all right let me well i think i just have pictures of the packaging right
yeah the the writing of the the names is on the inside it's kind of hard to get at so
25 pack huge trees really good structure big yielders i think jackson said the platinum pie
was some sort of a cherry pie sour diesel cross so can't go wrong here i mean if you check these
guys out if you follow them at all they do incredible work yeah sorry frozen trees which uh
sorry this was the nl okay yeah yeah there we go all right let me
give me one second you want to get something queued up for when this one wraps up i know
you got some more stuff probably pull out uh me yeah yeah oh yeah i got some stuff that i would
love to get out okay so this is what's currently up and while i'm catching up who who is the person
who won um
lindsey l-i-n-s-e-y jones all right l-i-n-s-e-y and that was for how much 210
and that was the frankencakes the feminized right yeah yeah a lot of cake cross yeah
a lot of cake cross yeah all right so lindsey jones if you are still listening
uh the website to go make your donation
ah they just did lindsey you are just way ahead of me
yeah evan you want to play uh you want to play a song
uh yeah as our musical i'm already coming along sorry if i'm getting in the way of the discussion
um and then lindsey send an email to
that email address whoa
and then uh all right so we're currently on oh yeah the nl all right so let me get back to the
current one which is ital foundation joel
joel grows big plants and what are we at right now for this this one's at 210
and it's a 25 pack too so oh shit yeah 210's a insane deal somebody's gonna be
that's like 105 per pack that's two packs man that's another way of saying two packs
that's double pack bro
all right so evan i want to hear a full or at least a partial song
um
well i can play just uh something that's in my head i'm not gonna be able to play something
that's on the radio that's fine let me step out for a minute here and go get something to eat
all right
do
all right the bids are rolling in just like that
ha ha so we have i i'm gonna call it for john at 210 the ital that that's i mean that's that's
great man yeah no that that's uh i'm sorry yellow all right so no no no sorry yellow hammer genetics
came in at 220 coming in hot with the missile okay i think that's that's one of my massachusetts boys
i've seen him on ig before
and i said yes let's get the guy that you mentioned who uh can go old school we'll bring
him on yellow hammer can do the interviewing i forget who he said it was but all right so yellow
hammer are you ready to to win oh shit sorry never mind the bomber from backfield
so cascading a lot of action while you took your dinner break
what'd i miss gone from 210 to 250
oh yeah shots have been fired
and chris christoph i forget uh
where can you post uh where you live
i can't remember if it's uh like montreal or all right so we got 10 seconds
jg murdoch at 250 for a 25 pack that's basically 120 now we're at 125 a pack of ital foundation
all right so if you don't want us to see uh
all right so we're calling it um
okay so jg murdoch
j
and that was at 250
for the ital and that's a 25 pack right 25 pack of the northern lights five times the power
and that's a 25 pack right 25 pack of the northern lights five times the platinum pie
that's the steal of a deal right there all right so jg murdoch
you're gonna make your donation
evan you want to roll one more out and then we'll get back to uh
yeah um why don't we do you guys want to do something that's like
super dank or you want to keep like the land race thing going i've got so many choices
um why don't we do maybe do a little combo do a little combo do you want to beat me something
so why don't we do something um that is a i slapped two breeders that have done a lot of work
and they they they made two great lines and are preserved two great lines and
and i put them together so one is from rider 77 88 it's a girl scout cookie form cut girl scout
cookie cross to mendo breath f3 that was the mom and i crossed it to a uh airborne g13
crossed to northern lights two crossed to northern lights five so it's like a super northern lights
heavy father that was the male in the cross so to repeat clearly it's a form cut girl scout cookie
mendo breath f3 cross to airborne g13 northern lights two by five
super dank um it's just like everything you want in a uh really dank indica nose big dense
resinous buds um the northern lights will finish sooner than the girl scout cookie will
but um you can definitely you know take it down mid-october in northern california
wait so i'm uh is yellow hammer genetics 260 bid for this or was that from the last one
i'm not sure i just started the timer so i figured it'll say something if they're serious
okay all right so what am i putting uh sorry i wasn't really uh
so what what is what are we putting up right now the girl scout cookie form cut girl scout cookie
cross to mendo breath and that cross is taken to f3
and that is crossed to a airborne g13 cross the northern lights two
by northern lights five okay give me the cliff note uh title uh cookie breath cross
airborne g13 northern lights i would just cookie breath cross no because cookie breath is the cross
it's it's girl scout cookie cross to mendo breath so i've come up with cookie breath for short
but i want to give these other breeders a credit for it because um i really didn't work those lines
and i kind of just took them and i bought the seeds from them and i i bred them together
uh does that loosely summarize what we're talking no no no no no i typed it out
all right thank you let me let me i could write it out too um
wait where'd you uh where i started the timer oh yeah yeah yeah yeah okay
okay yeah yes how about that does that work that's beautiful my god whoever wrote that is a
brilliant man it's not somebody's paying attention okay so so the the mom came from rider 77 88
and the dad came from mr bob hemphill
so these are you know ain't no chumps here these are just got a little more interesting
these are well-worked genetics these these carry serious weight in the community
this is like math where like the brackets matter if you want to make the girl scout
cookie more specific it's forum cut girl scout cookie and a lot of greg mccallister influence and
and to be more and to be more specific the g13 it should be airborne g13 which means it's g13
northern lights right can anyone else back me up on that jackson dude i'm not sure but i know that
it's i know it's it's fire i know it puts on resin that g13 and i also know that it's not like
uh i always kind of thought like g13 like it was like kind of a terpenelein thing but i know that
airborne is is not really no no terpenelein in that i grew out five girls from that um and none of them
had terpenelein whatsoever did you get purple ones in there yeah they started to go purple if i let
them go closer to november so like the lowers got purple because i cut them a little too early for
him but uh yeah they did yeah i remember seeing some of the some of the g13 from somebody and i
think honestly i'm pretty sure i saw it from mr bob and hannah bolt and it was just so bomb and i
was like oh what's up with this i was kind of drooling over it here like you know it's one of
those ones like they had got from somebody who they weren't supposed to share it you know and
yeah no they they gave me the seeds and um he gave me you know the nod to go ahead and release him so
i'm not kind of like going behind his back on this one but yeah once you mix it up it's all good he
has not released the seeds yet um for whatever reason i don't know but he was cool with me doing
it so i guess he's confident they're they're cool to be to be set out there everything he's got i
always if he says it's bomb i always know it's pretty bomb because he has like i have his clone
list and it's pretty insane you know it's like he's got a good taste man many things that are
that are pretty renowned you know yeah yeah super cool stuff anything anything he's willing to share
something worth growing for the average for anybody not even the average grower for anybody
yeah it's real for anybody gave me a sensi star this year and i i um i hit a sensi star with my
jarro and i was i was stoked to be able to make a little bit of that to try out and give some back
because like his all this stuff is he gave me he showed me a little butt of the of the off of that
cut and it was just like damn okay that's fire it was different than the one i had back in the day
that was more like lemon burnt rubber his is more like almost kind of like cushy you know what it
reminded me of it reminded me of uh that like weird smell that your compost or garbage can will
get if it's been sitting a little too long yeah um you know that i call it garbage turps but i
don't know a better more elegant way to put it yeah that's kind of like what i get from like the
md or like my my northern lights oil can it's like hot garbage you know and those these those
turps lasted they persisted for 10 12 months in a jar trimmed bud that had been sitting in a jar
that was not burped you know it was kept in a cellar where it was nice and consistent and cool
but fucking 10 months 12 months later it smelled exactly like it did when it went into that jar
that's the shit hey jackson you got something ready for us uh yeah let's see so i got one i'd
like to do these haven't been grown out yet but the stuff that's in it is all like really old
um been around stuff it's just a new mashup and i just i just saw it here in my pile and
it's different than the stuff i talked about earlier but i i think it would be a cool thing
to kind of start getting out a little bit and i have um you know i'll do i could do like uh
i'll do these let's say like another 40 of them and what this is is what i call special indica
which was was um uh big blue which was this really neat thing which was kind of like a
um a deep chunk like when i grew a lot of the when i grew a lot of the deep chunk which like
we call monkey balls here i had um i had like a i had one that popped out that i was like damn that
one right there that looks like big blue and i had another one that popped out that i was like damn
that looks like big red and when i kind of found out like the history of the stuff like people
don't really know because it's you know like it's all kind of like just hippie lore but there's a
dude named preston who passed away years ago here and he was just kind of like a party animal and
um he used to just hang around buzzed up and you know people just thought like oh it's dude
preston whatever but turns out the dude preston was the dude who brought what is called deep
chunk now up to spy rock back in the day as a pure afghani and um we call it monkey balls up there
and um i got this stuff called big blue and big red through a guy who got it from this dude
up on the hill and um he got his seeds originally i don't know where but
preston's son was really tight with this dude and so it was weird when i grew a lot of the
a lot of the monkey balls out i got a plant that was just like big blue and a plant that was just
like big red and it made me think that maybe this guy took the original preston stuff and
bred it apart i have to ask him to see but the the fact of it is when you look at it they were
all really kind of in that same ballpark except this dude was known for like i wound up with his
seeds because um the people i got him from went to this dude and they were like hey do you have
anything that'll get a pound in the shade and they were just joking because back in the day
if you grew in the shade and you were getting like four ounces five ounces you were smashing
pretty good you know and um he was like oh here take this and he gave him big blue and big red
and so i wound up getting those seeds from them and i grew them and i took uh i took big red and
i crossed it with hindu and i took big blue and i crossed it with black afi after i did that i took
big blue cross black afi and i crossed it with big red cross hindu cross pk or pk cross hindu
cross big red really the proper way um that's what i call um big blue black afi cross og cutler and
then i started calling it special indica because it was like my favorite um of the broadleafs and
of course like you know like not to get into the whole indica you know nomenclature and shit but
it's you know it's a broadleaf and it's a mashup of like my favorite broadleaf so i call it special
indica so out of those when i bred those and have toot them i had the number four was the one that
was like the big blue black afi throw which was to me what was kind of the special stuff out of
those and i kept one that had the most of the big blue and black afi which is kind of like a
earth coffee skunk not to say like this is skunk bud but that's kind of you know it had that kind
of a thing to it and then i also took that and i crossed it with the ghost og and the thing about
that cross was that when you grow the special indica they like to get mold but when you grow
the cross with the ghost in it the ghost kind of takes the moldiness out of it but it's still just
as chunky and and the thing about the big blue was it had this kind of um like fun psychedelic high
that you don't expect from a super broadleaf with like rock hard buds and these are the kind of buds
like you swear when they're wet you might be able to throw them through a window you know like you
can't it'd probably bounce off the window and be hella loud but like years ago i posted a a video
of me taking a monkey balls bud uh monkey balls crossfire og gray balls of fire and smashing it
on the table and it's like sounds like you're knocking wood on wood like the shit is rock hard
and that's how like the the big blue or the special indica or the ghost cross special and
so these seeds are special indica for um f2 number one clone which i keep crossed with the ghost
cross special indica for male which was the one that was the least sweet out of the big
population i popped that had the most like of that kind of earth coffee old school indica
gnarly gnarly shit and so um anyway that's a long ass story people are gonna try to kick me
off of here for telling too much stories and talking about good weed and shit but
um that is what these are and i'll put 40 of them up so basically what they are is like a really
chunky big pretty gany like what kind of lends itself to being what is pretty in like a gelato
or cookies or something like that um but it's not sweet in most cases and you'll get some that are
sweet that are kind of like smell like like squirt soda and that's like the the big red um hindu side
but some of them are more like that deep earthy funk like if you saw weed in the 80s when indica
first kind of was around it's that old indica out of 40 you'll definitely get a few girls like that
and so um let's put up 40 of those and run with it and this is the kind of shit that if you cross
with an og or a sour or a headband or anything in that ballpark it'll make it really beefy and big
and and be hella cool um i love this shit and i might release it later so you know what i mean
like if i release it later you know i don't want i don't want people to feel like oh i've been on it
big now and then i put it out um but if you get it now you'll get it first and you'll be guaranteed
to get it before it sells out and um you know it's 40 seeds so uh that's let's do that one right now
and sorry for the the long talk but um that's you know it's what it is now p p p people like the
stories
the male was a ghost og cross with special indica the male is ghost og cross special indica and the
female is special indica and so the yeah it was like a clone i kept and then i popped
uh i popped i basically the the the male bread with the ghost is the brother of
the mother of this cross so in a way in population sense it's a bat cross but it's not a direct bat
cross in individual sense you know if that makes sense yeah yeah yeah
that sounds like a killer project i just i'm over here drooling i have to run this but oh my goodness
it's neat the ones that are really cool are really cool if we had the money we would spend it on this
oh i'd be so in i mean i'll probably like i'll probably spread it around and stuff a little bit
but it's not it's gonna be you know it's gonna be a while before any of that happens and when they go
they'll probably go really quick because i don't make a lot of of anything because i make too many
different fucking things so i'm nuts you know right right yeah this is a special one for sure
yeah it's cool it's really cool to me like for me it was kind of like the
it kind of sums up the the indica stuff that i got early out that was really special like the
first time i saw big blue was probably like 94 and me and my buddy um og foundation farms on
instagram we went through the pounds that was back when people used to mix all the different plants
in pounds and we dug into the pounds and we pulled out a bunch of the big blue and traded in some of
my northern lights from it because we because i had a lot of the northern lights and it was like
my first garden that i had where i had like my own weed and we could like okay well let's take
some of this and trade it in for this before these sell because it was um it was just so special and
it was that kind of perp where like you roll the joint and you lick the joint and you you wrap it
over and the purple bleeds out into the paper and i mean that might not i mean now people have
seen a lot of purple weed but back then it was like holy shit it bled into the paper and it was
that like ammonia like what we called like it was like this coastal funk mycelial ammonia kush uh
bubba like really really neat and i you know we just really loved it and that's what the big blue
was and then the big blue i i knew this lady who used to sell weed to the people who produced like
sopranos and i think there was like rome and like some different shit back then for those tv
things in hollywood and she used to like have the best weed all the time and sell all the best weed
and she took it and smoked that shit down in hollywood and she goes i fucking laughed on the
floor for three and a half four hours i couldn't get up and my arms were laid out on the floor and
like if you get the right plant like that pops out i'm not saying you will but that that maybe is
like a one in ten throw in them and um i grew the ghost cross special indica females last year
and the one you kind of know which ones are the ones because they have this like
indigo blue jeans fucking color to the leaps in the bud and you smoke it and you're like oh it's
just gonna be some sleepy indica and you smoke it and you're like fuck i'm i'm really fucking high
like you don't just get that like like you smoke my cherry limeade and you're just like okay i'm
relaxed and mellow and you get sleepy this shit is like fucking stoned you know you get you you
kind of get the full spectrum of uh of feeling so it's a neat um it's a neat thing and it'll add
some serious chunk to stuff that you cross it with and not like the long buds but like the
baseball butts you know like that old serious like you know 1980 1984 85 afghani shit that
old timers remember i like i i just you know it's that new shit well we're at 650 right now
damn that stuff sounds incredible it's neat i mean i'd like to see it get back out and get
circulated like whoever gets these if you make stuff and you know spread it around like it's
it's um you know it's cool shit we got five extra dollars we're at 655
i thought weed people thought in increments of 1500 what the fuck
yeah we get the one dollar outbid sometimes 656. nikhil this could be yours
five dollars to slap it get him over the head with the five dollars come on man you're gonna
let him do that to you that's cool it's 40 seeds and you know me i'll probably just drop
fucking punch up them and put them in there and then you realize you're gonna wind up getting 65
it's not bad you know i mean shit if it's 40 what right right now 40 at that price yeah that's just
a pack price that's that's cool it's good good and fair i like it when stuff auctions like that
no price gouge by by any means yeah it's legit they can sell off the rest of them or what to
sell them all at some point or whatever it's probably worth 10 times the value anyway
it depends on what you do with them you know i mean if you're just going to grow them out and
not do much with them then it's not worth much but if you take that and you toss it on og and
sell seeds all of a sudden it's a big question big value you know we're at 700 now mr murdoch
always hunting the day know this name
damn and i'd already typed in nikhil morrissey at 655
he's like fucking i'm jumping it i'm not going with no
big 60. all right i've now entered jg murdoch at 700
and if someone tops that i'll have to read data enter that data
what's neat about this too is this isn't just me buying more fucking fitted regenerative caps and
stencils filling in the jean part with rasta colors and shit like this is going to people
who are actually going to be buying food with it food not bombs so this is way cooler than
just buying some fucking seeds for fucking my dumb ass you know this is good shit
all right so we should we do a 10 second countdown
one
five four three and jay murdoch is yours at one at zero awesome all right i'll give you 100 seats
i thought everyone knew that was gonna happen again that's why they should have gone for like
1500 you can't expect it though man next time i'll be like no no i can't budge man i can't budge
then we got all back all right
all right
should we call it a night on that oh fuck nikhil morrissey
are we gonna honor that
it's all right
i don't know man that's all right that's a weak weak increase for a late bid
all right we'll keep it at uh jg all right so jg murdoch
unless we get a significantly larger bid i don't know that's kind of that's even if it's a huge
bid more that's mean to do that to murdoch okay all right so make your donation here
and you
oh yeah you won something two items ago you won 200 seats
and then shoot an email to
that and should we call it a night on that
i think it's pretty good i mean i'm you know like i said i i heard it goes till august but
you know
uh most colorful strain i've ever grown or seen probably that i've ever grown was probably purple
unicorn that i grew this year from bode it was just solid from the inside out and i've seen
like my my strain that i call uh jupiter's it gets all the way dark but like the the purple
unicorn was just from the inside out super super gnarly it's similar to an old thing that smelled
like dried mangoes we got back in the day i don't know if that was like black russian or something
like that but purple unicorn super purple um peter can you shoot me a video of the purple unicorn
um peter can you shoot me a message that tells me what the hell i did you just did
you're gonna wake up in the morning and be like i gave away my whole seed collection last night
do i don't have one left i drank two ipas and i'm three shots to the wind
no i just i'm not sure exactly what when where exactly all that happened so if you can shoot
me that and then i'll go ahead and get addresses and i'll get those out to those guys
yeah we'll confirm donations and then send shipping info cool
uh all right any last comments from the chat no
from you guys this is the first time i'm looking at all of you and you're all just like
totally everyone's like sinking into their seats everyone's burnt dude it's midnight
i'm beat it is i was beat a couple hours ago i'm not gonna lie yeah but you pulled through
and you sat on a couch for another hour and a half past when you wanted to sit on the couch
it's been a long road to get to this point so just to get this out of the way was huge and
really want to thank all you guys for stepping up and coming out and looking forward to the
next one and the next one and keep it going for a while and thank you peter for hosting us and
making it all easy
hell yeah so we we appreciate having you we raised about 78 7900 dollars
which is a good start for week one this is yeah this is the first one or is this the
yeah there have been some before but but it's kind of like the like we're it's beginning of
hopefully doing something consistently and over and over and over and over um the first steady
date right it's official now it's official adam we're still trying to figure out something to get
like kind of an automated thing running as a side stream for this too right for people to
be able to we're gonna we're gonna have a we're gonna do some 24-hour options on ig as long as
we can keep pages from getting deleted constantly and then we are trying to build some sort of a
website because yeah the money factor we may have had a major breakthrough today and we may have
found a way that we may be able to take funds in which would accelerate and make everything a lot
easier that's been the big hold up so far is you know because you're talking about six figures
you're talking about problems with handling the money and i think after talking to some
attorneys today ava had some really good news and it looks like we're going to be able to move
forward and i think it's going to get a lot easier and really looking forward we should know more by
next week so i'll keep you all updated and that's awesome i don't have the answers i don't have the
answers tonight but it did sound like today we made some progress and yeah so cool man
although i still wouldn't want it all going through my account no i mean the best thing you
can do really is to do these things and then have people go ahead and go straight to somewhere else
so basically like people know they'll get their seeds and we know that they gave something to
somebody somewhere along the way one of the ideal thing would be you'd have like an e-commerce
that can have a bunch of vendors and each vendor is essentially a recipient so whether it's like
food not bombs which is a non-profit or an individual who lost their home uh the website
is just like the air traffic controller that can see what's going on yeah like that was my
but then it but then the money goes into the bank accounts of the people who need it
and and you don't touch anything yeah that was kind of my my concept because i i've done i've
done charity stuff and i make it so that it doesn't ever i never touch anything so it's like
you put something up and then people give it to the person who who needed the help in the first
and then that bypasses then everybody knows there's no potential for fraud there's no potential
for skim and there's no uh there's there's nowhere anybody ever has to have an account
full of anything so i was thinking like if you could have something that was kind of like a
hybrid between um ebay and craigslist and gofundme um that would be really cool
um so that you could go okay there's this thing i want and here's these people i want to help and
you could select one and select the other and then it would just go there but i i don't know
shit about writing um code to make sites and all that kind of stuff so i mean i can't do it but
it's it's um it's cool because it would disconnect you from any kind of uh fuckery in it you know
yeah no that's kind of what we're working on yeah and i'm hoping i i'm like asking my brother who's
in rhode island right now i'm like so i have a project for you cool to build out another website
that can do x y and z well i mean it dude and he's like what if you could create it as a model
for this you could create it as a model for anything and if there was one thing that i
learned from doing um from doing auction stuff was that if you give people the opportunity to
help people they want to do it like i i went to grab um i went to grab food yesterday and i walked
into the place and i seen these dudes who were hurting and it was fuck it had to be 30 degrees
outside and i walked inside and i grabbed some food grabbed some burritos and ceviche and shit
and i walked back out and the dudes are like hey you know we're we're in a bad spot and we're just
wondering if you got any help and i was like i was stoked that they spoke up because i was like cool
you know here's fucking 20 bucks you guys can go get a burrito and i was like you smoke weed and
they were like yeah and i was like but cool i have this i have this fucking bag of la confidential
from buds and roses that dude gave me and i cracked it open and i was like damn this shit's
chronic and i pulled out a couple grams and gave it to the the dude and he was stoked and like
it was a cool thing and the trippy thing is you can go through your day-to-day life
and you never see anybody to help because you got your own routine and you got your own
shit you ain't walking around like santa claus trying to help people out but if you make something
that's always there as an institution you'd have a lot of people who would be trying to throw shit
that way so that if you could do it with this you could get it you could you you could uh set kind
of a precedent to make people be able to do shit i mean a couple bucks to somebody who's fucked is
is great and a couple bucks to somebody who has you know a couple boxes you don't even
notice the difference it's just a little adjustment you know right anyway yeah i mean
there's there's talk we might catapult this thing into something long term and even permanent because
i think we all know fires aren't going anywhere you know yeah it's i mean it's every fucking year
yeah there's people that only learned about this today even though i've been you know i
don't have a huge following and i i mean i had a little bit of a following before my account got
disabled but i i've got people reaching out to me all this week i had people hitting me up today i
had people hitting me up 10 minutes before the show trying to donate more seats so there's you
know even as many seats as we have i got more people still wanting to get involved and people
still wanting to contribute and donate and so i think it has the potential to really be something
long term and you know maybe we maybe we can get our 501 c3 paperwork and we can get the paperwork
and the attorneys and the cpas to keep it all straight for us and we can make it a permanent
thing yeah it would be cool man right yeah cool so with that we will uh be back on a regular basis
so to everyone watching at 12 15 on a wednesday night in california and on the west coast and
3 15 on the east coast and people waking up in australia or not australia in south africa and
whatever time it is in australia right now but thanks for tuning in and uh
yeah we'll have finest next time we'll have uh
yeah we'll have a solid lineup yet again so and thanks like jackson evan uh thanks for
jumping in and donating stuff cascadian running a tight ship yeah thank you big time guys
good to see you guys like my mic was moving thanks for having me had a great time all right
well yeah good let's uh we'll see you guys soon bye
