It was just like with Nitro-Pak, right? Everybody says Nitro-Pak.
I get a guy fly in to talk to me and so because Humboldt County is a big timber region,
there's a company called Simpson Timber, they're a massive timber company, a multi-state timber company.
So the owner of the timber company comes to me to get cannabis info,
so that he can understand how is cannabis going to affect my world.
So I chop it up with him and then he brings in people from other industries to talk to me.
But he brought a guy in that dries all the lumber for like Pacific Lumber in Louisiana Pacific.
And I'm talking, we're talking lumber, forest worth of lumber, and he does like Purina dog food.
And so we're having a conversation and he goes,
when's the last time you opened a bag of dog food and saw mold on it?
And I said, never. And he goes, that's because we dry it.
You see any nitrogen in that shit? And I was like, no. And he goes, because you don't need it.
He said, nitrogen is for people who don't know how to stabilize products.
He said from professional dryers, from people who are drying, global level drying as an industry,
you're not drying it right.
He said it's stabilization, bringing the levels down.
And then for me doing outdoor biologicals has a higher holdability.
So when I do pro bio pot outside, I have less of an oxidization, degradation than I do if I run chemical.
So if you're doing outdoor organics, it seems to hold longer as a comparative,
where I get less oxidization. And so if a variety is moving like crazy, not as important.
But if you're going to sit on that stuff for a minute and it starts to gold at all, you're dropping dollar value.
And so people say, well, you nitro pack it.
But man, nitro packing adds complexity and money.
And as soon as you crack it, the degradation after nitro is fast.
And so I'm talking to this guy that owns this massive company from the East Coast of Carolina.
And so he flies out to chop it up because he and I were trying to come up with modular drying chambers
that we could set at farms in the hills so that the farmer could control the drying of the product.
And then people use the word curing, but curing is actually a process.
And it's not just holding it. It's actually a process of holding it at a specific temperature
and dropping the humidity by 15 points over a multi-month period.
And so that multi-month period on a computer gradient is what allows this product to actually stabilize and sustain for time.
And so you would be able to take the product, rough bucket, put it into your drying chambers.
We were looking at solarization so that we didn't have to use, because you can't use jennies up in the hill.
A lot of these farms don't have grid power.
And so I said, look, if we could come up with containers that were sealed, that were climatically stable,
and then we could have solarization, now we could deliver them.
The farmer could now use this to hold the product because I worry about the farmer sending their product to other people to work with.
So you had a lot of these giant manufacturing facilities that are like, hey, give us your product and we'll do it.
And I'm like, these guys can't even roll weed.
Like, I'm straight up. They can't even roll weed.
And I'm like, and it doesn't define you, but it sure gives me a pretty goddamn good clue of how much pot you've touched.
And so when you can't handle it at the consumption level, how are you supposed to handle it at the production level?
And so I'm like, I wouldn't let you do it.
And so I realized there was a need for farmers to have an ability to hold their varietals in hand themselves,
but not use antiquated technology.
And then to have hepa filter scrubbers so that you didn't have pathogenic issues while you were holding it.
And then once the facility had the ability to do your processing, because in Humboldt, most of the farms are offsite processing,
how do you take the product now and then you just put it on?
They wanted to do buildings, and I said, it won't work. You'll have to move it too many times.
Put it into a container that they can then haul onto the back of a truck and bring the truck back down the hill,
drop the container at the facility.
It sits in lots under a metal tag like you do when you're shipping overseas.
And that way, it's been sealed, it's been sealed, it's solarized.
You have digital gauges on the outside that you can check for maintenance so you know the climactic situation inside.
This way, when they're ready to do the actual processing of it from that point forward, they can then crack it,
and what you have is really high-quality product ready to use.
And that is where we were working on it, but it's trying to get the price points right,
because as the margins keep dropping in cannabis, everybody who came into cannabis had a price point of it's going to be 2,000 a pound.
Then the next group comes in, it's going to be 1,400 a pound.
And then now these guys are like, look, I told you I was going to give you 14 for your outdoor,
now I need to give you seven.
And so all of a sudden, I'm like, wait a minute.
If you have to drop the number by half, you guys are going to go out of business in a minute,
and I wouldn't want to give you any of my weed.
I don't want you to touch any of my products if you're going to go out of business, because where's my product going to go?
And so a lot of this is, I'm working on all this R&D with all these companies to mess around,
but it's a matter of getting some stabilization to occur in the industry
so that you have companies that are actually going to be here in a year.
Because half these cats I see aren't going to be here in two months.
And especially with legalization coming in where like, careful, state come in, they're going to scrub you right out.
And so the problem is on these processing facilities, if all that material is there and they come in,
they're not going to shut you down and let you move the product,
they're going to shut you down and seize the product.
And so that's something I couldn't recommend to a farmer,
because otherwise what you're doing is you're sending them down the road to get screwed.
And it's a lot of this stuff on how do you get the end user to be able to get those price points
to where cured cannabis would be at these upper echelons, whether it's indoor or outdoor, bio or chemical.
All of them can deliver ultra high quality product. There's no question.
We can get high quality from many different methodologies.
But it's all the secondary production, how is it processed, and how did you stabilize it?
Those are some of the next issues that you deal with.
It's not part of what I'm working with, it's just what I'm working with with companies that are coming in saying,
hey, can you help us mess with this and try to figure out what do we do,
because I need the farmers that I'm involved with to be able to have the crop,
grow it out, have a known destination, but have an ability to hold it on their own property safely until it gets trucked out.
Yes, until the distributor gets it.
Because like I said, all these guys are popping up and popping out,
and I watched a couple distributors come through last year.
What was the company that was doing this one? I won't even mention their name.
Man, they ripped a number of people off.
And I mean, it was nutty, where rivers of cats got robbed.
And then all these cats come to me and they're like, what's my recourse?
And I'm like, well, you don't really have a legal recourse because they've already dumped the company and they're out of here.
The only recourse you have is old school recourse.
And I can't recommend that really unless we're whispering in your ear.
So it's problematic because most people aren't from the old day,
and so they don't see it the same way.
And you wouldn't recommend that to anybody new,
because that's something that they're completely uninvolved in and unaware of.
They're all trying to go forward.
Yeah, and you can't make any mistakes and you can't put yourself in these terrible positions.
And so basically, you just get screwed.
And I'm watching guys getting peeled for 200 pounds at a time.
You know, the extractor was supposed to take it.
Boom, extractor disappears, all the stuff's gone.
Extractor's business is out of here.
Homie's moved out of the area.
A new company picked it up, and the new company says we're not picking up any of the debt.
We've washed the debt.
Where's all my product? We don't know.
But we've washed the debt.
And it's exhausting, you know?
And so a lot of it is trying to find cats you can work with,
and trying to figure out how do you work,
because if we work in capacity, sometimes tight, sometimes loose,
but it lets us have an ability to continue going forward,
because once you really start to see the level that's coming, it's going to be mind-bending.
And when they come in and start to whack this,
I want to make sure that there's pieces that are existing, appellations that are existing, regions.
LA has regions that are existing that are known spots of production,
people that are known for production,
proprietary methodologies, strain selection,
and secondary post-production handling processing.
All that stuff has value, because nobody's just going to come in and just take it over.
It's just that they're going to come in, and they're going to come at you with aggressive pricing,
and then lottage.
And so we'll start to see it with genomics,
where if we don't develop things that work for us,
then they'll develop things that work in Kansas and Nebraska,
and they'll be able to grow cannabis in those regions that have high heat and high humidity,
because they'll find the cultivars that work.
And then they'll be able to use other terpene methodologies
to enhance this for all the edible markets, for the pen markets,
and all of a sudden, our market's getting truncated and minimized.
And for me, I'm just like,
if I just brawl it out right now as hard as I can, and run as hard as I can,
and I just don't make any mistakes by teaming up with anybody that's shady,
and anybody that's like, you know, we got big money,
and I'm like, you got big problems.
Because in our world, we never just threw money at problems like that.
I've never seen money wasted so much.
Yeah, that's what we say.
It's crazy.
So we'll figure it out. We'll figure it out.
But I'm like, how did you make this much money if you were this stupid?
And it blows my, and that's lucky.
And I'm like, and it's real, because you were brilliant in a field,
but now you're taking, it's called, I was a salvage diver for a while, right?
So I used to do underwater construction.
And you don't take data from one table and extrapolate it to another,
because your residual nitrogens aren't the same.
And so all of a sudden, you start to find out you're going to die underwater
because you took data from one thing and applied it to another.
You don't ever do that in mixed gas diving.
So I look at this, and I'm like, let me get this straight.
You did something here, and you're going to apply it there,
and it's going to be the same?
That's crazy.
And we're seeing it every day.
And I'm almost grateful to some respects,
because it allows some of us to realize, don't do that and run as fast as you can.
But at the same time, the money is so attractive to people who are desperate
that they believe that these guys with money are going to solve the problems,
these big new super distributors with all these massive facilities
are going to solve your problems.
And I'm like, these guys only got four stores they're moving to.
How the hell are they going to move 11 metric tons a week to four stores?
And I got people that actually say this to me.
I got seven acres outside.
I'm like, what are you going to do with it?
I got a store.
I say, what store do you have?
Because it better be the best store on planet Earth.
Because nobody's moving 100,000 pounds.
And they have a flower market, not distillate market,
because in their mind they're, you know, and I'm just like,
you guys aren't catching this.
This is very directed, and you have to utilize individuals
that have careers in cannabis because we understand market.
We understand what people want to buy, and we understand that people are fickle,
and if you don't have product twice, they find a new dealer.
So they'll come to you once, you got any flower?
No, I'm out right now.
All right, I'll hit you again.
They hit you twice, I'm out.
They're going to someone else.
And if that person satisfies the deal and does a good job, you're coming back.
You've got to go and reestablish your whole distribution base,
and that's something I don't want to do.
What I'm doing now is just doing some travel,
and I'm getting to meet people that are in similar situations
where we're all trying to chew our way through the system,
and our teeth are worn flat because we've been chewing on it for so long already.
If you have shiny, sharp teeth, you're too new.
I want to see a broken tooth.
I want to see a couple of broken ones, you know what I mean?
The chipped one where you fell on the ground and got kneed,
that lets me know that you at least understand the ups and downs.
And then what it does, it puts you in a more cautious position
to where you're not going to run headlong right into failure.
And then it lets us work with people that have similar minds.
And then we have new facilities that are coming online,
and it just lets us say, listen, these are the things you need to be aware of,
and if you want to mess with me, mess with me, and if you don't, don't.
I'm building a whole new facility, but it's not I'm getting into cannabis for the first time.
I'm in my own goddamn life.
All I'm doing is creating new methodologies
so that I can keep up with the pace of technology,
so that as it's moving, it's just that my lawyer always says,
be the leading edge, not the bleeding edge.
And so I touch as much tech as I can,
I touch as much scientific shit as I can,
and because I got to mess with so many different university people,
and I do projects with universities on an intellectual sharing level,
it allows me for them to say, hey, this is what we see,
this is where the problems are,
and then it lets me get awareness I wouldn't get.
And it just helps. It helps educate them.
And I need it, because otherwise I'm only as good as I am,
and I don't think I know the whole industry.
I'm not a master of distillate.
That's not where I spent my time.
