What are you seeing as far as the advantages for auto flowers for folks that are growing
at a scaled level at acreage size?
And I would say since this is going to be on the internet forever, this is for posterity,
go back and take a look if you're very interested about geeking out on some of the historical
background on ruderalis.
That's the technical term for auto flowering plants.
Ruderalis is Latin for, derived from ruderal, which is rubble, from the rubble.
These are plants that can grow anywhere.
They can grow where it freezes.
They can grow through frost.
They can grow in very, very crazy situations and actually finish.
The trick at industrial scale is really being able to get them in the ground at the right
time.
So whether that's a direct seeding or transplanting before the plant goes through stress, there's
some underlying genetic mechanisms that lead the plant to go directly into flower when
it senses a stressful situation.
Just to step back for a second, because of that posterity sake, take a look for that
geek out moment at Ernie Smalls.
Ernie Smalls is a Canadian researcher who's been working on cannabis related issues for
the last 45 years.
Brilliant gentleman.
He is the person that was responsible for coming up for the industrial hemp 0.3 THC
rule.
If you go back and look at his earlier writings, it was based on taking a leaf off at the top
of the plant rather than testing the top eight inches of flower at 0.3%.
Hopefully that's going to be incorporated into the USDA rules as they move forward with
the farm bill.
But in 2018, he wrote a seminal paper.
I'm sure that this is going to go down as one of those testaments to auto flowering
in the long term.
The paper is about highlighting the fact that these day neutral auto flowering plants represent
really the peak in human agriculture.
So in a lot of other crops, the reasons and rationales that we have for expanding the
total productivity of each individual crop on a per acre basis has come down to plant
breeders, geneticists, et cetera, over long periods of time, being able to make the plants
more compact, make them more uniform, and take wild types of plants that tend to have
seeds in varying places on the plant and consolidate them into a usable, machine harvestable, really
energy dense organism.
And that's been true for many of the other crops that have been domesticated.
Ernie Smalls goes so far as to say that that is the most profound thing that we've seen
in over 13,000 years of human agriculture is this move towards.
He calls them semi dwarf or dwarf germplasm.
So the title of the paper is dwarf germplasm.
And essentially it's about how to get tremendously large yields, both for food crops, if you're
growing for seed, hopefully in places where they're not growing for Sensimia or cannabinoid
products.
We can get into that later.
But also for cannabinoid production in general.
So it's all about being able to maximize the space, minimize the inputs, and really allow
both farmers and people who benefit from these compounds to have more access to them and
to benefit from this plant.
And autoflowering plants are tremendous at this.
Yeah, maybe we ought to explain.
So these plants, if you're not familiar with autoflowers, two things.
First of all, they'll start to flower in 18 days, up to three weeks.
They'll just flower, period.
Which is pretty incredible.
And then the other thing about them is that you can overdo it with them.
This is a plant that grew quickly.
They were discovered in about 1900, 1903.
Scientists found them in the Volga River area in Russia.
He described it.
They had low THC or no THC.
And so they basically forgot about them.
And then in the 70s, people started to say, hmm, maybe we could breed these.
And so the breeding happened.
And then in 2003, a guy was able to successfully commercialize one called Lowrider.
And these are the ultimate heirloom kind of thing.
They're not a land race, really, I don't think, anymore.
But they're heirloom.
And you can breed these things.
They go flower in the 18-day, third week.
By nine weeks, they're finished.
You harvest it.
Wow.
The breeding potential and opportunities on these things are just spectacular.
So the opportunity to be able to improve on this plant, like we have, in theory, improved
on some of our agricultural plants, is absolutely incredible.
Another thing that I love about them is that if you have got a greenhouse environment,
you don't really want to supplement with light for whatever reason, you can actually do two
cycles of autoflowers without light depth.
And that's crazy, right?
I'm experimenting with that this year.
And the biggest thing I ran into was trying to keep them warm, because autoflowers don't
particularly like to start off their life with cold feet.
The idea is, you can start something early spring and have it finish 4th of July, and
then put seeds in that same no-till environment and let those pop, and they're done by October 1st.
So you've run two cycles, and you don't have to pull any tarp, which we all love to avoid, right?
And so that's fantastic.
And the other thing I wanted to hit on was how appropriate these are for patients and
for people with lower mobility, because like Jeff mentioned, these are very compact plants, right?
These pretty much top out at around 3, 3.5 feet.
And because of that, you don't have to do the reaching, and they're not hard to break down.
And the patient can stand up and look all around them for mold, instead of trying to
work with some of these nine-footers, where they're just impossible to work with.
They're beautiful, and I love them, and I want to toke them, right?
But they're really, you know, they're all caged and difficult to work with.
So this is something that folks who are living in an apartment, who are growing in a tent,
can grow four of these together with no sweat.
You don't even need to scrog them.
And then if you're a patient, they're so easy to use and always going to flower in a particular
time frame and be ready to go, that it really opens up the door.
Let's not leave the impression that these are little teeny baby flowers, because they're
little teeny plants, you know?
I mean, there are some, I've seen colas that are 80 grams.
Wow.
The size of your arm.
Unbelievable.
And they'll have, you know, 10 of these colas on a plant.
So these are not the low rider that you remember.
These are a totally new plant, ready for prime time.
Just to add on to that, so yes, you can make them flower in general for field production.
We're looking at about 77 days from the time that the seed emerges in a starter plug, transplanted
into the field within the week.
77 days from that time of emergence until we harvest it.
And what Jeff is saying is absolutely true.
What we see with regular photoperiod plants is the stem and stalk weight accounts for
about 27.5% of the total biomass of the plants.
With these day neutral plants, you're looking at roughly 19%.
So this is a order of, you know, talking about a significant percentage of increased biomass.
Now the one thing that I will say, and it's a little bit of a brain bubble, is try growing
one of these in a 100 gallon Smart Pot.
Okay?
So it's really nice for patients or someone who's just trying to experiment with one of
these plants in a three gallon container to have it on their deck.
It's amazing.
It's very useful.
They're very useful plants.
They stay small.
They're not going to flip out if you hit them with a porch light in the middle of the night
when you go outside.
But if you put one in a much bigger container, you're going to notice that the flowering
system is genetically determined based on stress, and stress particularly to the root
zone.
So you can actually grow five, six, seven, eight, nine foot tall auto flowering plants
if they have enough root space and they're not restricted.
They're actually, when we think about cannabis, one of the things that researchers always
go back to is the amazing plasticity of that plant and its ability to respond to the environment
that it's placed in.
Auto flowering plants, these day neutrals are, to me, it's the epitome of that.
All right.
So I want to pull together something Jeff just said and something you just said and
take it further.
So Jeff loves to talk about how these scrappy little plants from Russia, you can put them
in rocky crappy soil and they still very much thrive.
And you have spoken to me before, just like you just did to all of us, that it's the stress
of the roots hitting the bottom of the pot that's going to trigger flowering.
But I've never heard you give this example before of these large hundred gallon pots,
which makes me very interested in growing an eight foot auto flower just to do it.
So here's my question.
Is that if, how do they grow in soil then?
Because like I know you go right into the ground, but there's no eventual bottom of
the pot.
So there has got to be something going on scientifically.
Genetic.
It is genetic.
So what's the trigger?
In part.
And one of the things when you're, there are many, many different soil conditions.
In the Willamette Valley, we're blessed with a number of things, including, we'll get into
this as we talk about farming at scale.
But we have in certain locations, 38 feet of topsoil.
And if it's properly prepared, you can end up with very large plants.
I mean, we had plants that were averaging a pound and a half per plant, planted very
densely in the field just north of Corvallis last summer for one of our R&D trials.
It really comes down to proper soil preparation and the ability for those roots to just go
out and do their thing.
When we look at different plants from a breeding perspective, what we're really trying to do
is we need photo period plants for very particular locations.
We need plants that are going to flower early, but are still photo period sensitive.
And we need auto flowering plants so that you can deploy these plants in basically,
once you've developed a particular chemo bar, you can deploy them anywhere in the world.
And that's really what makes these different compounds available to people.
So having CBD varieties, having CBG varieties, CBC rich plants, more importantly, now working
on CBDV, CBGV, and CBCV, along with other minor compounds that we don't even know how
to quantify and don't have reference standards for.
All of those are incredibly important.
And not just from a patient perspective, being able to grow it at home and take care of your
own family or take care of yourself through the joy of actually gardening a plant.
There's something emancipatory about being able to do that.
I think everybody feels that.
But being able to make sure that those compounds are available at scale, at a price that individuals
can actually afford to treat themselves.
It's pretty important.
And these plants make that possible.
One good example of that is being able to use the plasticity of auto flowering plants
for a particular ecological niche.
So most people here are probably familiar with how much grass seed the Willamette Valley produces.
The Willamette Valley is home to 95% of the world's grass seed production.
We're able to grow grass seed in the Willamette Valley, for better or for worse, due to the
climate that we have.
So we don't normally get rain in the Willamette Valley through the middle of July up until
the middle of August.
We have a month of, generally speaking, very, very dry conditions.
And it allows a competitive advantage of grass seed farmers who have good irrigation and
great soil to be able to grow this particular crop, cut it down, field dry it, it sits in
the field for five to seven days, and then it gets combined and picked up.
No other place in the world has that steady climate that allows for that particular, even
though most people like food rather than lawns, but no one else is able to really do this.
We can actually do the same thing and use this ecological advantage paired with a technological
and horticultural advantage by using these auto flowering plants to plant thousands of
acres of very rare and useful compounds that are present in these plants after specific
breeding, grow them out, and dry them in a way that doesn't require a huge drying infrastructure
that you would have to have for other crops or in other locations.
It's a huge, I think it's a huge step forward in terms of being able to make these compounds
available, make them an everyday thing so that you can literally walk into any supermarket
and find something that is useful in targeting a particular malady.
You just need to figure out exactly what those compounds are.
Which is which, yeah, right on.
I've got two follow-up questions for you, Seth.
The first one is, I hear from a lot of folks when I become kind of an evangelist for auto
flowers because I'm so into them, but people come up to me and they're like, we don't want
auto flowers because we can't breed with them and they're not for everybody and I want my
nine foot plants.
You already dispelled the short plants thing.
I did not know they were taller, but I like that you just said that there are particular
nature environments where you want the photo period, some that are photo period but finish
early and then there's the auto flowers.
I've not heard that analysis before.
So will you go a little more in depth in that?
Why do we still need the other two categories?
We don't.
It's just, it's nice to have diversity.
Well we do need them.
We need them to breed with because the land race strains are photo period.
So we need those.
So yeah, we need them.
Good example is, this is something that a lot of us, living in a black market, it was
difficult to be able to get information about the way that people produce in other areas
of the country or other areas of the world.
Great example is Kentucky and Tennessee.
So Kentucky and Tennessee have incredibly wet July, August, and September's and then
they have the very end of September and then through October they have perfect weather.
It's almost like what Oregon is like in late August, early September before the rains hit.
So as most of us know, here we need to make sure that our plants are out of the field,
taken care of, harvested, dried, properly handled.
If it's not done by the middle of September, you're really pushing yourself.
You're really chancing it.
In those areas, it's the opposite.
You want to actually get your plants out at the end of October.
So in that case, a long season, a full season photo period sensitive plant is really the
way to go.
But, yeah, if you have an auto flowering plant in certain areas, you can plant your auto
flowers in early May, go back and replant in mid July and end up getting two crops and
basically double the productivity of what you have available to you.
I will say that they are a pain in the ass.
Why?
From a breeding perspective.
So we make feminized seed.
We don't use males.
And if you can come to me with a good argument as to what is actually contained in the male
genome that's useful and how you can access and figure out what those traits are, I'm
open to having my mind changed.
That's what science is about.
But the way that we operate is we make feminized seed and we use females because it allows
us to know what the chemotype is, to know what the terpene profiles are, to know what
the potency is, the flower structure, and then be able to figure out how that's inherited
from generation to generation.
Auto flowering plants are a different animal in the sense that when you plant that seed,
that clock is ticking.
You can't just go, oh, hey, that's a great plant.
Well, just re-veg it and get some cuttings off of it and use it for breeding.
It's done.
A great example of this, last year I was working through, had about 20 different CBG rich plants
trying to figure out what the average ratio of CBG to THC was to identify which plants
we could use or at least what the frequency was for developing really, really high ratio
plants.
And one of the individuals from that population, we sent the results into a third party lab
after we tried to screen them in house, and they came back and said, whoa, 50% of your
total cannabinoid profile was a compound that we've never seen before.
It's not a terpene.
It looks like a cannabinoid from its molecular weight, but we don't have any reference standards
to be able to identify what it is.
And this is PIXIS in Portland.
They're a very good lab.
They have more cannabinoids available to them than most labs in the country and very good
equipment, very well-trained personnel.
And the person I was interacting with said, can you send me another sample?
And I'm tearing my hair out saying that was the only plant.
That was it.
It's gone.
It's gone.
You can't get that back.
And so you go back and grow hundreds of those plants out, and you never find that same plant
again.
So for a structured breeding program, when you're trying to isolate these individual
compounds and turn them into useful field-ready or home-grower-ready seeds, it poses a significant
challenge because you only have a certain amount of time.
We have literal professionals now working at our company who are trying to find other
ways of making this happen.
And it's a significant technological challenge.
So there's ways around it, but it takes a ton of space, a ton of time, and a lot of
motivation to really be able to isolate them.
So just a...
They're a different animal when it comes to the breeding standpoint.
But that's from a professional perspective, from a real amateur perspective.
If you take two auto-flowering plants and breed them together, you can breed them.
And they're fun.
It's nine weeks.
Holy crow.
I think I'll name this after my wife.
Just like the big guys do.
But it's really kind of fun.
And the idea that you can get somebody's genetics...
And now I've got to be careful when I talk about genetics at this conference here.
Sorry, folks.
Just a little side joke here.
Too soon.
Too soon.
You know, you get somebody's great genetics, and you say, gee, I wonder if I, as an amateur,
can I fool around with this stuff a little bit?
You know, now you're not as exact as these guys, obviously, but you can.
You can fool around with it.
And you can do it all winter long.
And under 20 hours of light, you can do it all night long.
I mean, it's just...
This is a fun, fun plant to grow.
Yeah, it can be difficult.
And it can cause some problems.
And if you're a professional grower, you've got to adjust yourself a little bit.
But boy, if you are a professional grower, and you're growing medical cannabis, get into
these auto-flowers.
See what you think.
See if we can improve the ability to get more medicine out there.
And it...
I think it's a really important point, too.
You brought up the historical reference back to the lowrider varieties from 2003.
That was a shitty plant.
Oh, but the worst.
It was the worst.
I grew some of that, and it just made me sick to smoke.
I mean, it's horrible.
The terpene profile was terrible.
The structure was not great.
But you could see the promise.
You could see the promise.
And what it took was small-time breeders who were working under either medical programs
or in their garage surreptitiously to improve those plants.
And it wasn't until 2010 that I finally consumed something that changed my mind about auto-flowering
plants.
Someone had taken one of DJ Short's blueberry varieties, myrcene-dominant with a number
of different minor terpene...
Different minor terpenes that end up making it a very calm, anti-anxiety experience.
I mean, it's a beautiful piece of work.
But they finally instilled that into an auto-flowering plant that made the effect and the flavor
just as good or better than a lot of the other commercially available varieties at the time.
And that was the...
No, you're right.
The early ones, they were interesting, but they weren't any good.
And that's why...
You know, I remember there's a list serve called auto-flowering.net, which we kid about.
They threw me off because I got on it and I said, gee, I'm writing this book.
I need some pictures.
And they threw me off.
So I finally, thanks to Shango, got back on again and Ted has...
But when they first started...
And you would be on Grass City or one of those other forums and you say, oh, I'm growing
auto-flowers.
People laughed at you.
They made fun of you.
You were stigmatized and basically you were drummed out of the community.
So somebody started the auto-net.
And if you go back the way...
People were just sort of struggling, struggling, struggling.
And around 2008, 2009, somewhere right in that area, they hit the sweet spot.
And then they started laughing at other people.
And the pictures, oh my God.
And on Instagram, just yesterday, I saw one.
Somebody had one of these movies where it went from seed to harvest in two seconds.
Holy crow.
Fabulous.
I'm telling you folks, get some seeds.
You are going to love these.
And you know, I love to buy feminized seeds for my own home growing and to help patients,
right?
Because being able to take males out of the mix, if you're not breeding them, this is
a win.
But right now there are still lots of auto-flower seeds that are being sold regs, right?
So you're going to get boys and girls.
And so, you know, if you really...
If you just want the flowers and you don't want to play with the plant, as Jeff is suggesting,
get yourself some like fantastic, modern, you know, feminized seeds from like Mephistogenetics
or somebody who's got a good reputation.
And it's all very plug and play, just like Jeff is describing.
But if you want to enjoy that extra horticulture experience of making something that did not
exist in the world until you did it, you know, find yourself a pack of auto-flower reg seeds
and pop a couple of them that you think sound interesting.
And it's really easy to collect male pollen.
You know, you take a branch and put it in a bag and shake it a little bit.
Now you got a bag of pollen and you walk to the other side or maybe your friend's house
and you've got a paintbrush and you put some of that pollen on there and you paint it onto
one branch of the plant.
And then when you're done, next year you're going to have like, you know, 40 or 50 seeds.
And like you said, you get to name it, which can be the most fun part.
But you don't have to wait till next year.
That's the other thing.
I mean, you know, these things grow indoors really well.
In Anchorage, we're really excited about the opportunity to grow these things because we
get a photo period the same time we get the frost.
Man, this is going to just change our whole world.
It's going to be fabulous.
Right on.
So, auto-flowers, as you just heard from talking about the lowrider old chemivore, you know,
a lot of people nowadays still consider them cute, right?
But professionals are like, nah, you know, this is just something on the side that isn't
going to matter to the rest of us.
But then, you know, you meet Seth and you walk acre upon acre of these beautiful plants
in September and the air is filled with terpenes and, you know, you're just like, oh my gosh,
I want to lay out my tent and just like live here, right?
And so what I'd like to hear from you both are, you know, commercial applications, right?
And specifically, let's talk about yield and quality.
Because it's one thing that it's all incredibly easy and we can grow them in tents, but a
lot of people are thinking about, you know, scale for commercial and also am I going to
get enough flower for my effort for home grow?
So I'd like you both to kind of speak to that option.
Well, here in Oregon, I mean, I would start with new breed seeds, frankly.
They're, you know, they're from Oregon.
They were the first ones to get their license to be able to sell seeds and they are growing
for commercial growers.
I think the last time I spoke to them, they said, yeah, you know, they're selling the
seeds at the dispensary.
It's just a pain in the ass.
So they want to go home and there are lots of commercial growers that are using these
things for a couple of reasons.
All the ones we've already discussed.
If you're growing indoors on racks, if you get the right size plant, double racks, triple
racks.
If you want to use the whole ceiling all the way up to the ceiling, the space on these
things make it so that you can interspace them in between existing plants, which is
really a useful thing to do.
You know, you've already got the heat, you've already got the light if you're indoors.
And to be able to interspace a little small plant that's not going to detract from the
bigger plants that you're trying to grow there is, you know, it doubles your ability to get
more income as a result of doing this.
So in that regard, it's important.
And then, of course, the idea that you can get something in seven, nine, you know, if
you want to go longer, 12 weeks.
Wow.
I mean, from a commercial perspective, if the yield is good and the power is good, if
that's the terpene spectrum, you know, you're there.
Why would you want to grow anything but?
So I really highly encourage you to try these.
They're really quite something.
And to contact, you know, people like New Breeze Seeds and get names of other commercial
breeders that are doing it.
Go see what they're doing.
We all share information.
Oh, I'm glad you reminded me of that, too.
Before you answer, I want to plug with the correct URL, autoflower.net.
And because this is a Jeff story was spot on, right?
These were the people who were laughed off of other forums for using autoflowers.
And so they decided to create their own where they could be misfit toys together.
And so, you know, one of the things that we've lost in our scene, I think, as people have
gotten more money focus is everybody's got IP now and everybody wants to hide and protect
things.
And, you know, back in the day, outside of just like not wanting to go to jail, people
were really open to sharing within the community, sharing best practices, swapping seeds, all
this kind of stuff, which you're seeing less on the commercial side, but you're still seeing
on this group at autoflower.net because they are all trying to learn from each other.
They are sharing best practices because they haven't mattered for a while.
And it really excites me to see some of the leaders in that particular community knowing
what things are going to be like in three or four years when autoflowers just falls
off people's lips so easily.
And these people will be the new generation of superstars.
And that's cool when people who...
I love an underdog story, right?
So some of the best bud porn I've ever seen.
Yeah, the photos are just incredible.
So Seth, going back to you, specifically, you know, the people that you are selling
seed to are growing at acreage size, right?
And when people are...
I mean, you don't have to give people pitches about your seeds anymore.
But just for the sake of this conversation, what does that pitch sound like when they're
all like, you know, like, really?
You want me to, you know, plant a whole field of these what are essentially still probably
going to be smaller plants?
Wait a minute.
What's the name of the company again?
Which one?
Yours.
Oh, we don't advertise.
I owe you like five emails.
So we can't handle the advertising right now.
Honestly, we don't pitch it to people.
People come to us and say, hey, I really want to try this.
I really want to try this.
And we say, no, you don't.
It's really hard.
You're going to fuck up.
You're not going to do it right.
It's taken us, it took us three years to figure out how to get the plants in the field without
having flowering in trays and actually getting a good yield.
This year, we're moving on to large scale field trials for different density of planting.
And we've stepped back and we're actually putting it into the hands of much more competent
farmers who've been farming other crops for their entire lives.
And how many cultivars?
Oh, that's such a technical question.
Roughly, how many different kinds of plants, roughly?
One.
Okay.
Not really.
Yeah.
There's a number of different varieties that are out there.
It all comes down.
For us, it's not about cultivars.
Ours are chemotypes.
We look at plants as having very particular chemical compounds that are replicable generation
after generation.
I should correct it.
It's okay.
Don't worry.
But it really comes down to trying to figure out how you, in the same way that you're describing,
maximizing space in a small area inside.
This is how do you maximize the productivity on a per acre basis over thousands of acres?
And it really comes down to what we've seen with successful farmers is either direct seeding,
which is wrought with all kinds of problems that most of you probably don't care about,
but it all comes down to the depth of the planting of the seed.
You're talking about literally millimeters will make or break success.
And then the other side of it is the density of planting for both weed suppression and
to minimize lateral branching and force the plants to basically just turn into one solid
flower.
That's really what we're looking at this year.
Then I would say for 2020, yeah, definitely.
We'll be ready for you to buy auto flowering seeds, both type three CBD rich plants and
type four pure CBG lines.
So what are the other advantages?
I mean, clearly the short cycle is great for scaled agriculture, but when I visited your
farm, you were mentioning some other things like the fact that the plants are uniform,
so they're really easy to repeat, cut on a sled, cut on a sled.
So what are the traditional farming advantages of this plant versus the photo period ones?
The main one, and again, it's going to depend on your location.
In certain areas, you can't cut the plant down and let it dry in the field.
And a lot of people have had questions about that.
Our team did some amazing experiments this last summer, long hours in the field, very
hot conditions, harvesting about 15 acres of, I believe it was about 38,000 plants in
the early August.
Laying them down in the field to basically cook at 100 degrees during the day, and then
grind them up and put them into totes just to see how much CBD would be lost and what
the terpene loss was going to be.
What we found was about, you're going to lose about two thirds of your terpenes.
They're very volatile.
They just vaporize, they're gone.
But there's still enough to be able to get some efficacy from entourage effect, depending
on the type of terpenes that you're working with and their volatility.
The heavier sesquiterpenes tend to stick around.
The really volatile monoterpenes are always going to be gone.
But the moral of the story on that was that CBD content did not change.
There was no statistical difference between plants that were cut down and dried in the
field versus plants that were cut down and hung up in a warehouse.
So again, that's a great thing if you happen to have a very dry late July, early August.
But if you have a rainy period, that may not necessarily be the plant that you want to use.
So it's really about, like any farming or any cannabis production, it's about being
able to use the plasticity of the plant to adapt to your own local ecosystem and climate.
Sixty-five to seventy percent of them are myrcene dominant.
So what we're seeing, it was fun to walk through and take a look at the flowers that were entered
for the competition this year and see the different terpene profiles and watch the evolution
of what growers and breeders are targeting at this point.
Go through and count how many are myrcene dominant this year compared to years past
versus terpenelein dominant plants.
That's the big thing.
It's your fuel flavor, your diesel flavor.
Terpenelein, beta-caryophyllene, alpha-pinene.
We're seeing that now emerge in auto-flowering plants as well.
And it's a little bit more difficult with auto-flowering plants just because of the
breeding that we were talking about earlier.
But they definitely pack all of the flavor.
And to be perfectly honest, the potency as well.
Out of our type four high-CBG varieties that we've developed, the individual plant that
has far and away had the highest overall CBG percentage was an auto-flowering plant.
It came in at almost sixteen percent CBG.
It was over seventeen percent CBGA before decarbing.
It's definitely possible to create absolutely terpene-rich, cannabinoid-heavy, and diverse
chemotypes with these day-neutral plants.
And I know that you're heavy in the analytics and you test everything in-house.
Do their numbers come out comparable to photosensitive plants as well?
On average, they tend to be a little bit lower.
But it also depends on the way that you treat them and the light spectrum.
Don't they also have a little bit more CBD?
You can change any of those.
From an amateur grower, it seems to me that there's always CBD in my auto-flowers.
But I'm not sure there is in my bigger plants.
I don't know.
Yeah, we haven't seen that.
CBC, there is a little bit more CBC.
At least there tends to be.
That actually depends on the varieties that you're looking at.
But it is definitely present in auto-flowering plants.
Let's dispel another rumor about taste.
I know that you spend a lot of time breeding them.
And a lot of people say, okay, so this is a cookies auto-flower.
So essentially that means that's cookies crossed with a root or alice plant.
And a lot of people say the rooty plants taste like crap, right?
So what do you have to say about people saying that there's all this root or alice terpenes
coming along for the ride?
There used to be.
I think that used to be a valid distinction.
One of the main things to consider as well is normally what you're trying to do in a
breeding program is look at the F2.
So you take two parents that are very divergent, cross them, and then do either an open pollination
or a targeted selfing in the F1 generation.
And then you have F2 plants that exhibit every possible combination or permutation that you
can possibly imagine.
It's where the most diversity is expressed.
If you're a plant breeder, that's where you should be looking for amazing things.
If you have a specific terpene profile that you're trying to target, you can't overlook
that F1 cross because that's actually where you would identify the plants that have the
most similar profiles to whatever it is that you're trying to target.
So yeah, you can vary, I won't say very easily, but you could take a GG4 and cross it to an
auto-flowering plant and then do your initial selection in that F1 in-breed it one more
time and you can lock those terpene profiles in.
It obviously takes more time for stabilization of traits and that sort of thing, but terpenes
and making them taste good, we can do that.
