In the audience, brother, appreciate you coming in.
Doc Brown, thank you, brother, for being in space this evening.
Anybody else that wants to join in the conversation tonight,
feel free to come on up.
Well, my partner gets his act together here
and gets ready to run this thing anyway.
I believe in the conversation, it's
supposed to be about breeding and genetics.
And that's something that I've done for a long time
here in the Emerald Triangle.
I'm a Mendocino boy.
Grew up in Mendocino County and been in Humboldt and Mendocino
and practicing in Humboldt, Mendo, and Trinity.
The craft for, I can't believe it, but 51 years now.
So that's part of, I think, part of why I'm in the space
this evening to talk about that a little bit,
my process of how I do plants and that whole thing.
Tradition catching up with science
catching up with tradition over the last couple of years.
It's made the journey real interesting for what
I've come into over the last couple of years.
So whenever you're back, buddy, I'm
going to ping a few people in the room
and invite people to come into the space.
My two-year-old sleeps will be back.
All right, Doc, I'll be right back.
No worries.
No worries, Peter.
I'm just kind of getting myself situated.
I got a fresh bowl of my orange cream
frost packed for this evening, since we're
talking about breeding specifically,
one of my all-time favorites over the last 30 years or so.
So I'm really excited about that one coming out this year
for everybody and all the leaps and bounds
that Good Mo Faux has made over the last couple of months
and a couple of years, bringing it everything
to the forefront here for people to have access
to my plants and stuff now.
So I'm really excited about 2021 getting
underway for everybody here and letting people get access
and people coming in and that whole deal.
So it's like looking forward to it, looking forward to it.
So you got a couple of people coming into the space.
Hey, Ryan.
I'm good, brother.
I'm good.
I'm good.
I'm good.
I'm hanging out with Peter with Future Cannabis Project
this evening.
Peter's the guy that got me into podcasts last year
for the first time ever.
So when he asked me to do stuff, I do stuff with him.
Nice.
So you'll appreciate Peter and him
bringing me out into the getting my old dusty butt
into the world.
Absolutely.
Well, I just wanted to hop in and say hi.
We're actually doing a micro dosing mushroom
trip for Tasha's birthday.
And I got the ping from you, Doc.
And you know, I never say no to you, brother.
So you actually rescued me from another group.
I was like, what am I?
I'm hopping into the mushroom group.
And I just did a micro dose, Doc.
If Peter, if you guys want to join later,
we'll be in there in the mushrooms group.
I like that you can be on mushrooms.
And your evening is to be entertained by Doc's stories.
That's a good trip.
Oh my God.
Let me know what kind of version of a trip you boys want.
If you want blood and guts, I can take you that path too.
Let's do it, bro.
Let's do it.
I love you guys.
OK.
Thanks, man.
All right.
So I'm going to run back up in a couple,
basically like three or four times
after I tell her she has like two more minutes, then
one more minute.
But we got a bunch of people watching live on YouTube.
So this is connecting Clubhouse to YouTube.
And generally, what I thought would be cool
would be to hear about your power moves in the Humboldt
licensed cannabis market.
Brother, I've been busy on that one, man.
You know, I'm done dicking around, Peter, as you know.
I mean, you've been on this journey with me
for a couple of years now.
So you know my story better than a lot of people in this space.
You know, it's like having come from where
I had been in the outlaw game and being underground where
we really couldn't protect ourselves and say anything
about ourselves with this new regulated market.
When I decided to get back in the game about five or six
years ago, I figured if I was going to do it,
that I saw the kind of handwriting
on the wall with the way the industry is changing.
And it's seen how big corporate agriculture had just decimated
small mom and pop farmers.
I knew what they were going to do to the cannabis game.
So over the last couple of years,
I've worked really hard on IP protections
on all my current genetics because I have been ripped off
in the past and have lost things in decades gone by
that other people have laid their names to that I wasn't
going to allow that to happen anymore, as you know, brother.
So now I've got IP protections on everything,
which is a touchy subject for a lot of people because, you know,
and I'm an old open source guy.
I practiced open source before a lot of these people
that bitch at me now were born.
And quite honestly, they haven't paid with the blood, sweat,
and tears that my generation and a lot of us old timers,
men and women have paid, you know.
So it was real important for me if I was going to get back
into this thing and try and make a run at it
at this stage of my life.
I'm in my mid 60s now that I couldn't, you know,
I couldn't just come into this thing
and be taken advantage of.
So everything that I've created in the last 17 years
is now protected with plant patent protection.
And I want to touch on that a little bit because I want people
to understand my reasoning behind this.
I have genetics that I've developed over the last decade
and a half that works specifically for post-traumatic stress.
And I'm a veteran and I use my flowers for my own well-being
because I've been blown up two times and shot once
and fragged once and stabbed once in the defense of my country
many, many decades ago.
And I choose this plant over everything else in my life.
I don't drink alcohol.
I don't take opioids.
I don't smoke tobacco.
I don't do much of anything else other than this plant.
And it's the reason why I'm still on this planet.
And it's a part of my daily routine.
And it's part of the reason why I still function
at this stage of my life.
So when I got back into the game to come back into it,
to be in the commercial market, it was important for me
to make sure that I protected my life's work
and protect what I put my blood, sweat, and tears into
and to make sure that mom and pops and small cultivators
and small growers and home cultivators
had access to my genetics.
And that's how all the patents are written
is so that mom and pops, small cultivators
and small consumers, anybody that wants to grow my plant,
they have access to my plants.
The stick on the deal is to keep the big evil doers.
And I consider that big agriculture, big tobacco,
big alcohol, all the ones that are coming in
and gonna just decimate my craft,
those are the ones that I have put rules on
that they cannot have access to
without it being vetted through my branding,
my breeding company, the lawyers that protect me now
with my blessings on it, which they will not get,
or they're gonna get the crap suit out of them
and we'll win.
So that's just, again, this is all a strategic move
to protect my genetics from being taken away
from my brothers and sisters in arms and anybody else
when I believe big, specifically big pharma,
that's who I'm really concerned with
because if they can control my plant
and keep people from having access for cheap to free
and start charging for it, I can't watch that
or I can't live with that.
So that's why I've done what I've done.
And I've worked for the last year or so
getting everything to a point
where it's ready to come out this year,
2020, like everybody was awash,
but I've worked very hard last year
to get everything in place
with a good propagation partner here
that's just really a rock star in the craft, Hendrix Farms.
I believe it personally, I'm a little bit biased
because they're here in Humboldt County,
but I believe they're the best clone propagators
in the country.
And I just, I love Daniel and David
and I love, and Jeff and everything that those guys do.
They're just a really cool group of men and women
that work this company and they love the plant
and take great pride in what they put out to the public
for home growers and for small consumers.
So that's really, really, was really, really important to me.
And my breeding company, Breeders Best,
or the company that represents me,
those guys have just done a tremendous job
helping me get my flowers out
and getting my flowers above board,
which was a long road, Peter.
I mean, as you know, again,
we've been around each other for a while
and you've helped me come in to be in this environment
of being in talking to people and stuff like that
in this format.
So it's just been an interesting journey, man.
For me to get them to this point,
now to get it all coming out this year,
it's really been, it's cool watching it develop.
I'm literally, I'll be over at Hendrix tomorrow
to go talk to those guys about what's coming up in May
just down the road as things are starting to come out
for people to get access to.
Again, if you're in California
and you have access to Hendrix Farms
and you can find Hendrix Farms online very easily,
but if you have access to Hendrix Farms genetics,
you'll be able to find, you know, DRG, Doc Regen,
actually be able to find DRG
in the Hendrix Farms catalog this year.
The black apple, everybody loves that plant so much
that I'm glad it's coming out,
coming out this year for people to have access.
You know, the black apple.
It's delicious.
Well, thank you, brother.
Thank you.
You know, and then the orange cream
that everybody just is gaga over right now too.
So that one, if you have access to that
and you like the orange terpene profile,
brothers and sisters, I highly recommend it.
It's like smoking an orange Julius.
It comes with a warning label.
It is a nighttime flower.
I do not recommend operating heavy machinery
or driving with that plant
because it really kind of grabs you by the boo-boo
and shakes you real hard and makes you sit down.
You know, I did a funny story.
I did a podcast with these guys in Sohum
just a couple of weeks ago with Daniel Hendrix
was sitting in with me on it.
And we were talking genetics
and they got around to smoking that orange cream.
And I warned the host of the show.
I said, be careful with that one, big boy.
And he got into it.
And about three minutes later,
he was dumbfounded for about 20 minutes
and lost his ability to speak and everything.
I thought it was really, really funny.
And I thought was the most funniest part
was Hendrix even warned him.
He said, bro, the old man told you to be careful
when you walked in there to be careful with that.
But anyway, it's just,
this has come to that journey
of where I've been with this thing,
going back to my first interactions back in the early 70s
when I was a teenager in high school
and before I was stupid enough to join the military
during Vietnam and thought I needed to volunteer,
which was just even a dumber thing to do quite honestly,
as I look back at now in hindsight,
but you can't change your past.
You just adapt and move forward.
So I take all those moments and use them now
to help me craft what I'm doing.
And this last two decades has been nothing really
but conscious thought about post-traumatic stress
applications with my flowers.
My blue skunk, which is a 16 year old genetics now,
I'm in a F12 on that plant is just one of those,
what I got to a point where I thought
it was just an old man flower.
It's a blue dream cross that I took with a old Dave,
which is the old Dave is been gone for over 10 years.
Old unknown legend of the triangle
is the creator of the skunk number one,
the humble skunk number one.
And that's Dave, old Dave.
And anyway, the old Dave crossed with the blue dream
is my blue skunk refined over the last decade and a half
of best selection and cross back breeding
and restabilizing it.
And I've stuck a couple of things else into it
over the couple of years to beef it up a little bit.
And what it's refined into now is just a beautiful,
beautiful flower that has tremendous therapeutic qualities
for people that are having a bad day.
It's like you consume the flower
and whatever your preferences of consumption.
And within a few minutes, the cloudiness in your heads
for me personally, it was to get the demons out of my head.
It's like I got a lot of blood on my hands
for my military career and a lot of,
a lot of stuff, just a lot of stuff
that you just wish you could take back,
or you wish you could do it over
and you don't get those choices,
and you can't change that in my veteran community.
I know it kills them because I see it in their eyes
and I hear it in their voices
and I feel it in their hugs and their compassion
that they share with me when I sit down
with this sacred flower and break sacrament with them
and they get relief from it, Peter.
That's why I do it, brother.
That's why I do it, man, right there.
And I love it, my man.
Your intentions are good.
Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
Okay.
Hey, Doc, I've been following you for a while.
I was having a conversation the other day with Shaggy Brown
and I was like, man, I mean,
there's not very many master growers out here.
I'm like, I'm a cultivation educator
and I like to call myself a professional learner.
And Shaggy was like, yeah, he's like,
but there's one out here.
His name is Doc motherfucking Ray.
I'm like, it's very, very true.
And I've been following you for a while
and just listening to all of the things
that you have to say and the utmost respect for you.
Thank you.
I learned from you so much.
On the topic of cannabis breeding and genetics.
Now I've actually never breeded anything in my life.
Can you give me some insight on using colloidal silver?
If...
Sure, you're talking about perfeminizing?
Perfeminizing seeds.
Right, right, right, right, right, right.
That's pretty straightforward stuff.
And once you breed it,
you just come back in with colloidal silver and spray it.
Right, you just spray the bud after it's been dusted
and it keeps the male pollen from setting on it.
It forces the seed females, what it does.
And that's pretty straightforward, old school stuff.
There's some other tricky stuff that people are doing,
but that's pretty standard stuff.
Another thing you can do that, to do that naturally also,
is you can let the flower go longer.
You can let the flower literally like over ripen.
And by letting it over ripen, it will,
the female with the lack of male pollen,
it will try to save itself.
And that's another way to get truly natural feminized seeds
as well.
So, it's something that I don't really practice per se.
I'm an old school, regular seed guy.
This is what I do.
And it's just my methodologies and my practices
are just kind of,
by most people's standards,
probably even a little outdated, sister.
I'm learning a lot of new stuff
being around all these young brothers and sisters
that are doing all this cutting edge shit, quite honestly,
over the last five years of coming above board.
It's like my methodologies are just old, tried and true,
Emerald Triangle way.
And it just kind of what we do.
So, the feminizing stuff and that kind of jazz
is not really our wheelhouse,
but I'm friends with Nat Pennington from Humboldt Seeds
and Dan at Dark Heart.
I know those guys,
it's like they work in that realm
and it's just stuff that I picked up from talking to them,
that kind of jazz.
But yeah, there's a couple of different approaches
that I'm aware of.
The simplest though is colloidal silver spray.
And that's the simplest way that I know
to make feminized seeds by manipulation.
I think if I answered that, hopefully,
hopefully I answered that.
You did.
You did.
I've never tried it myself,
but I've gotten my hands on it.
I heard that you need to have at least 30 PPMs
of the colloidal silver.
And I guess you spray-
That's my understanding as well.
I've heard 25 to 30.
It's exactly the same thing that I've heard as well.
And it's not something that I do.
Just again, it's not my practice,
but I know that a lot of people are doing that now.
So, I don't think you can really mess it up quite honestly.
I mean, even if I'm feminized,
I'll go back on that a little bit.
Even when it's a feminized seed, it's never 100%.
It's gonna be 95 or 99,
or there's always gonna be that one male
out of a hundred seeds that are gonna come up.
It's just the way the thing works.
Anyway, in my experience.
Thanks, Doc.
I appreciate it.
Oh, you bet.
Anytime, sister.
And we have shared a lot of rooms together
and I appreciate you being in this space
north of the border and everything.
Believe me, if I can't get it done,
the old man's gonna be looking for you,
you brothers and sisters north of me
to come abduct the old man
and bring him over the border.
So, anyway.
Oh yeah, I'm here for it.
They piss me off so bad here.
It's like, it's just been such an uphill battle.
And I watch you guys just get,
even as messed up in it,
cause I listened to you guys talk about
how messed up it is there, that whole thing.
But at least you guys are allowed to do it,
and it just breaks my heart to see
that we can't have mom and pop
still be able to cultivate four plants
or six plants if they want to.
It just kills them.
Oh yeah.
I mean, it's such a blessing,
but also again, it's very heavily regulated.
And I had mentioned in one of the other groups
that as Canadians, we can grow,
we can get a license to grow 450 plants
in our fucking backyards.
But now Canada is honing in on that
and they're about to change the rules.
So stay tuned for that.
Yeah, what do they have like a per gram per day,
per person kind of thing?
And then you can be like, I suck at growing,
so I need to grow lots of plants.
Yeah, so basically you get a prescription
and it's quite easily attainable
if you talk to the right consultant
and you can grow X amount of plants on your property.
It doesn't really need to be zoned in all honesty.
As long as it's for personal use, then that's okay.
So for me personally, I have a 30 gram a day prescription
and I can grow 150 plants.
That seemed to be,
that's what the guys I was talking to also,
Sester, was saying the same thing.
They were like in the same round.
One was at 30, the other was at 38
and one was where you were
and the other one was at 180 plants.
So I'm figuring that's kind of where it is.
If they're allowing you an ounce a day,
you can have 150 plants per adult.
Is that basically what it boils down to it sounds like?
Exactly, but yes, that license is only on one property.
But wait, wait, take this in, sorry.
Screw what I just said.
You can actually get four licenses on one property.
So say if four people want to get their 450 plant license,
they can put that all on one singular property
just for personal use.
That's how that used to be here.
And that's exactly how we did it medical after 97
and Mendo was exactly what we did back then
is we got, one person was the caregiver
and then everybody got the,
went and got their prescriptions.
And, but we, there wasn't even a limit.
I mean, at one time I was carrying 27 prescription
when we were running it hard in the late 90s
and early 2000s when we were just,
producing tons of, allegedly producing tons of flower,
you know, in the triangle.
It's like my, our co-op, you know, me and my partner,
we had about right at between 58 and 62
depending on the season permits between the two of us
that we ran and it allowed us to run.
Like I've mentioned in other rooms in this space,
you know, we, our farm was,
we had 225 acres and 1200 holes spread out over 225 acres,
you know, and then over the change after 97,
when we started navigating that space post 215 and 96,
where we started slowly moving clusters of pots together,
you know, like putting 12 on a ridge top together
and patches of 10 here and 15 there.
We did that for, that was not like 97 and 98.
We tested the waters a little bit more
and we were getting flown every damn day too, man.
I mean, that's just, if you've never experienced
being flown by Comet and Camp,
you just quite honestly don't know the sensation of it.
I'm an old airborne paratrooper
and it's the closest adrenaline rush I've ever had
was being flown by Comet and Camp
to my old military airborne days
was about the closest it gets to it quite honestly.
You know, it's like that rush of adrenaline
if you've ever jumped out of a perfectly good airplane,
you know, or bungee jumped or any of those kinds of things
where you put your life out in harm's ways,
that same kind of adrenaline
from being flown by those guys every damn day,
you know, from June to literally, you know,
June, July and August, it was always just, you know,
seven days a week, just flown all the fucking time,
day in and day out, you know,
because diving into the rabbit holes
and ducking under brush and, you know, getting used to it.
I was fortunate enough that when I was doing that
in my thirties, you know, my partner was about my age now
and he was a much older and wiser man
and he helped me navigate the space and not lose my mind
while we were being flown and getting through that.
And I understand it better now
that I'm where my old land partner was at now, you know,
because I'm where he was and I look at those moments
and I think about all those times where those literally,
literally, I don't know, guys, if you ever, you know,
we were sitting at about 1800, between 1800 and 2300 feet
and the fixed wing aircraft men,
and they're literally right out,
you can see the pilot and the spotter, you know,
you can see them and they're looking at you, you know,
they're looking at you through the window
and on the side of your mountain
as they're going to fly by, you know, I mean,
it's a realistic time and space.
And as we got used to it over the next decade
and just watching dealing with that,
it's like every damn day during the season
where you just deal with them,
they're just become part of your routine.
And my old partner, as we agreed,
what we came to agreement was, is we weren't going to run,
we were going to stand our ground
and we were going to play by the rules of the county
and we were just adapting that overcome.
We had a pack where we had put a stash box
up at the top of the mountain
where we had our series of water tanks.
We had 2,500 gallon water tanks
that are pretty good size at the top of this mountain
that we, you know, go pat them up there back in the day.
That's an old school way of getting shit up
to the mountain top.
You know, it wasn't easy to do that kind of stuff back then.
You know, we had, you know, four big tanks up on the top
and our pack was, we were just going to meet up
with the water tanks and just sit there
and get stoned and wait for them to come.
You know, we weren't going to even run
or try and get away from it as he told me,
because I get it now at this stage, I'm his age.
I can't run, youngster, you run if you want to,
but I'm going to sit my ass down here
and smoke and wait for him to get here.
So that's kind of my approach now with this thing, you know.
And for me personally, to be able to come above board
and do it legally and do it in metric.
Now, I mean, Peter, you know, I've got to laugh, man.
And anybody that's in California,
if you've dealt with metric or in your state
that dealt with metric, oh my God, what a nightmare.
But brother, I've got 24 SKUs in California metric now
that all say DRG on them, brother.
That's how busy this old man's been
the last two years, you know.
So to be able to have 24 lines of individual genetics
that are all part of my works in progress
or stuff that I've got permitted
and IP protected coming out,
it's a lot for me to be able to get that in place.
And I feel really, really blessed and humbled
to be able to get that done before I, you know,
before I'm underground, you know.
So I'm thankful for that.
It's important for me to protect my legacy
and for me to help protect the triangle here
and my brothers and sisters here
that are afraid to still do it for themselves.
It's kind of why I'm doing this now, you know.
And he's being quiet because he's letting me talk,
but this guy's been significant in getting me to this point
where you guys are getting to hear me speak
because I wasn't talking two years ago
and it's strictly because of Peter's encouragement
and him working with Breeders Best
and not only being a host in this environment for me,
but I FaceTime with that idiot regularly too, you know.
So he sees me at my best and I see him at his best
and our worst and, you know, we're buddies on top of it.
So I'm thankful for you too, brother,
for, you know, doing this and getting me out
and encouraging me to communicate with people
and, you know, share my story and teach, as you said,
you know, teach heritage and what craft is.
So that's why I'm here, you know,
to share what true craft cannabis is, you know.
Anyway, I appreciate everybody hanging out with us.
I think we all appreciate you as well.
And I think kind of one of the things I've tried to focus on,
you know, I know, for example,
Jordan, a shape shifter behind Freak Show,
it took a while to coax him to kind of come tell his story
and talk and drop knowledge.
But kind of my point to him was,
it's not as much for you as kind of you
through sharing your story
and what you think is important for the rest of us
to influence the decision-making of the people behind you
and to educate them, you know.
I think there are a lot of people doing things the wrong way
and to kind of have you guys come just talk
and people see examples of someone
who's kind of lived their life the right way.
I think that's important.
Dude, I don't even know what to say to that, Peter.
You know, I mean, I, they call me an outlaw
most of my fucking life, brother.
You know, they throw me in prison over this plant,
this sacred thing, you know, back in the mid 80s,
you know, that my 40-year-old son now,
you know, I can't believe I got a 40-year-old son,
but my 40-year-old son, you know,
that took him and his sisters away from me, you know.
And it's like to be at this stage in my life now
and still standing here, I quite honestly,
for the old timers in the space
that are anybody in here listening,
you know, a lot of us,
we never thought we'd ever see this plant
come to this point where it would be legalized.
You know, as I was embracing the plant in 1970,
our country was federally criminalizing it, you know,
and making it where they were gonna throw
fricking people in prison over a plant.
And they got me in the mid 80s, you know.
It just, you know, and there's still get people
every damn day, you know, we hear one more,
you know, I've just read a deal today
about a young guy that's an amputee
and of all places, Alabama,
that just, you know, they took his car,
they took his flower, they took his $6,000,
you know, they confiscated all his stuff
and he's medically disabled, man.
And it's just because of where he happens
to live in this country.
And it's like, it's just ridiculous.
And again, me personally, I get it, man.
I live in fucking Humboldt, man.
I live in Trinity, you know, I work in Trinity.
I live in Humboldt, I grew up in Mendocino.
I got farms all over the fucking place up here,
people that I collaborate with.
It's what we do, you know,
and we paid for it a long, long time ago
for this freedom, this renaissance,
this Aquarian age we're living in
and cannabis in our country before.
This neck of the woods over here
in Northern California, brothers and sisters,
we paid for it for decades before.
A lot of you folks were ever in the game
or even thought about being in the game.
We were paying the supreme price for it
with incarcerations and loss of loved ones
and loss of property and people taken away from you
for years at a time and things like that.
So it's been an interesting journey as Peter, as you know.
And so for me to take my craft and my life
and let other people have it,
I had to do it to a way that I felt I could protect
my legacy and my family before I let them out,
which is why I patented everything
and why it's all protected, you know?
And I know that pisses a lot of the open source people off
because that's a plan and you shouldn't do that.
Well, you don't say anything to a recording artist
or a painter when they paint a painting,
but a creative person like myself,
when we do something like this,
we can't protect what we've given our life for.
I just find it to be very hypocritical.
So I've taken my approach.
I don't believe that branding alone is gonna work.
I know that trademarks won't work
when you're going up against Monsanto or Coca-Cola
or Budweiser in a fricking lawsuit, man.
They're gonna, you know,
they got million dollar payrolls, lawyers.
We just can't, a small mom and pop like myself,
we can't compete.
So I did what I thought I was the best way to protect myself
after talking to a lot of legal minds in the field
of what the best way to do it was,
especially with my medical cultivars, brother.
I mean, you know it, you've consumed my flowers.
There may be a few people, veterans in this space,
especially my brothers and sisters
that have used my blue skunk, you know, for crying out loud.
It's the one that the damn government's using
for the test guideline, man.
You know what I mean?
It's Dr. Su's request, you know, it's like everybody,
that's the plant that everybody is referencing
for their guideline,
for their fucking post-traumatic stress test
for the fricking VA, man.
You know, who would thought that?
I would have never thought that 16 years ago
more than a man in the moon, man.
You know, when Lynn Ryan gave me her blue dream female
and said, here old man,
here's something to keep you from going crazy.
Do something with it.
And I started tinkering with it in 2005 and six.
I was just to keep my mind from going nuts, you know?
So to be where it's sitting now with that plant,
that's out and going into the possibly, I can't,
dude, can you even, I mean, this is blows me away.
I'm just thinking, man,
my plant could actually be administered to the VA,
to my brothers and sisters in arms, man.
I'm just tickled to death to see that
that might be fucking happening, man.
It's just like the coolest damn thing, V.
That would be amazing.
It would be amazing.
I love it.
Doc, I'm a new fan of yours.
I was not.
This is Jason, by the way.
Yeah, hi, how you doing?
Let Doc know who he's talking to.
Yeah, how you doing?
I'm Jason, also known as Hota Herb.
I'm out here in Massachusetts.
I'm a home grower and educator
and try to help people learn to grow
and grow their own cannabis.
I've done a lot of work with helping veterans
out here in New England,
primarily the New England Veterans Alliance.
I helped a bunch of,
we actually put together a program
where we raised money to get full grow tents
and kits for five disabled veterans
and put them into a program where they learned how to grow
from seed to harvest with another veteran teaching them.
And they all just,
they're all growing still.
They all learned so much.
They got so much out of it,
not just getting the equipment,
which they definitely deserved,
but they got so much out of the fact
that it's legal here in Massachusetts and you can grow it.
So there's no stress associated with growing it.
You can grow six plants per person
or 12 per household here in Massachusetts.
So there is no stress associated.
They weren't doing anything wrong
and they got the benefit of growing something,
which is incredibly therapeutic, tremendously beneficial,
especially when it's something
that you can use as a medicine, right?
To be able to nurture something alive.
It's the reason I do it, brother.
It's my whole reason for 50 years
is that what you said,
there's something nurturing about putting your hands
in the soil and planting it and growing it
and harvesting it and then sitting down
and consuming it at the end and you get that benefit of it.
Yeah, I wanted to ask you, Jason, first off,
thank you, brother.
I appreciate what you do for the veteran community.
Do you work with the veteran seed bank
that's in your state there?
You work with Bruce and those guys?
Occasionally I have worked with them, yeah.
All right, all right.
I was just making sure.
You'll love this.
I literally just took you guys,
because it's them.
You know, I got my Marine Raider buddies, right?
My Marine Raider buddies just sent me male pollen
from Tora Bora, the Tora Bora mountain range.
And my buddy Daniel Hendricks at Hendricks Farm,
Peter, we just threw it on the heirloom Jaeger, man,
which is just like, nobody hasn't seen that
in frickin' forever.
So seeds will be coming out, Jason.
Seeds will be coming out this fall on that one, man.
Yeah, it's just cool how this thing is happening.
Yeah, but I love that you do,
and I wanna repeat what Peter said
and some of the other things you've heard,
which is you need to tell the stories, right?
We all need to come out of the closet.
I'm not quite as old as you, but I'm 50, right?
I'm a gray beard.
I learned to grow in the early, late 80s, early 90s
and in Florida, and it wasn't a safe place.
It was a very scary and dangerous experience.
And a lot of us come to the industry one way or another,
and I was fortunate enough where I moved out
of the industry and moved into technology
and doing some other things,
but it was something that was always a part of me.
I always remained a smoker.
I spent 35 years enjoying the plant
before I could actually enjoy it legally, right?
So I get what you're saying, man.
I'm blown away.
I'm thankful every day that for the first time in my life,
I don't have to be an outlaw because I love this plant.
And I love sharing that.
So I appreciate folks like yourself who have been doing it,
who have been through a lot more than I have,
but have also been part of it and sharing that experience
and talking about it as important
and coming out of the closet
and talking about these stories
that isn't just a crime drama,
that isn't just some ridiculous movie
that might've been out there, right?
These are true stories, right?
These are real things that happen to real people.
And that's important.
That's how we continue this culture
and develop this community going forward
is sharing these legacy stories.
And I really appreciate you helping continue that.
I appreciate you helping continue
to get that stuff out there and talk about this plant,
share this plant with all of us.
And I congratulate you on your patents
and you'll be hearing from me or seeing me more,
I'm sure, through Instagram and stuff.
So thank you again.
But I appreciate you, your kind words, Jason.
And honestly, I know that people say it all the time,
but the fact that you make a place
for the veteran community and the work,
it carries a lot of weight with me, man.
Because that's really what,
it's the reason why I'm doing what I'm doing
is I feel so compelled to do this.
It's beyond words, honestly.
It affects me at my core, quite honestly.
It's like when I got my flowers out here
about five years ago, I was letting stuff go down to SoCal.
And this is what the journey was.
It's like, I didn't really get it.
I was just sending gifts out
and then all of a sudden I'm getting feedback
and it didn't really register.
Then I started making trips down there
and I was hanging out and I was seeing what was happening
and I couldn't really put words into it,
but I knew what I was seeing was the same thing
that it gave me when I sit down and having a bad day
or not having a bad day.
Just when I sit down and take my break,
it's like I'd sit down and get that relief from my plant
and them giving me the same reaction
and literally having men and women,
these are grown ass men and women, man.
They're fucking warriors.
They've been in and out of combat.
They've been in shit that a lot of civilians
quite honestly can't imagine.
If you haven't made that commitment
and signed with a blank check on your life
for some period of time when you service to your country
as a civilian, you have no right to judge
and you sure as well damn well better be appreciative
of the freedoms that you take for granted
because of those veteran brothers and sisters
that are in distress around you.
It's tremendous.
It's not just, and we highlight aspects of it, right?
We highlight PTSD and we highlight trauma,
but we don't highlight the basic aches and pains
that are caused by carrying around 70 to 100 pounds
of equipment for days and months
and possibly years at a time.
Or the-
Raw, baby.
Right?
Or the, you know, that destroys your spine
and your hips and your knees and you have arthritis
and pains in your joints and all those things.
We don't talk about the concussions
that are caused by firing heavy military weaponry.
When you fire a tank gun or when you fire big ammo,
you're causing concussions to your head.
You're causing trauma to your brain.
The recoil is tremendous.
Yeah, people don't understand the recoil.
I've been, I was blown up once breaching a doorway
and blown up another time as a vehicle exploded
about 30 yards from me when we were in the middle
of a close quarter fight and it knocked me down
in a piece of shroud and it hit me in my left leg
and it knocked me unconscious, you know?
And I woke up in a heightened state of adrenaline rush,
you know, and you don't even really realize you're damaged
until after the fact, many, many hours after the fact
that you realize you're damaged, you know?
And it's just-
Absolutely.
That explosion was just, well, it rang my bell
in my ears and, you know, and now as an old man,
I mean, I've got on high dollar earbuds
so I can hear this conversation, you know?
Thank you to my wife that's technically hip
and make sure that I have the right kind of gear
to communicate, you know, now,
but I can't hear shit anymore, you know?
And I'm 100% rated and 60% of that's my ears, you know,
which means I'm a deaf old man, you know?
So I have to use this type of automation
in order to be in the conversation anymore, you know?
So-
Yep, yep.
Right, you know what I mean?
It's just in the blowing up part, people don't get it, man.
And you don't even have to be that,
just impact from bouncing around in a Humvee all day long.
And you don't have to be in a Humvee, man.
You're in the triage unit as my blown up ass comes in
and you have to put us back together
while we're unconscious.
There's that damage from that visual that you took,
you know, it's just-
Absolutely.
Anyway, this is why the deal for me
for my flowers being protected
so that my veteran community will never have it taken away
because that's what my fear is,
is when big pharma specifically realizes
that this is something that this specific combination
of terpenes has this, and it's a multitude of terpenes.
This is just the terpene diversity
in that particular genetics is about 37 combinations.
Okay, so that particular sequence of combinations
brings tremendous relief to our community, you know?
So this is that part of where it's at with me right now
is I have to make sure that those things are protected
from the evil doers, you know?
And I wanna make sure that my brothers and sisters
that want my plants can go to any,
like I said, right now, if you're in California,
any place where you see Hendrix Farms,
you can request DRG through Hendrix Farms.
You can definitely get them in our area up here this year
right now, man, you know,
he's taking orders for genetics right now.
So my point is, is I can't let that get taken away
when the shift happens with the federal thing
coming in a couple of years.
So that's why I'm on this bandwagon and preaching this
and have for the last three or four years
as I've traversed this space of how to small mom
and pops compete and protect themselves
and brand themselves in this really,
really treacherous industry that we all in now, you know?
And a lot of us old school growers,
we've been in this thing for many decades, you know,
and we come from a different place.
It's not about money.
It never was with me as a matter of fact,
pre 96 brothers and sisters, you couldn't buy my flowers.
It was a gift.
I gave it away.
I did not charge.
It was always about the plant.
It was always about the plant.
Always, always, Jason, always, man, you know,
it's just, it's always been that with me.
It's never been about the money part of it.
I still, to this day, do work with any cancer,
epilepsy, all kinds of trauma, man.
It's like I give someone flower.
It's ridiculous.
You know, we have a program that we have been doing
traditionally in the pipeline to create RSO and FSO
and Phoenix tiers for cancer patients
and people dealing with severe,
severe physical ailments and pain.
We've been doing a pipeline for two decades, brother.
Right?
I mean, yeah.
Can I touch on this for a second?
You know, for me, I'm 27, I'm young,
and I like to call myself cannabis cultivation educator.
I like to teach people what I know.
I worked at a hydroponic store.
I've learned things, okay.
But on my platform, like what I do is I like to make
cannabis fun and I feel like, you know,
sometimes it may be too fun and games,
but then I come on here and I listen to people's,
I listen to what people have to say.
And Doc, I'm sure you've heard about Phil Cannabis
and just like all of the experiences
that people have gone through.
And what I do now is I actually bring these stories
back to my platform and I make sure that people know
what people have gone through.
And on the topic of cancer, there is this woman,
I met her, her name is Michelle Gower,
and she messaged me and she was like,
hey, I wanna learn how to grow.
She told me her story and my page,
my original page is down, whatever.
I had a huge platform and I had a lot of companies
sponsoring me and I'm like this woman,
she reached out to me, please can we sponsor her grow?
So I was able to get her grow lights,
organic nutrients, seeds, pots, living soil,
whatever she wanted.
And now she's growing her own cannabis
and she runs a group now on Clubhouse,
which I told her to do called Cancer, Chemo and Cannabis.
Her name is Michelle Gower.
I'm also an admin of this group.
And it's just coming here and listening
to everybody's stories has just completely changed
my perspective on growing cannabis.
And I just wanted to touch on that
and thank you guys so much, thank you.
Sister, I'll go back to my first
and first time was with my own mother,
with my own deal with my own mother,
with her own breast cancer, with a double mastectomy.
And I was her primary caregiver of all times,
literally as I got out of prison
when she was going through all this.
So I was the one that took care of her
and my old hippie ass with her nausea,
we got it dialed down to where she had a quarter
of my brownie as we were getting ready to go
with her coffee in the morning, a quarter of a brownie,
went and did her treatment.
And then when she got out, a quarter brownie after it,
and that's how I started getting into the medical thing.
And that's again, why I referenced it when I put it in there
where my starting point is back in, you know,
now the mid frickin' 80s, I can't even believe it.
So 35, 36 years of being in that thread
of knowing that there was more to this plant
than just it being a recreational high or even worse,
these old time crazy people that still reference it
as a gateway drug, you know,
and it's like, it's just such hypocritical bullshit,
you know, to see all the things that we've done,
to see all the old traditional medicine,
this hippie medicine, you know,
this hill country hippie medicine, you know,
the outlaws that they called us, you know,
for many, many decades,
now being met with scientific medicine
and the scientific data is backing up
what we were getting through peer review.
It's bringing it all full circle for a lot of us,
you know, it's like my guys, men and women saying,
you know, this plant gives me relief,
this plant gives me relief, this plant gives me relief,
and then not having the science,
and then now in the last 36 months,
now I have the science,
and not only do I have the science,
I got the rock stars in the medical end of the deal
representing my gear going, this is the deal.
It's bittersweet, you know, from being incarcerated,
but in the same breath, I'm taking a sigh of relief
going finally, thank you, you know,
there's, are we finally breaking a point
where there's gonna be more logic
than just blind hysteria, so I'm hopeful,
and you know, I'm so hopeful for you,
you got you, you know, you're coming into it
where you're at, you're taking it by the, you know,
by the horns and driving it, man, just, you know,
anything I can do to help you perpetuate the legacy
and keep it going.
On my wish, honest to God, sister,
is that I'm dust, dust back into mother earth
under the plants, and you're an old gray haired lady,
and you're teaching it forward too, you know,
so bless you and thank you for being in the space
with this old man this evening, I appreciate that.
Thank you, and it's just all about
just spreading the information forward.
I'm sorry, Peter, go ahead.
No worries, so Doc, I thought, you know, for me,
one fun thing I think for everyone to hear is
your story of finding your new home,
which is, I assume, happened the past couple,
or couple months, and kind of what you were looking for
and what you finally found.
Oh, right, right.
You know, it's been a long, well, this is,
again, this is part of that,
figuring out what the hell I wanted to do, you know,
I mean, I got, originally just, you know,
I have a cultivators of micro cultivators,
which is basically, that was me retiring,
so I built my little retirement space, you know,
and I've got a bad ass, you know,
from 2000 square foot canopy, man, it's pretty sweet,
but it just can't, I can't ramp it up big enough
to get it to where I need it to be to meet demand,
you know, it's like, what I produce in my,
on my little retirement plot is gone
in a matter of a couple of hours, you know,
when I get it done each year, you know,
so the last couple of years has just been trying
to ramp the damn thing up
and find a space big enough to do it on, you know,
so it's still evolving, it's still growing,
and I haven't gotten it done yet,
because I'm still trying to get the last bit
of the thing across the finish line,
but I'm up to my eyeballs, and, you know,
four different projects now spread out across the straight,
across the state, and actually even over the border
into Nevada, on multiple large canopies,
so, you know, DRG's coming out this way
under a multitude of ways,
the farm that I'm trying to work to buy right now, Peter,
is I'm still trying to get that negotiated, brother,
you know, so it's, I'm hopeful, if I can pull it off,
I will be, I will have a canopy that will allow me
to have an outdoor space right outside of Mad River
on the Van Dusen River,
and it's several hundred acres of land
that's permitted for, you know, for full sun outdoor,
that's what I'm actively trying to close right now,
it is not done, however, you know, it looks pretty good,
so I'm gonna be cautiously optimistic on that,
in the same breath, like I said,
I'm taking over a large space in Carson City, Nevada,
like on the 26th, it's 14,000 square feet,
which is kind of cool,
and I'm in the middle of a project
that will put me down in the middle of downtown Los Angeles,
most likely sometime by May,
and I'm working on a big project
that I've been in on for a couple of months here
that I'm super excited about with Emerald Genetics,
which is the Veterans Coalition Group Alliance
that we've got formed where it's a veterans growers
and everything, and that's a really, really cool,
cool thing that didn't exist in my world even a year ago now
when I'm really thankful for that as well
as the Emerald Genetics Alliance
and the partnership with GI Joints coming out,
you guys will be finding Veterans Choice Cannabis
coming out this year under the GI Joints label
in finer retail locations all across California this year,
which is kind of cool,
and that's a really cool 10,000 square foot indoor
in the Cannabis Innovation Zone that I'm part of as well,
so I've got my hands on a lot of pies right now, Peter,
beyond the big farm, the farm is the goal,
that's been a real brutal, brutal undertaking,
brothers and sisters, just so you guys get it,
you can totally do it in this space,
Good Mofo Farms has privately raised over $5 million,
and I'm just having a heck of a time
letting somebody let me buy their damn cannabis farm
from them, so it's a never ending battle in the triangle,
I have heard from numerous people that are up here
that they are running into the same boat,
so it's just kind of part of what the animal is here,
so a unique position, brother,
it's just been a really, really interesting thing,
so I've worked on multiple fronts to make sure
that I am gonna make sure that my flowers are coming out
through multiple channels
so that it does not miss another year,
and so you guys get it,
I'm gonna even just lay all my cards out on the table,
and see them, I contracted two professionals
the previous two years with large,
multi-thousand square foot canopies
to produce my flowers for me on a larger scale,
and they couldn't grow more flowers
off of their big ass canopies
than the little old man could by himself
off of his little canopy,
so I realized they can't fucking do it,
I'm gonna have to do it myself,
so that's what I've been trying to accomplish
for two damn years,
and I have literally, like I said,
I've tried to buy three large properties,
and I'm talking multiple million dollar farms
in Humboldt County,
and can't get one of them to sit down to the table,
not quite sure what the hell the deal is,
so I've engaged another one,
and just outside of Mad River,
again, trying to get it across the board,
but until it's signed, sailed, and delivered, brother,
it isn't technically mine,
so I'm not relying on that,
and I'm looking at multiple options,
and I've asked numerous people
to help me spend the 5 fucking .4 million dollars
that I have raised on a farm,
and I have no idea.
Please take my money, please take my money.
Jason, I am just blown away, bro,
I am just completely freaking floored, so.
Well, they're not making any more land, unfortunately,
right?
Yeah, it's what it is,
and here's part of my conundrum,
and kind of kicking myself,
because I thought when I first started it,
and I just got my cultivator's license,
and I thought, well,
because I've done it before,
and I didn't want,
I have done that,
like I left 225 acres that was built out,
I'd get 160 acres that was built out.
I've done this two other times,
where big tracts of land require
a tremendous amount of time,
blood, sweat, and tears, and energy,
so I was willing to pay for that,
so I went out and raised the funds privately
with my IP, my branding, and everything else,
building good mofo,
with the intentions that I could buy a farm
over the last year and a half,
and come in and just buy a couple million dollar farm,
where the permitting, and metric,
and all that was in place,
versus me building it one more fucking time
from the ground up,
because I'm an old man,
and I'm almost kicking myself
that I just didn't go buy the raw 60 to 80 acres,
and have done it,
because I think I may have already had it done by now,
and I wouldn't still be banging my head against a wall.
You know, I've got a really, really good partner
that Jeff is a dear, dear friend,
and loves me to death,
and he was like, oh man,
I'm just so tired of you banging your head
against the wall on this thing,
you've taken enough brain damage, you know,
so I'm actively,
you know, like I said,
I'm actively in the middle of four,
four other projects,
plus this big farm project,
so there's a lot of things going on,
and then I'm even doing a branded deal
between me and Hendrix,
with Good Mofo,
and DRG specifically,
with some really good craft growers here in the triangle
that do small runs on private label stuff
coming out as well for this fall,
so I will not be defeated,
I'm gonna continue to push forward on it,
I'm wishing that I could have told you Peter,
that it was closed,
but it's not closed brother,
and I'm sorry to say that I'm still working
to try to get that to that point,
so anyway.
Well we'll hopefully have good news soon.
So actually, just quickly,
there's some people who jumped in here,
who, I don't know,
DB, why don't we start with you,
did you have either a comment or a question?
Yeah, Doc, I really appreciate your stories,
sort of sounds,
well I know you've been through a lot,
and those memories,
some are good I hope,
and then I know some are probably terrifying to you,
so I know that plant,
the plant definitely has helped you through your past
as well as your mom,
and it's awesome to hear that
you're finally turning the corner,
and you're getting these opportunities moving forward,
and it's just amazing to me,
I came up here to ask you a question about a strain,
but after hearing you talk,
and explaining your stories and stuff like that,
to me it doesn't really matter,
those times that you were getting buzzed
probably brought back memories
from war and stuff like that,
when they were buzzing you for the plant,
and you're just like,
I can't believe they're doing this to me,
I'm just trying to make my way
and produce a quality plant,
so I really appreciate what you're doing, your time,
I wanna get into the cannabis industry here in Colorado,
so that's one of my goals,
I've been growing for a while myself,
soil, I don't believe in the hydro,
so I just really appreciate it,
maybe someday I can meet you.
I'm gonna be,
actually, in Denver,
I'm in Denver in the traditional market,
but I do get to Colorado,
not as often as I should,
but that's probably gonna change
now that the world's started moving a little bit,
so that may not be too far out of realm of possibility,
brother,
as far as genetics goes,
that's just a,
I was going through seeds,
it's that time of the year,
it's that time of the year,
so I got my seed box out,
so I'm going through all my land race stuff,
and I'm looking at my old building block stuff,
and the things that I've been working on
for a couple of years,
and Peter's got some new stuff,
some tinker projects,
and me and a buddy of mine
have been planning on some full spectrum stuff
that's really cool,
that's to give some other people some chance
to get their hands on some things
that they've never gotten their hands on before,
much less ever seen or heard of
some of these cool combinations,
so that's the reason why I do this,
honest to God,
that's the reason why I've always done it,
I started back in 72
with my first patch,
because I thought I'd always been a gardener,
we grew up poor,
so we raised our own vegetables,
we had gardens and stuff,
we grew our own food,
we raised livestock,
we hunted, we fished,
we did that kind of thing as our family,
it's part of who I am,
so I always did that,
and my grandmother would be considered
a garden maven,
organic diva,
because the things that she did
with oyster sale and coffee grounds
back then that people just didn't
even quite honestly get,
was that she instilled that green thumb thing in me,
as a little boy,
being around her as a little boy at four and five,
and as a young boy,
my first recollections of being in a garden with her,
so that's kind of how this plant's always been around me,
and my rambling is,
I've always smoked my own flower,
and I started that way,
like a lot of home cultivators do,
I grew the flower so that I could grow my own flower,
because quite honestly,
what I was smoking had seeds in it,
and it just wasn't really that appealing,
and I just figured,
let me see what I can do with the damn thing,
so that's how I got started in it,
and over those decades,
I've realized what a divine, sacred,
holy plant it truly is,
and in my own personal journey as being,
and I don't wanna get off on this topic at all,
but this is just part of my personal journey,
because I was raised in a very born again,
charismatic environment,
where this plant was demonized and ostracized,
and I literally was in a church growing up,
where I was thrown out of the community
at about 16 to 17 over this plant,
and had people putting their fucking hands on me,
praying over me to get the devil out of me,
over this plant,
and that was part of my enduring,
of what I've endured with this plant the whole time,
is walking it,
it just, what do you do, brother,
and I'm only gonna say this to this,
ladies and gentlemen,
is I have walked away from this plant,
numerous times over the 51 years,
I left in 05,
I couldn't stand it anymore the last time,
you know, the time before that,
because of circumstances with a marriage,
but it's still in life circumstances,
that changed me one more time,
where I walked away from it,
you know, and just the last time in particularly,
and it's between 03 and 06,
when I said I can't do well,
in 03, and again, my partner and I,
we're pretty good,
and that old man and I, man,
you know, 1200 holes,
and we brought in just close to 3,400 pounds of flower,
between me and my old land partner,
and in 03, the market was crashing like crazy,
because of September the 11th of 01,
still the market was still reeling from that,
and the prices were plummeting from five to $6,000 a pound,
to below $3,000 a pound in 2003,
now, most cultivators now,
their eyes fall, go big as saucers,
and their jaws hit the ground,
when they hear three grand a pound,
because nobody gets that, right?
Well, that's just what it was,
when you were an Emerald Triangle cultivator,
and you were good at what you craft,
that's what our flowers demanded,
and warranted, and that's where it used to be at,
so we were navigating a collapsing market,
with an overabundance of flower,
and we're literally losing thousands of dollars,
every damn month,
well, after two years of getting rid of it all,
and watching the market collapse,
and being insulted numerous times in that two years,
smart aleck kids,
thinking they knew what the hell,
they were doing with my plant,
I said, fuck it,
and got on my Harley,
and rode off,
and I rode down to Big Sur,
with a bunch of course,
my hippie friends growing weed down in Big Sur,
and I'm down there for two months,
and I'm the damn cultivator in the greenhouse,
growing weed in Big Sur,
and I was like,
I still can't get away from the plant,
so I get on my Harley,
and I rode off out into the desert,
and I'd be damned if I'm not out in the desert,
outside of San Bernardino,
and I'm growing fucking flower in a warehouse,
man, and it's like,
it's just this path,
and I kept on moving across the country,
and I literally was in the middle of the Ozarks,
and I'm running around with a bunch of outlaws,
up in the mountains,
up in the Ozarks,
and we're growing,
of course, we're growing flower everywhere up there,
a couple of warehouses in a house,
and I got run off the road on my Harley,
and it kind of,
damn near killed me one more time,
and I woke up in the hospital,
and before I knew it,
I'd be back out here on the West Coast,
because I wasn't supposed to be alive anymore,
and family was like,
well, if you're gonna die,
we're taking you home,
and it's my 40 year old,
will say,
you can't kill that old man,
he says,
you can't kill him,
so I'm gonna keep on going, Peter,
so I've been back at it for over a decade now,
steady at it,
just keep plugging away,
and keep doing what I'm doing,
but this time it's with a conscious choice
of making sure that my genetics are protected,
I'm building a brand,
and I'm taking my time to navigate the space legally,
so that I can protect what I'm doing,
for this is a legacy thing,
I've got four grown children,
my oldest daughter,
who is a career veteran,
is just about to wrap up her 20 years,
told me she has a lot of intention,
to coming in back to helm my company for me,
I've got grandchildren,
and a whole nine yards,
and as my 40 year old son said to me just recently,
old man,
you've done this my entire life,
it's about damn time,
so it's why I did what I've done,
over the last four years,
anyway.
Or your life,
I mean,
I was gonna say that's,
I mean,
your whole life,
that's brought you to this place,
and so I really appreciate what you're doing,
because it's tough to keep,
quality going,
and that's what you've been doing,
over time you've been learning,
and developing,
and keeping everything put together,
and I'm glad that you're able to,
move forward,
and I'm hoping that you do get that,
that farm,
in Mad River,
that'd be awesome.
Doc sorry when you said it Harley,
I'm going Harley Sue in my,
in my tent right now,
so I was like tripping up for a second,
and I just wanna say for all the people that are listening,
Mr. Doc,
there with the beautiful beard,
please follow him,
he has so much information,
Peter thank you for hosting this room,
the future cannabis project,
click that little greenhouse on the top,
there's a lot of information from all of these people,
and thank you Doc,
I love you so much.
I got a question,
Doc if you,
you may have said it already,
and I you know just maybe in my medicated state right now,
Hey Ryan good to see you brother,
thanks man,
question is,
you know I know the plant at the time was,
no illegal or what now you wanna call it,
but you know why were you running,
why were you trying to get away from the plant,
you know with your love for the plant,
why were you trying to get away?
Broken hearted Ryan a lot of it you know,
I mean honestly the 03 to 06,
was really a really tough time man,
you know it was like just that time,
and what we were enduring in the area here,
and Mendocino where I was at more specifically,
in Northern Mendo at the time,
what we were enduring at the time during there,
what we were putting up with,
the market was literally collapsing around us,
I mean literally brother I watched it go from like I said,
we went from literally overnight from five grand a pound,
to three grand a pound,
to two grand a pound,
nothing changed with what we were doing,
this was pre light debt man,
you know it's 3000 damn hours,
it starts in the middle of February where we were at,
and you get done,
and when you get done hopefully by Halloween,
you know you're in the barn at least in the cure,
and the buildings working knocking it all down,
we still weren't out in the field,
and anybody I challenge you just do the math,
on the amount of hours,
and that's seven days a week from sunrise to sunset,
a lot of times it starts before sun comes up,
and many times it goes well until the wee hours,
of the morning when you're in the harvest time,
so for me it was just I was brokenhearted,
by a lot of things that was happening,
and then I was watching the market collapse,
and I just didn't have the heart to do it anymore,
I just wanted to take a break,
and why I'm gonna,
I'll come back to that,
why I know this is my path,
everywhere I went I couldn't get away from it,
and even when I was hurt,
I'm with an ex-wife,
there's an even another wife,
when I got hurt I literally couldn't walk,
I mean I had my left eye knocked out of my head,
my left jaw,
my face I have an orbital socket blowout,
and a crack in my jaw where I broke my jaw,
my Harley landed on my right side,
it crushed my right side of my body,
it broke my right wrist,
dislocated my hip,
and fractured my right knee,
I destroyed my outside of my right kneecap,
I had to learn to walk and talk all over again,
severe one more fucking brain injury,
so for me it was just like,
when I was recovering everywhere I went,
I literally was in the community where I was recovering at,
and every place I was walking,
just trying to walk and learn to function again,
people kept asking me about the sacred plant,
man and I even looked at my ex-wife,
and I said do I have weed grower tattooed on my forehead,
or something,
you know it's like everybody,
everybody and by the time I left that community,
where I crashed that I didn't know,
swing and soul one in that community,
when I crashed,
when I left after about three years of recovery,
I knew thousands of people in that community,
and 90% of them used the plant,
you know and I was literally,
had gone back into the,
one more time,
here's the point,
one more time I had gone back into,
love this story,
I went back into indoor cultivation,
and I'm cultivating with the grandmother of the community,
and we're blowing it up at the bottom level,
of her big ass house,
man and we're holding full on functions upstairs,
and nobody knew that it was me and grandma blowing,
we were the where all the fire,
and the talent was coming from was grandma,
hell yeah,
yeah so,
it's just you know,
it's just part of the journey you know,
and then like when after I got hurt,
and I was really,
really sick,
and my current partner and wife,
she had the foresight and the wisdom,
to look at me and say,
if you're gonna,
if you're,
if you are dying,
I'm gonna take you home,
and we moved back,
you know she took as a corporate person,
and corporate job and brought me back here,
you know and that's kind of what got me to back,
to where I am now you know,
but like I said for this last 11 years,
that's just been me working with this plant,
and figuring out what I was gonna do,
and if was I even gonna get back into the game,
and when I started thinking about it,
I'm just was gonna be a cultivator,
you know I went and got my basic little cultivation thing,
so I could grow flowers legally,
and that whole deal and I realized,
it wasn't gonna keep up with it,
as soon as I started letting it out,
and I've literally been working on,
ramping up that footprint the entire time,
and to no avail,
and have done all the other parts,
but that one last part,
you know and it's just is what it is,
I've gotten numerous ways around it this year,
regardless of what happens with that farm in Trinity,
you know I want that to materialize,
I think it's a beautiful opportunity for me,
for Good Nofo,
and for the whole thing of what my vision is,
but if it doesn't happen there,
that's fine,
I've already again like I said,
I'm in three indoor operations,
either 100% control,
and 50-50 partners,
and three huge indoors,
so this old man's got flower coming out,
all over the place,
it just may not be full sun,
Emerald Triangle this year,
so anyway,
which that just is what it is,
if I've learned anything,
it just is what it is.
Well I think it'd be fun,
to kind of,
so you sent me a whole bunch of seeds,
and I thought it'd be fun,
to kind of walk through,
some of the lines in the backstory,
and kind of what your intention was,
so do you want to,
like I'm looking at the Susie Q,
cross with the Afghan Columbian.
I'm walking,
I'm getting my list man,
I knew you were going to do this to me,
I knew you were going to fucking do this to me,
let me get my list out here,
see and you guys,
y'all think it's funny man,
especially young guys man,
give it three decades,
if I'm still around,
I'm just going to give y'all shit so much,
when you get in your 60s man.
Actually while you're pulling that out,
can you talk about,
you were talking about it's seed popping season,
and can you talk about,
what you did decide to run this season,
and kind of why?
Sure, sure, sure,
well I'm running the one that you had limited,
the only one that got it was you,
was the Malawi Gold Mango,
I got to redo that one,
because that's going to be your quest,
so I'm rerunning that this year,
I got one that I have not let anybody have access to,
that I'm going to be running some of those this year,
which is a mango cross,
Raselberry Mango Cross,
that I've been playing with for a couple of years,
and then one that I hadn't run for two years,
that I've got a request for,
is an orange cookies cross,
that I did a while back,
that I'm going to be running that again this year,
as well as the blue scamp will be seed runner that,
a seed runner the black apple kush,
there'll be a seed runner the orange cream frost as well,
and a Fino hunt of that one more time,
for another stabilization.
So just quickly,
you're going to make the black apple kush available,
in seed form?
If my patent company gives me the go ahead,
they're frowning on it bro,
I mean they're frowning on it,
I mean I got a big old bag of seeds here,
I'm just going to be doing it for myself,
because that's just how I do it,
but I got to navigate that space,
I mean for me to let clones out,
and for me to let flowers out,
their perspective is,
is they can still kind of keep control of it,
and as soon as I let the seeds out of the,
I mean the stuff that's not patented dude,
you get cracks at all that jazz,
I've never let anybody have access to this gear,
I've let you have personally have access to everything,
that's just,
it's just one of those things Peter,
I've got to protect the ones that I've got patented,
the ones that I don't have patented,
I'm letting the stuff that I'm not overly protective of,
letting those out,
that like the ones that I'm let out this last stuff,
all the CBD rich crosses that Brian and I did together,
that's what this stuff is,
was to help get some of his gear out,
and get it into the hands of people
that are asking for true,
one to one, two to one, three to one, five to one,
whatever it winds up being as they work through them,
because that gear has all got to be worked through,
like you mentioned that Susie Q cross for example,
that Susie Q,
that's an Afghan Columbian Mexican cross man,
that fricking the good,
you mean that green mountain growers brother,
that's off of our farm from 40 fucking years ago bro,
yeah, that's like real deal,
and the Susie Q is just a,
that's a tried and true high CBD,
like in the 12 to 15% range CBD,
so we're taking a rockstar double land race,
crossing it with a rockstar CBD full medical,
and letting people have access to it,
before I've done anything,
and I'm not searching any of this stuff,
you know what I mean Peter,
I'm not searching it,
we're not pheno hunting it,
we're just letting raw seeds go out to you guys,
letting you send it out to the people,
so that people can have access to it,
they gotta do all the legwork still,
and they gotta pheno hunt it,
and determine which one they wanna do,
you know, and like what I told you,
now this next run of all that stuff that I did,
Brian and I did two and three years,
and four years ago,
those that group of seeds,
that's going out with you right now,
this stuff that I'm getting ready to pop,
because I'm gonna pop every bit of the stuff,
that I sent you,
I'll be popping all those,
now I'm gonna pheno hunt those runs,
pick out what I'm working with,
and back for you,
that you won't see a version of what I gave you ever again,
it's gonna change,
you know, so this is that cool moment in time,
for anybody that's getting access,
to any of this private reserve stuff,
that I'm releasing,
is you're getting stuff that I'm actively working with,
it's just not gonna be exactly what I take to the market,
you know, it'll be a cousin of what I take to the market,
if that makes sense,
does that make sense?
It does to me.
All right, all right.
It does to me as well.
Yeah, for sure, for sure.
Yeah, no worries.
For sure.
You know, and I think,
and that's beautiful,
that's wonderful,
I mean, really getting,
spreading alternate genetics out to the market,
to help refresh and replenish,
and add different types of genetic variables,
to the market is very positive,
you know, we need less of breeding the same hype stuff,
over and over again.
Bro, Jason, dude, please run that down, man,
name one damn goddamn thing,
that's not crossed with a Girl Scout,
in the last 10 fucking years,
other than my gear, man.
Everything that's runs,
or a wedding cake,
or cookies,
or gelato,
which is huge now,
and I do appreciate those strains, right?
I do appreciate them,
but I'm concerned,
just like there was a effort to chase,
very high THC strains for a while,
we lost a lot of terpene genetic material,
because people only grew the stuff,
that was very high THC.
It's the same thing with hype strains,
if people keep crossing the same genetic material,
it thins the gene pool,
you know, it's why you don't marry,
and have children with your sister,
or your cousins,
A, it's gross,
and B, it's bad for the genes,
that's what killed the Russian czars,
they got hemophiliac children,
who couldn't bleed,
or they died.
So, you know,
this is what's happened with tomatoes,
commercial tomatoes,
they bred the flavor out of tomatoes,
over a couple of decades,
because everybody wants the same,
perfect round red tomato,
that meets some ideal category,
that'll be picked off the shelf,
by picky consumers.
And so, I'm afraid of the same thing happening in cannabis,
and if we don't breed these other things,
you know, I love that Todd McCormick,
is bringing back,
you know, old Northern Lights five stock,
and old skunk one stock,
from seeds from, you know,
early nineties,
that he was given from,
you know, Neville,
and other folks,
that he's recrossing those,
and releasing that genetics,
those genetics back,
the land race stuff,
folks like yourself,
in the triangle,
who've bred these plants,
that have adapted,
over decades,
to meet criteria,
and conditions,
that need to be brought back,
into the general population,
so other people can do stuff with that.
But of course,
there's always gonna be,
that breeders cut,
right?
That is a specific cut selected,
you know,
just like Kevin Jodry,
has released cuts of stuff,
from Wonderland nurseries,
that are just,
this is his black lime reserve,
there's a whole bunch of crosses,
out there right now,
with black lime reserve,
from that Wonderland cut,
was an amazing cut of that plant,
but there's thousands of variants,
of that plant out there,
it just happens to be the one,
that got famous,
and got bred,
and got spread.
So yeah,
I do appreciate that greatly,
for those that are newer,
to cannabis and breeding,
and things like that,
you know,
genetics,
you can't shy away from genetics,
anytime you put a male,
with a female,
you get half the genetics,
from the male,
and half the genetics,
from the female,
to make the child.
That's why no two children,
are exactly alike,
that's why no two,
you know,
no animals,
bred by a,
you know,
by a pair,
are exactly the same,
in every litter,
there's variants,
due to nature,
and so it's the same thing,
with a pack of seeds,
so if you have,
one seed,
or 10 seeds,
or a thousand seeds,
or 10,000 seeds,
every one of those plants,
is gonna be slightly different,
and depending on how mature,
the breeding process was,
behind those seeds,
the variance,
is either gonna be,
a huge variety,
a really great variety,
or it's gonna be a much smaller,
set of tendencies,
that the plant was specifically bred for,
over several generations.
I was gonna say,
I was gonna say real quick,
that strain that I was talking about,
that I was gonna mention,
my favorite strain is,
is the Northern Lights,
and I can't find it.
Look overseas brother,
yeah look,
look overseas man.
AG Seed Co.
In the US,
AG Seed Co.
Todd McCormick,
he's has Northern Lights 5,
that is from,
that whole Netherlands set,
from the,
you know late 80s,
early 90s time period,
and like I said,
he's got Original Haze,
and Skunk One,
and Northern Lights 5,
that he's been selling on his site,
I don't know if he still has any,
of the Northern Lights 5,
but he is definitely doing a few lines with that,
and that is definitely,
probably a rel,
you know a very trustworthy source,
for that plant,
but there is a lot of Northern Lights 5,
crosses out there right now,
I just grew one,
which was a Banana OG cross,
with Northern Lights,
which is really tasty and delicious,
none of the Northern Lights Pine though,
that's kind of what I was looking for,
but it's out there,
it's out there,
I don't know if you'll find,
if you have some,
and I think Doc can probably talk to this right,
things that you remember from 20 years ago,
you probably will never find again,
because your memory of them has changed,
and the genetics that existed at that time,
are unlikely to be the same genetics,
that you actually came across.
So.
I had a quick question for the group,
Jason you were talking a lot earlier,
about the genetic variants,
and how even if you cross,
even if you cross two plants,
the resultant seeds,
could all produce slightly different plants,
and so I was just wondering,
what it takes to get to the point,
where that's no longer the case,
and you can find seeds,
that will produce consistent phenotypes,
because I know that's how,
I'll take that one brother,
I'll take that one,
because that's what I do,
yeah that's what I do.
Okay this is that process,
of getting it beyond an F1,
okay so now what Jason was talking about,
so we're reducing the variables,
and I call this best trait selection,
that's my verbiage for it,
so whatever you decide,
you have to come up,
now this is all personal preference also,
most people,
the preference is basically the same,
they want big ass buds,
sticky resiny buds,
as big as they can get them,
as close staffed as you can,
get them on the stem,
so that's what a breeder,
what we're all breeding for,
I'm gonna use the one,
that I've got the longest,
because it's an F11,
and I'll go back to what Jason says,
once you get about an F4 or 5,
the variable from genetics,
from phenotype to phenotype,
starts getting really,
really small at this point,
okay the variances in the plant,
so like with my blue skunk for example,
this seed stock,
I already know it comes in at about 70% female,
so if I'm putting 10 seeds down,
I'm gonna get seven girls,
I'm gonna get three boys,
out of those three boys,
I'm gonna watch all three of them grow,
which male shows its little balls the quickest,
who's the tallest,
who has the best purple tones on its,
braxes, branches and leaves,
who has the dank smell,
that replicates the skunk smell,
that I want in the plant,
that's my best trait selections,
that I'm picking out of my boy,
because that's gonna be my pollen variable,
and the whole mix right there,
this is critical,
that we're most breeders,
where we make our main decisions,
is on which boy we're gonna use,
to pollinate against our girls,
because now I've got my row of seven girls,
that are all basically the same,
I'm gonna go back in and pick my queens,
out of that row of seven girls,
the same basic best trait selection,
comes into play at this point,
which girl showed her flower the quickest,
who showed pre pistols the fastest,
who's the tallest,
who's the chunkiest,
who's the dankest smell,
who has the best color structure,
who is holding the,
do I want this plant to be short and stocky,
do I want it to be tall and lanky,
is this indoor,
is this outdoor,
is this greenhouse,
all these things play variables,
into this F2,
three, four and five development,
now when you get past,
like I said,
you get to about F4 to F6,
your gear is pretty stable at this point,
you're usually down to one dominant phenotype,
with maybe a secondary,
pheno popping out periodically,
okay,
which is cool,
cause you're to a point now,
where you've read this thing down to where,
what I call it,
cookie cutter replicatable,
which is what my blue skunk is,
like I said,
you run my blue skunk out now,
10 seeds,
seven girls,
three boys,
they're gonna all be about the same damn height,
they're all gonna be about the same damn width,
they're all gonna finish out at about,
seven to eight feet tall outdoors,
they're all gonna finish in late October outdoors,
in an indoor environment,
they're a little bit tall,
but they finish in 63 days,
okay,
so these are all part of that developing your strain,
to or excuse me,
your genetics to a stable enough point,
where it's replicatable by seed,
this is why I said all this long wittiness to say this,
and what Jason alluded to earlier,
now, when you go and look for genetics,
if you can't find it in seed stock,
it means it's not any farther than an F1,
or an F2 at the very best,
okay,
so this is always a good way for a home consumer,
a home cult innovator to know,
for example,
you can find the blueberry clone,
you can find blueberry seeds,
blueberry has been around for 40 fricking years,
you can't necessarily go find seeds for wedding cake,
why?
Because wedding cake is a hybrid F1,
and that's just the truth of the matter,
so anyway,
I hope that answered your question Harris,
if I got a little bit off a topic,
but I think maybe I answered what you were asking.
Oh, thank you,
that was yeah,
that was very helpful,
just a quick follow up,
we've been talking a lot about phenotype,
but in terms of chemotype,
how consistent is that across F1s or F2s,
or do you still need to get to F4,
five, six hybrids before the chemotype is gonna be stable?
For me,
well, yeah,
you're in the same room,
I mean,
as you start tightening your genetic variances up
a little bit,
your chemo bar,
you pretty much selected what you're running with,
you know,
I mean,
I've been running with the same chemo bar run for a while,
now that I've selected this mom off,
I back bred her with my males,
you know,
I've got seeds off of that,
that I'm working with,
with this next one here,
getting it ready to run number 13,
I'm gonna do,
I'm doing this one a little bit different brother,
so I'm literally gonna run COAs on each one of the different
girls coming out with what I've got now,
because now that I actually have the chemo bar structure of
what it is,
I have something that I can run side by side comparisons
with when I'm running my tests on stuff.
So I get what you're saying.
Yeah,
I'm trying to make sure that what I let go out is,
is complete carbon copy of what I've got coming out of the
clone.
Cool.
Oh, that's great.
Thank you very much.
That's a,
it's extremely interesting.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's a,
it's a,
you know what I mean?
It's a,
it's a,
it's a labor of love that,
I've read two hybrids together.
We didn't do anything, man.
You got to,
you got to,
you got to select that and come back back through and hunt it
all out, you know,
and it literally,
you know,
and you can hunt it.
It doesn't have to be 2000 seeds.
You can,
you know,
hunt with 10 seeds, man,
you know,
but you gotta be willing to do the time and it doesn't
happen overnight.
And it sure as hell doesn't happen in one year.
You know,
this takes years and years and years,
but available on a lot of this gear,
you know,
these,
these old school stuff, man,
we've got decades into some of these plants,
man,
you know,
a quarter of a century,
man.
It's like,
it's not something that just happened overnight.
It's all in the last 10 years.
I mean,
and I didn't get it either because I wasn't participating
anymore.
You know,
D,
D what you said,
brother,
you're maybe it was Ryan.
You know,
why did you,
I walked,
I was sick of it,
man.
You know,
I was sick of all the bullshit.
I was sick of all the falseness of it,
man.
You know,
this plant is supposed to be about helping people in
community.
We were,
we were losing our way of life here.
Our old school get together farm,
farm harvest parties on over the weekend in October.
Those days are gone,
man.
You guys have missed this beautiful,
beautiful time in this community here where we were,
we were,
we were able to do something that we've had to shut the
community out for fear of replicate of repercussions from
the law enforcement and,
and just people wanting and just knowing every time an
outsider comes here,
that they just want to be around us for one reason.
And that's because of our cannabis,
man.
That's what this market's done to this community here,
personally,
what we've all endured,
you know,
and,
and for me,
why I've done what I've done the last four,
five years is I've just trying to help my brothers and
sisters see a way to get through it all,
you know,
and like I tell them all,
and I'm on the radio here pretty regularly on K mud here,
man,
where,
you know,
I'm not telling you that I'm the only way,
but I am a way to protect yourself and navigate into this
space.
And it's better than just sitting there and doing nothing
and waiting for them to just take all your stuff away from
you legally,
because that's what they're going to do,
which is what they did to,
I'm not telling you guys anything new,
just do your own research.
Look,
what's happened to all these small mom and pop farmers when
big agriculture,
specifically Monsanto put their genetically modified gear
next to them in an open,
open pollination environment,
man,
their shit blew over into some organic corn farmers field.
And then their lawyers come in in the middle of the night.
That's right.
So the cross pollinated genetics,
brother,
again,
I don't want to be on top.
You know,
I'm not the only guy preaching this story,
man.
I hope other people are hearing this.
You know,
this is what I see.
Half.
Okay.
Now,
what's wrong, brother?
They going to do that over a 59 cent of air corn.
What the fuck are they going to do with a $2,000 a pound of
flour?
How much are they going to kill people for that,
man?
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
And,
and you know,
all the cannabis producers have to watch out for the hemp
producers.
Cause they're,
that's a careless group of people.
They don't really care.
Cause they're not focused on producing flour.
They're focused on producing seed and you know,
and bulk and other things.
I mean,
the people who are growing CBD for flour are growing that
indoors,
but most of the outdoor stuff is all for bulk.
And that flyover,
that,
that pollen that gets carried on the wind is destroying
farms in Oregon.
I know it's happened there and it's,
it's something we have to watch out for because most of the
people are getting into hemp,
don't know anything about growing cannabis or growing hemp
for that matter.
That's why 90%
Or hermaphroditing seed stock.
That's the part that I don't get.
They're growing a plant that they don't have any clue.
They got hermaphroditing seed stock.
It's blowing pollen everywhere.
Yup.
And it will humble man.
You know,
the rule here,
man, no,
no hemp in humble,
man.
That's the law.
You know,
that's the law here is no hemp in humble.
You know,
and we're craft cultivation,
THC cannabis.
And we,
you know,
we're hoping that Mendocino and Trinity follows suit so that
we don't lose our way of life here.
You know,
at least that's what my approach is with this thing.
You know,
You said it,
you said it right where you said earlier about holding a lot
of your phenomes and what you created to yourself and your
brand.
I do see a future in craft cannabis.
I'm speaking right now as a consumer.
So that's what I'm going to be speaking as at this moment.
So I do feel like,
you know,
consistency and craft is going to be the future of,
as this,
this green gold mammoth takes off and continues to take off,
you know,
everything you're saying resonates with a huge marketplace.
And I think that that brand alone is special.
So the cousins of what you're developing,
you know,
alone will be already unique,
but just hold onto that.
And I think that's special.
And anybody in here that's,
you know,
doing what Doc is preaching,
you know,
think of that when this,
as this market continues to do what it's doing.
I suggest to everybody to just,
you know,
look at the seed banks,
man,
you know,
Strainley's a beautiful one.
You know,
Todd's got a lot of really cool old school gear coming out.
Look overseas in the Netherlands seed banks,
look at the banks,
the seed banks in Canada,
the UK,
you know,
there's a lot of places to get gear from now.
It's a hell of a lot easier than what it used to be 30 years
ago.
Everything's everything that I've,
you know,
yeah.
Everything I've ordered in the last few years,
especially my land race stuff.
I mean,
the rule used to be,
you know,
you ordered from three different sources and hope that one
of them got through right.
Well,
they're all three came through and I got gear from all over
continent of Africa,
which was just cool as fuck,
man.
You know,
stuff that's called the elephant killer for crying out loud.
You know what I mean?
It's like,
right.
You know what I mean?
It's like you get some of these packages and you're like,
Oh my God,
please let this be vaguely close to what it says it is,
you know?
So that's kind of what,
and what I'm only saying that because it's kind of like my
list with what,
what Peter was talking to you.
So like just some of these cool crosses that we,
we let roll out this time.
We're just like,
we Brian is a,
is a bad-ass CBD guy,
man.
He's just like an unknown hero that no,
you know,
quietly going about it when for 25 years,
when nobody was in the CBD thread and nobody wants his
genetics,
you know,
and this kind of a deal.
And now I'm helping him with me and him playing together for
the last couple of years and putting some crazy,
cause I get turned on to crazy shit all the time,
just cause you know where I am in my life.
And I,
and I know everybody that's in the game that really is like
all the,
all the rock stars are friends of mine,
you know?
So they,
they,
they send me stuff and give me stuff and give me cool shit
to play with all the time.
So Brian into my realm here a couple of years ago,
about four or five years ago now,
but working with him specifically on getting,
doing this co lab that he and I did,
that is now coming out with what Peter and I are working on
is to give people an opportunity to get stuff that as what
these,
these guys up here,
we're talking about, you know,
there aren't a lot of really different choices out here.
Well,
here's some different choices so that you could take some of
this stuff.
And with this,
just a little bit of due diligence on your part as a home
consumer or home cultivator,
take one of these really cool,
one of a kind that nobody has that it's an F1 state,
source it yourself and cross it with something that you love
and build your own self,
your own,
you know,
you build your own gear,
so to speak.
And that's how you do this.
And,
and why I,
why I did this last deal with you,
brother, you know,
the previous one was just,
cause I had never done it before,
honestly, Peter,
and I was just,
wasn't even sure if I wanted to let people have my stuff,
you know,
so I let you take stuff that I cared about,
but wasn't like,
I didn't have my blood,
sweat and tears into like this other stuff that I've been
tight fisted on,
you know,
and,
and following my legal advice,
which,
you know,
my legal guy tells me he's going to come hunt you down.
So I have to not go against what my legal guy will tell me.
So,
you know,
Oh yeah.
Like one thing that I do want to know,
like for me in Canada here is there's so many websites that
just have seeds,
right.
And you can buy seeds as souvenir seeds.
And there are a lot of seed companies claiming,
Oh yeah,
this is 30% THC.
And then when you grow it out and you get it tested,
it's not actually what it is.
Doc,
the picture in my,
or my picture right now is the blue dream cross with the
night terror.
Oh no blue dream cross with rare darkness.
And it's from the rare dankness brand.
And I didn't,
I didn't edit this picture.
And this is what I got.
Not sure what,
what her budget saying PTR,
which is pulled a refresh and her little picture will pop up
and you'll be able to see the gorgeous.
I can see the blue dream from a mile away.
Cause it comes across in my blue skunk very well as the same
kind of gorgeous,
gorgeous flower sister.
And it's beautiful.
Oh yeah.
I posted this.
I posted this on Instagram and I like,
it just went viral.
It was posted on the sidebar,
nug magazine,
rare dinkers,
and everything.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it smoked really,
really good.
And it just covered in the,
the tricones from like head to toe.
Oh my gosh.
I know that I know that name rare dankness.
Is that,
is that a skunk symbol on the logo?
Yes.
Yep.
Ah, yes.
I do know rare dankness through Instagram.
Through Instagram.
Absolutely.
That's Scott reach.
Yeah.
There you go.
I'm very,
very proud of this picture.
And I'll just keep her up here.
But as I was saying,
doc before is like,
you know,
there's a lot of sites online and people aren't really
getting what they're asking for.
It says this,
but it's actually something else.
And in my,
my experiences,
my friend gave me a cutting from a reputable source,
quotation marks.
And I grew it out.
It was a beautiful plant.
It was supposed to be a Quebec CBD,
20 to one ratio.
I grew it out.
I went and I got it tested and it tested at 13% THC and 2%
CBD.
So for the people that are listening,
I just want to say,
make sure you go to reputable sources for your genetics,
like our Mr. Doc Ray over here and,
you know,
just be,
be wary of what's going on.
So.
I've got a question for doc,
if it's cool.
I actually,
Bobby,
let,
let me just,
you just because there are like 200 people watching on
YouTube and one of them had a question that I didn't want
to miss.
And then we'll throw it to you.
But Adam on YouTube said,
I'm working with some lines and I'm trying to get to produce
hash and yield better,
but keep the terpene profiles.
Any tips from doc?
And then actually,
or Jackson.
So I think he thinks that a mean gene from Mendocino is in
the house,
but it's actually a different Jackson.
But anyway,
doc,
any tips on,
on hash,
you,
you know,
maybe breeding towards hash yielding,
but keeping the flavor profiles.
Brother.
I just did one.
Yeah.
I don't,
I haven't named it yet,
but it's the Fino.
I called it the Fino number five.
You know,
it's one that I was working on.
I'm going to go with what I did.
Okay.
So what I was,
I was proposed by my,
my people that are around me that are extraction people.
And they said,
Hey,
old man,
can you get us something that comes in at over 30%,
you know,
for the,
for the total sum.
And I was like,
I don't know,
let me see.
So I took stuff that I thought was really good for high
yield total sum.
And crossed two of those together.
And then came back with a buddy of mine here.
That's a fricking legend.
And took some of his male pollen and threw it in on that
selection four years ago,
and then crossed it here three years ago to itself.
And I pulled that thing out here and that's this Fino five
that I'm working with.
And it's coming in at 33%.
So I know you can do that.
And I know people are telling me that it's above that rounds
too.
So I'm thinking for,
you know,
for oil production,
hash production,
those kinds of things,
you can do it.
You're just going to have to really be aware of what you're
working with.
And I worked with a couple of real,
you know,
real rockstar plants,
you know,
I mean,
I,
you know,
it's just,
you want to know what your parentage is start with stuff.
That's already in the high realm for total sum for,
because what you're wanting is yield.
You're wanting,
you know,
what will some yield so that you're wanting stuff that's
already in that 30% realm,
but it just kind of makes sense.
Like I was breeding stuff that was already in the,
in the upper twenties.
I took one that was way,
way up there and threw it.
And you know,
now I did just some visual and,
and oscilloscope work for one year of just watching and
counting tricone build up,
you know,
as I went through and picked my mother's out.
So there's a lot of handwork selection that to be done in
the process,
but you can get it done.
Me to whoever you're going to try and do something like
that with whatever your parentage is,
you know,
pick something that's got already a third,
you know,
pick you 30% parents.
And that's going to make sure that you're keep your realm up
to where you're,
where your extraction rate is high enough for what you want.
Cause nothing worse than to be trying,
and especially in hash production,
man,
working with something that's got a total cannibal sum of
like, you know,
fucking 18,
man, you're,
you're working,
you know,
you're working twice as hard for the same plant.
If you got something that's producing up in that 30 range.
So that makes,
that makes sense.
That makes sense.
That answers the question.
I think the answer is question.
I think so.
So what was it?
Bobby who had a question?
Yeah.
I got a question for doc earlier.
You mentioned when selecting males,
you're looking for males that show their preflowers early,
but I had a,
I was in a clubhouse room with Dan from rebel grown.
And he wrote an article saying that he observed in his
experience that pre-flowering males have progeny that are
less potent.
Do you see something different?
You know,
I'm going to go back to what I said when I started that
conversation,
I'm,
I'm working on best traits.
Okay.
I I'm going by best traits and the best traits are the ones
that show their sex.
The soonest, the guy, the boy, that's the tallest,
that whole thing, you know,
so there's a part of this that it could be that, you know,
I'm looking at the guy that shows that showing pre-flower the
soonest. And so you get this, okay.
I'm working with a hundred seeds.
I got 70 girls and 30 guys.
I'm just throwing the, you know,
I'm seeing pre-flowers.
I'm just shuffling those puppies off to the side,
putting them in their tent so I can keep control of them
because you know, they,
they throw their nuts and powder so quick.
It's like a secondary thought because you're dealing with
your girls so much, you know what I mean? Right.
So now I've right.
So now I've shifted gears.
I'm going back into my boy room.
I've lost track of who was the first boy per se, you know,
other than going in and looking on the tags, if I did my,
okay.
Let me rephrase that.
If I did my job correctly, I've numbered the tags.
One, two, three, four, five, six, you know, 10, 20, 30,
whatever, I mean, fucking boys there are, right.
I don't ever run 30 boys.
Quite honestly, when I get to about 10,
any males that come up after that or show themselves,
I call them at this stage of the game.
I just don't want that much diversity in what I'm working
with when it comes to phenoselection and genotype hunting
specifically. Okay, cool.
So now that I've done that, so I get what you're saying.
I'm not really keeping up with that information at that
point in the game when I'm looking at it.
Now, if it just happens to be, I've tagged it.
It's the number one boy.
He showed his balls the fastest.
He happens to be the tallest, the strongest, the bulkiest,
the best scent.
I'm going to run with him and let the chips fall where they
may, so to speak,
as far as how mother nature plays the thing out.
It hasn't led me wrong in, you know,
45 years of breeding and 35 years of breeding,
seriously breeding and, you know, five decades of doing it.
It hasn't failed me yet before the science was there to back
me up. So anyway, I hope that answered your question, bro.
That did. Thank you very much, doc. I appreciate it.
I was going to also,
I was also going to say the most exotic looking that helps.
Exactly. Exactly. D.B.
Again, you know, that's that best traits thing.
And that's personal, personal preference, man.
That's up to the individual grower, the breeder, man.
You know what I think is beautiful in a plant.
You may not necessarily think is, you know,
so this is that why I said, why,
why use the term best trait selection.
And that's very selective to the breeder and their personal
choices. We are all look at these things differently.
If we're doing this, you know, someone I may be looking,
and I do because of what my environment is.
I'm always looking for genetics. And so you guys get it.
If you get my gear,
there's a high probability that outdoors it always finishes
by mid October or sooner because of the environment that I
work in.
You won't get any DRG gear that takes until frickin November.
Are you kidding me?
That's a waste of time, energy, and effort in the triangle,
man. Nobody does that outdoor.
So all my gears bred that way.
So I'm like, and I'm only going to leave that one little bit
corner out because I know you guys can't get the corner of
it. And I only said that to this is the,
the rock star in my Fino number five,
the mystery plant is the black dog and black dog.
The humble black dog is by my dear, dear brother,
bio vortex man.
And that bad boy finishes at 50 days and doors, man.
So this is just a crush and plant that yields at 30%
finishes at 50 damn days.
Well, that's the last little corner of my Fino five plant.
And that's what that plant is.
Why it came out at its first run at 32.98 total sum.
And at 30, almost 31% on its THC.
So you can do it. You just, again, you know,
stack the deck in your favor, man. You know,
don't be using stuff that's, you know, 15%, man.
If you're going to think you can use that 15% with a 15,
you're going to get a 30.
The map just doesn't work that way.
And that's just common sense when it comes to breeding.
And at least in my experience with it.
So anyway, thank you everybody.
Now, Jesse's awesome.
Hey guys, do you mind if I ask a question?
Go for it.
So doc, I wanted to ask you about IBLs.
And I know you said you were working with F11.
At what generation, I guess to say,
when the genetics start leveling out,
I guess to say when you can get consistency among seeds,
what's considered, I guess, an IBL or like a true breed?
And that's coming from a Brown University student.
So.
Yes, sir.
I'm going to say five, F5, you know, four to six.
That's pretty, they're pretty carbon cutter at that point.
You know, I mean, it's, there's variables.
I mean, you know, and again, guys, it's farming,
you know, it's farming at its best.
There's always variables,
especially in the outdoor application
that we have no real control over as farmers.
You know, mother nature,
she's going to be her own fickle thing
that she has and does what she does.
So, but like around here, when you get into that F5 range,
F6 range for sure, it's pretty tried and true, you know?
And again, this is so far beyond that it's ridiculous.
Like this Raselberry Cush
that comes from Burnt Ranch, Interior, Humboldt,
direct from the source from my mentor, you know,
it's like F30, fricking two or three,
something stupid like that, you know?
And it literally, and I'm going to just say that,
it's just as true, true breed as it can be, you know,
it's a true double purple, double indica heirloom,
legendary genetics, man, that, you know,
I tell people that it's 80% female
and my buddies that did the last testers
came back and laughed and said,
oh man, it's over 90% female.
And every one of them is a carbon copy of each other.
So I guess that's about as true breed as you can get,
but I'm going to say for practical application
with a control group, you know what I'm saying, Nigel,
with a control group and verification,
if someone can do it,
it starts happening around F5, F6 in my book.
That makes sense, cool?
Yeah, absolutely, I appreciate that.
Right, you know what I mean?
I mean, it could be quicker than that.
I mean, let me back up just a little bit.
Okay, for example, you're crossing like a sativa
with a sativa, you know,
and that's just not the realm that I work in,
but I know there's people that are, you know, that do that.
You know, so you're already setting your,
you're setting some parameters of tall, lanky,
willowy plants, long-term finish, right?
So there's some variables that you could take out
of this mix where like me crossing, like for example,
this Amazonian rainforest sativa that I'm playing with,
with this Moroccan indica that I've got, you know,
when I, so I'm taking a tall, lanky one
with a short, bushy one.
There's a couple of years in there
where I'm trying to get them all the same size
that you might be able to eliminate, you know,
a round or two with that by using genetics
that had similar profiles to begin with.
You know what I mean?
Right?
Right, so you're saying like more so if the,
I guess the land races or anything else
that they originate from coming closer,
have like a closer gene pool, I guess,
to say you'd knock out a couple rounds of breeding.
I think so.
And I'm just hypothesizing here
and just going on my own best, you know,
my own best guess and doing it for so long,
but I just see that, you know, like,
and I'm going to go with the stuff that I, you know,
the people that I work with and what I'm seeing,
you know, like when you go into the interior mountains,
like in Afghanistan,
and you go into some of those areas
where cannabis is just a way of life there,
those land races, you know,
where there are those open pollination environments,
they're not sourced or controlled
in any form or fashion how we are.
And I consider that stuff, like you said,
like true bred genetics, man, you know,
that stuff is just carbon copy over and over and over again.
And it's only because of naturalization
and their open pollination environment that they work in.
And they're not doing any of the kinds of science stuff
that we do here in this country
or any place else in the world.
They're just using, you know, old school farming practices
and not even really,
they don't even really approach the plant the way we do.
But as we both know,
you get some of those things out of some of those valleys,
man, they're just, it's breathtaking, man.
I mean, they're just breathtaking.
They come out, the color spectrum's phenomenal.
The buds, like something you've never ever seen before.
The leaf structure is like, it's so one of a kind, man,
that you just look at it and you shake your head and go,
how in the hell did they do this?
And they don't even, you know, they don't even work in a,
there's no laboratory, there's no greenhouses, you know,
they're not collecting pollen like I am.
You know, they don't use any of the practices that we do.
They didn't go to school, you know, to buy,
go to school and major in agriculture
in any form or fashion, you know,
it's just old school,
taught down generation to generation to generation.
And just, you know, that's the way their grandmother
and grandfather did it.
And their grandparents before them did it.
And it's taught down to the kids, you know,
and it's like, anyways, that's,
I believe if you use genetics that were more
genotype specific, you know, they were more,
they're defining characteristics were more aligned
that you might be able to shave a year or two
out of your stabilization process
to where you were down to a single chemo bar
running with a particular phenotype
that you were running with.
Cool.
Awesome.
Appreciate you, doc.
Yes, sir.
Yes, sir.
Thank you, brother.
Harris, did you have a question?
Yeah, I did.
I did have another question for the,
I guess this is for anyone who wants to answer it
or anyone who can.
For everyone who breeds here,
is your genetic modification of the plant
limited to traditional breeding
or have you engaged in any sort of gene editing
with tools like CRISPR-Cas9?
I'm old school, Paul and brother.
I don't do any manipulation at all.
It's not really my, not my wheelhouse
and not where my practice is.
Breeding is manipulation.
One more time.
I just remarked that breeding is manipulation.
Oh, I get what you're saying,
but no, I'm not doing any gene editing per se.
No, I'm just doing, like I said,
like the whole conversation,
I do what my practice is,
is what I consider best trait selection,
male to female pollination.
I do it in a variety of scenarios,
from in the field pollination,
old school in that environment,
working over buckets of water with wet towels
on the cool of the morning when it's damp outside,
that kind of deal and open field pollination
to in controlled environment in my lab
where I have my interior operation
where I have my lab set up
where I do my control breeding
so that I make sure that I get my seed stock
replicated over and over again correctly,
to greenhouse propagation, the same kind of deal.
It's like each practice is a little bit different,
but the end result is basically the same
and that's to get quality seed stock reproduce.
So I don't do any kind of editing work
other than, like I said, it's just old school.
Maybe just sense with the plant,
they wanna kind of put some kind of
science terminology to it.
I didn't call it that five years ago, man.
It was just what I did.
Now they wanna try and call it whatever it is.
I'm self-taught, man.
I didn't go to school for it.
I've been gardening my entire life.
I don't know all the ins and outs of it.
A lot of the verbiage that I'm using now
is all verbiage that I've learned in the last five years,
that part of it.
But for me personally, it's always been about,
like what I said, best trait selection.
The things that I thought were important in the plant.
This is why this breeding thing is such a personal choice
in my opinion, for most cultivators
that choose to make their own seed stock.
Why I said, find something that you love
and like yourself personally,
regardless of what anybody else is doing
and then cross it with something else
that you like to work with.
And then you have literally created
your first set of gear for yourself.
It's that simple.
And there's kind of a rule around here in the triangle.
If I give you seed stock and you take it
and you replicate that seed stock next year,
that's your version of my genetics.
It's not what I did.
It's what you did because you took my seeds
and turned it into your choice of a variation
because you selected the male that you bred
and you selected the female that you bred.
I didn't do that.
So that's a kind of another approach
that we take here in this neck of the woods as well.
Anyway, that's kind of,
I've been at this thing for a long time, man.
And I don't know every bit of it.
I don't know all the ins and outs of it.
I know what I do.
I know my practice and I know that there are people
that have been doing it a lot less time than I have
that are more proficient at it than I am
because they use the science and the technology
or they went to school for it specifically.
So it's not my realm.
I do know what I do and what I do, I do very, very well.
And according to my plant lawyers and my breeding firm
who is filled with a bunch of PhDs and lawyers
and jurist doctorate motherfuckers
that I'm like one of only about three or four people
in the entire planet that do what I do.
So I'm cool with that.
I may not know all the ins and outs of it
but I do do what I do very, very well.
So anyway.
Thank you very much.
And then Peter, did you have anything to add
about gene editing?
I saw you come off mute.
No, I mean, there are people who obviously use CRISPR
and tools like that, but Doc is definitely not one of them.
He's doing a lot of mad science up in the hills of Humboldt
but that is not part of it.
But so I, Wade Louder was in the room earlier
and I just pinged him to see if he'd jump in.
I love that old man.
Yeah, I've got his gear.
I would love for him to be in.
We can actually talk about it
because some of the stuff I sent you
he is responsible for big guy.
That's the heart.
Well, that's what I wanted to talk about
because you were talking about a bunch of kind
of high CBD lines.
And I think when you were gonna send them down
you were like, are people even interested in this stuff?
And I was like, everybody's interested.
It's like an old record.
An old creative records, right?
Like there's something that's gonna jump out at everyone.
And I liked the idea of just,
if someone's looking for something specific
I have no problem making it available to them.
Yeah, I saw him come in.
I saw him come in.
I wish I should have brought him up here
cause he's just a such a,
and again, we're the same animal.
He's a, we're the same version of each other.
We're the same kind of people.
We're the same version of each other.
We're about to plant.
And there's another one that,
and if you guys don't know who we're talking about
what Wade is the father of the Harlequin plant,
and he's gonna be real humble about it
cause he's just the guy that's,
that Fino hunted the seeds
but he's the house of Harlequin.
And just anybody that's ever dealt with post-traumatic stress
or dealt with pain or childhood epilepsy
Harlequin is a serious player in all three of those realms.
And it's just, again, this is a old man
that's been at the game for a long time
when nobody wanted CBD flower.
And now all of a sudden
because people are learning about full spectrum
and terpene profiles and, oh my God
there's more than just THC to this plant.
Now, all of a sudden his flower that's been around
for a long ass time is relevant, you know, and me.
And like I said, my old man flower
my blue skunk that's 15 fricking years old, you know
and F11 going to be F12 this year
that nobody wanted it eight years ago
because it was a blue dream cross.
And now everybody wants the damn thing, you know?
So it's all part of the cycle.
It's all part of the learning curve for the consumer.
And it's all part of what we do as breeders
is to try and educate and teach out, you know
and it's like you mentioned, you know
like that one specifically, you know, I did took
took Wade's Harlequin and we crossed it
with three different rock stars
that we work with here in our gardens, you know
and my Afghan Columbian Mexican cross
my ACM that's just been around.
And that's a Columbian red crossed
with a Mexican gold crossed with an Afghani purple.
And that's what that thing is.
And if you are born after 1980, it's older than you are.
So that's just what that plant is.
So that one right there.
And then I took that when my buddy and I, we
Brian and I, we threw that in there and we crossed it
another version of that with the original OG Kush, you know
and this was to give somebody another variation
of a dark dank, dank dance flower
with a high CBD flower, you know.
And then the last one that we put on, which I just love
because nobody ever uses it anymore.
And it's such a beautiful old flower called Jasmine
that nobody even knows about hardly anymore
that we crossed it with a cousin
of that that's called the Jagu.
You know, and Jagu is an old legendary strain
from mythical lore from the Jamaican islands
that we have now put out into the world's hands.
So you can find a Harlequin with the Jagu cross
as well out in the world now
as for people to have access to.
Anybody.
I know a hundred years ago
I like to know that you're a rock star geneticist
and I can get you some milk, pollen and corn
so that you can keep your own treasure.
That's some of Wade's gear is part of this stuff
that we just recently let out just a couple of weeks ago
that is part of what's going to be coming out
with what Peter and I are working on.
So I don't know, brother
if you want me to talk about the other stuff, I will.
We've been going for a couple of hours, you know
we can wrap it if you want to, I can wrap it.
I actually got a phone.
So I did want to say good night.
Thank you, doc.
Thank you, Peter as always.
I always appreciate speaking with you
in your rooms and everything
and doc great meeting you
and spending some time chatting with you.
I appreciate your brother.
And we will talk, we will definitely talk more.
Reach out, let's stay in contact.
I guess we need to get fricking FCP to put a podcast
to put me and you on the screen at the same time.
That'd be kind of fun.
We can do it.
We can make that happen.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Sounds good.
Thanks Jason for sharing.
Thank you very much.
Have a great night everybody.
You too.
Well, yeah, now we could definitely wrap it up.
I mean, it's after 11,
we can do it to be continued.
I'm, you know, you know how I am, man.
I'm gonna go until you tell me to stop.
So I'll try twice.
We got over the half where I know we're over that one
and a half hour mark, which is I know you know.
All right, well, how about this?
We just say we're in the home stretch.
So everyone on YouTube right now,
if you have any questions, throw them up there.
I liked it basically,
if people were to guess the over under on Wade
checking his email,
he will get the link to come back.
I pinged him too, brother.
Oh, you did?
Yeah, we keep up with each other too.
So maybe he'll pop back into the space.
And anybody, if you've got a question, man,
you know, just raise your hand and come on up.
We're just up here talking about genetics and breeding
and I'm, you know, telling stories about my past
being in this game for five decades.
So this is an open conversation.
I'm trying to answer questions as best as I can.
Brother, I'm gonna say, let's give him, you know,
till the 20, it'll be 420 somewhere
and we can wrap it if he's not here.
How about that?
Cool, cool.
So what, yeah.
And so if he comes on, obviously we can talk
Harlequin and CBD and...
However he wants to, yeah, however long he wants to go.
Yeah, yeah.
But I'm looking at, so we talked about the Susie Q
Afghan Columbian.
How about all the Trident stuff?
Oh yeah, that's just crazy stuff there now.
So now that's some really cool ones here too
that I hope people will embrace this one at Fino Hunted Out
and find themselves a rockstar
because this is a true rockstar opportunity
on these right here, okay?
So the Trident is another one.
The Trident is another high CBD,
like 15% CBD genetic medical cannabis cultivar
that's kind of been on the back burner for a lot of years
even though it's a rockstar when it comes
to treating childhood epilepsy.
It's another great plant that has a lot
of tremendous therapeutic value
when it comes to treating gut issues.
And by that, I'm talking like Crohn's and IBS, okay?
So again, two other fields that I work in
with people day in and day out.
Actively to this day, I have worked in
for well over 15 years in the Crohn's and IBS thread
which is why I work with the Trident plant.
So I took the Trident plant, or let me rephrase that.
We took the Trident plant and Brian and I took that
bad boy and threw the OG Skywalker in on top of it.
And if anybody's not familiar with the OG Skywalker,
that is a direct cousin of the original OG Kush, right?
So we took that bad boy and threw the Skywalker
in on top of it.
And that was about four years ago.
And we surfed that one out and we found this pheno
that we liked and this thing for a full CBD flower
looks about just as dank THC as it can be.
It's just as frosty as fuck and just unbelievably
nice, mellow smoke, right?
Just a really, really pleasant, pleasant, pleasant experience.
So we phenoed that one out and I took that female
and came back in and threw all the stuff
that we work with in the house on top of all that
one more time.
And that was two years back now, I guess.
And that is the seed stock that you have
is all that F1, F2 stuff, brother.
And that's gonna be like that Skywalker Trident cross
was phenoed out by the farm, us at the farm
I thought were exceptionally well suited for that.
Again, my ACM, my Afghan Columbian cross
that I've worked with with years and years
was one of the ones that we knew we wanted to put in
on top of it.
And then we came back in again one more time
and threw the John Goo in on top of it.
And then one last time with the OG Kush
to go three independent versions.
Stuff like I said earlier in this conversation,
that's all F1 stuff that's been phenoed one time previously
and now ready to be bred again for best trade selection
for someone that I saw in the survey
were asking me how to get it right.
And just the way I work, I'm gonna throw
won't be the exact same animal, cool?
Yeah, it was just a little troubleshooting on the audio.
You sounded like your audio was going out.
So I wasn't sure what was happening, but yeah,
I think I would like to see,
I hope people will try that Skywalker trident
with the Afghan Columbian cross.
I think that's gonna be a beautiful, beautiful flower.
And I don't think any of the John Goo crosses
are gonna, you can go wrong with those
for high yield total sum
because that's a high yield total sum plant, man.
And if you're not familiar with any of the names
that I threw out tonight on some of these genetics,
it's not hard to find,
Google search and those names will pop up.
The information's pretty consistent across WikiLeaf
and Leafy and all that kind of jazz
with the basics of what the genetics are.
So you can make yourself as an informed consumer,
so you can make yourself an informed cultivator and grower.
And if you're thinking about getting into the breeding
end of the deal or the genetics end of the deal,
it's all part of the process.
We as breeders, we're seed savers by design.
I don't just save cannabis seeds, man.
I grow my own broccoli seeds
and I literally just propagate it.
I literally just, all the lettuce in my garden
is my seed stock from last year.
You know what I'm saying?
You need to send me some of that
because I'm actually flowering out some broccoli for seeds,
but I'd love to try someone else's stuff.
And I do love my salads.
You know that Humboldt broccoli, man,
we get like three grand a pound
for that Humboldt broccoli now.
I'm being a complete smart ass.
Of course, Peter, I'll send you fucking broccoli seeds, man,
if you want some broccoli seeds, man.
That'd be like the cheapest seed you've ever asked of me
from me before ever, man.
So of course, bro.
The bees are loving the,
I have the daikon and the broccoli flowering, right?
The daikon is shocking.
It just like flowers nonstop.
It just doesn't, like I keep expecting it to stop
and it doesn't.
I've got, my broccoli is all in full flower right now.
And between flower and seed,
the broccoli's all in flower and seed.
My collards are huge, man.
And the flower spikes are like six feet fucking tall.
Oh man, it's crazy how big those things are.
And then all the lettuce is reseeded.
I got nasturiums coming back out from, naturalized.
Those are coming out.
They're delicious.
You eat them in salad,
little mother nature's antiseptic in the garden
and pestis turrent.
And on top of it, you can eat the flower, man.
Another cool thing.
It's like, it's part of this area up here.
We grow bad ass cannabis flowers,
but we also do a lot of other things.
We, most of us are home cultivators.
We grow our own food.
My backyard literally is,
you can go out and pick a meal out of my backyard, man.
I mean, I got apples and cherries and blueberries
and lemons and fricking avocados,
and raspberry gold, golden raspberries,
and just three different kinds of cherries
and pears and peaches.
And it's just, again, you can walk through my backyard
and literally feed yourself,
different kinds of berries.
I grow a lot of, because of where we are,
coastally, the climate is right for berries.
So I've got mulberries and raspberries and strawberries
and just blueberries and just berries, man.
We grow a lot of fruit and vegetables
in our little homestead that we do here.
It's like, it's just part of it.
Cannabis is just one more thing of my whole deal
that I've taught out for decades,
and that's grow your own everything, man.
Grow your own food, grow your own medicine,
grow your own smoke, grow your own everything.
And the more we as a community and as a world
and as a people,
the biggest sovereignty in the world,
the best way to be sovereign in my book
is to be self-sufficient,
is not be dependent on the system.
You know, be, grow, and with that approach that we've,
I moved out of that completely off-grid thing
because I got old and got hurt, you know?
So I'm attached to the grid now.
However, I have a backup power supply
and I have solar panels, even though I don't need them.
If I need them, like when the grid goes down,
man, two minutes, I'm on my own power
under my own power in a matter of minutes, you know?
So there are things that you can do as a consumer
and as a human being and as a citizen
to make your own sovereignty in the world,
and that's learn how to grow your own food
and grow your own flour
and be self-sufficient as best as you can.
Because like I said, we grew up poor
and I didn't realize we were poor growing up
because we ate very, very well
because my grandmother and my family,
that side of the family knew how to garden
and knew how to, you know, raise chickens
and how to raise hogs.
And, you know, my uncles and my grandfather
went in every year together and went and bought a hog.
And we had a big party, you know, a harvest party
where they butchered a cow and, you know,
and a couple of hogs and the family,
it was a big ordeal, you know,
where it was a big gathering, you know,
it was a feast and a party and the men worked
and prepped animals and put them in the smoke house,
you know, for the wintertime and the fall coming.
And it was just part of that journey, you know,
it's just part of this whole evolution of things
as we've seen.
We as a community and as a society,
we have disconnected from that oneness
with mother earth and mother Gaia
and creating our own food and knowing where it came from.
We have generationally, we have missed that
and we need to re-embrace that brothers and sisters
in my book, we need to re-embrace that
being back to the earth.
And as one of the people was up here earlier,
there's something very, very fulfilling
and very liberating and very uplifting
and spiritually healing to us when we are,
our feet are on the ground and our hands are in the soil
and we are cultivating and you should raise a plant
grows up and specifically the cannabis plant
is that you nurture it and it comes to fruition for you
and you harvest this plant and you do it correctly
and you get to the end and the end product
is this beautiful medicine that brings you relief
or an intoxicant if you choose to use it that way,
which again, there's many things on the planet
that can be abused.
This is just one of those things,
but if we use this plant from a correct perspective
and one from a pure heart,
when it comes to giving this flower out
and helping our brothers and sisters,
I believe that is its greatest reward.
So it's why I do what I do.
I've rambled for two hours and 23 minutes, Peter.
I have a bowl in my hand.
It is 420 somewhere.
I think you should hit that bowl
and I'll actually, I'll go grab mine.
Moment, but let's hit that bowl and then call it a night.
I am down brother.
So any of my brothers and sisters in the space this evening,
I appreciate you hanging with us this evening
and listening to me ramble for a couple hours.
I ask you if you are also taking to please join me
in breaking sacrament right now.
And I thank you for sharing space.
And what are you smoking on right now?
I'm smoking the orange cream frost, Peter,
because it's time for night night
and that's a great time for night night flower.
And so you've actually smoked that flower.
So you know how yummy that bad girl is.
That bad girl is delicious.
Yes, she is.
So.
Yeah, it's funny because I,
Tyler from Family Tree Seeds gave me a bunch of flower
and I hit it before we started
and it fucking knocked me out.
And I was like, we gotta go live right now.
So that's what I just, I figured that was,
now is the right time to smoke that.
Perfect, perfect, perfect.
So, all right, well, everyone, thanks for joining.
This was our inaugural Future Cannabis Project Club Host
to YouTube broadcast,
even though we've done a couple before.
And what's today, Tuesday?
There's something, oh, tomorrow night we got
hash conversations with Solventlessismore
and our guests who ate edibles
before we were supposed to go live last time.
I think it's Kelly Kosher, but I'm drawing a blank right now,
but that is tomorrow night.
So, Doc, I appreciate it.
You know it, Peter, you know it.
And I know we're gonna be doing a podcast here
in the next week or two, I'm assuming.
So, you know, there's a precursor for that.
I'm glad I got to pop your cherry in the clubhouse, buddy.
I'm just so, I'm glad that I own that honor, man.
They can't take that one away from me, man.
So, I'm super stoked about that.
I want everyone to visualize a big,
burly Santa Claus looking man popping my cherry.
Yeah, that is a scary thought.
Honestly, man, you guys should see this big beard, man,
in my heyday, man.
I'm just a smidge under 6'5",
and I used to be just a smidge under 250,
a solid muscle in my military days.
So, I'm a pretty scary old boy when I want to be.
So, anyway, yeah, no, I'm a mellow old man now.
I've calmed down over the decades.
But yeah, brother, I appreciate it.
Glad we got an opportunity to do this,
and glad you got into this space, man.
And you know, we need to keep teaching this out.
I know what you do on the podcast is really important.
So, I'm glad we got,
we're able to get you in the clubhouse realm,
and let's grow this thing.
And whatever I can do to help out,
brother, you know that I'm all in, man.
All right, well, thanks for joining, everyone.
I was going to say, like myself,
and a lot of the audience, Doc and Peter,
we appreciate your time and your knowledge
that you're bringing to everybody,
and the help that you're bringing to the community
of spreading this plant.
And your stories are awesome as well.
Thank you.
All right, and with that,
I'm going to kill the YouTube broadcast.
