Yeah, I got introduced to Biochar not too long ago.
It's been brought to everyone's attention on the benefits of it.
And Clay, I'm fortunate enough to try his live soil as well as he makes Biochar.
And he approached me wanting me to give his Biochar a run.
So of course we jumped on it.
We do a lot of R&D.
We were happy to.
And we're really excited with the results and what we're seeing.
And I'm not the expert in Biochar, but Clay, tell me a little bit about, my understanding
is you can use and source different kind of wood to make Biochar.
And there's different grades and the outcome will be different on what kind of woods you're
choosing.
Tell me a little bit about what you're doing and why you do that.
What would you select?
We start with hardened softwoods.
One step up that we offer in our Biochar product is we also use coastal driftwoods.
The sea is amazing for plants.
So anything that those logs that could saturate in.
The Biochar is burnt to a specific degree.
Every creator of Biochar has their own degrees.
The Amazonians started it first, so obviously they didn't have thermometers.
They burn it to the point where my grandpa taught me, it's time to snuff it out.
So we kind of did that year after year after year.
I mean, before I bring it to any of you guys, I definitely had to run it in our medical
grows.
So we use hardwood, softwood, and the driftwood.
That kind of makes it a little bit different.
There's a lot of different Biochars.
You can make Biochar from straw.
That's right.
And it's not the same on the molecular level.
The straw isn't the same as the hardwoods like Madrona's and stuff like that.
It's mother nature's perfect store, perfect hotel for the microbes for your soil.
My understanding is you've moved on using some of Mammoth products.
Tell me some of the goodies that you're putting into your Biochar and your process,
your teas and your mix, and why that's so much better, why your product has become so
good.
Well, a lot of R&D.
Thousands of plants.
Biochar's whole process is to collect nitrogens and phosphorus from the soils after a fire
because there's no more foliage.
There's no more roots to be able to hold that stuff in the soil.
So mother nature doesn't want the year of rain to come along and wash all those minerals
away, so she created Biochar.
It actually collects it.
So what we do is we brew 26 organic ingredients, amendments, everything from green sand, crustacean
meal, alfalfa.
We have a few secret ingredients that once you're using it, you get told what those are,
but it can't give all the goodies away.
Yep.
You know how that goes.
And we actually brew three.
It's a timing thing.
We brew three different teas, and then towards the end, we actually add mammoth at the end
for the microbes.
Can't put them in too early or they'll eat everything before you plant.
Nice.
And I was fortunate enough to, you brought me, you're making live soil now.
He reached out to me and wanted me to try a run of his live soil, so we have.
It's very new to us, but do you want to tell us a little bit about that project and what
you're doing with your live soil line and how it's special?
Well it's special.
One of my best friends, besides Casey, he's Marley Worm Growers.
He sends worm castings all over.
Well a lot of the organic amendments that you can buy out here have one type of worm
castings.
We actually have five different types of worm castings in ours.
And he also makes soil, so then Casey and a few other growers that use our biochar were
like, well why don't you work on a soil?
So actually the last year, we ran different tests, this, that, and the other.
I've been building soils for 20 years, so it wasn't new to me, but to put a super soil
out there for this gentleman to risk $50,000 worth of his product on, that's something
big to ask.
And I think it's pretty dialed in.
It's start to harvest soil, no nutrients added, needed to be added, unless you're going to
run a long outdoor.
It's about four months is a good run.
If you're going to run a long outdoor, you want to top dress with some more biochar.
Clay, could you tell us a little bit about your soil making process?
You're making a live soil with biochar, part of your expertise and background with the
biochar.
Tell us that process and how you're selecting ingredients for your live soil, how that comes
to be.
Well, as a grower, you try everything.
Cocoa is amazing.
Peat moss is amazing.
Our living soil actually probably has more peat moss in it per bag than any other super
soil out there.
I prefer peat moss.
It is organic and created to also help the microbe growth.
Cocoa is a really good product also, but I just prefer the peat.
As a grower, and everybody's got their own choices, we use only 100% organic and naturally
collected amendments.
We start with micro and macro nutrients.
Do three different teas that we brew, and there's a certain order that we add stuff
to it.
That's been a test because then we test the soils and see what the runoff is, see what's
not staying, what is staying for different stages of your plant.
Our first brew, we start with a fish emulsion.
That fish emulsion is what speeds up that year-long process that Mother Nature needs
to go through after a fire because they needed to speed that process up.
Obviously, we harvest every week.
You got to have a new soil ready to go.
The microbes and the beneficial bacteria that grow in the fish emulsion is the first tea
that we start, and we slowly add the macro nutrients after that.
All the way from crustacean, alfalfa, meal, glacier silt, green sand.
We also use brown and black compost from Ole Mountain, very reputable company.
It's time.
If you think about it, you watch your compost go from colored to brown to black finally
when it's ready to go.
That's all that is.
Because we want you to be able to only water your whole cycle.
You got to have food in the beginning, and you got to have food available at the end.
What I'm hearing you say is brown and black compost, one's a little more hotter than the
other?
Correct.
One will affect your plant a little more.
Most of the black compost is now broken down and ready for your plant, ready for the microbes
to eat.
As your microbes are feeding on that compost in our soil, your brown compost is breaking
down.
By the time you're switching into flour, it's breaking down that high phosphorus, baguano,
which is what the cannabis plant needs.
For extra flour power, I like to say.
Timing is important.
It takes time to learn when to do your compost and stuff, but we took that out of the thought
process by using both composts.
I say we're really excited to run it.
Thank you for that, by the way.
I appreciate you running it.
It's been just not even two weeks now since we transplanted them.
We're following, taking data, and we'll get you the results.
We're excited to see what we can do.
I'm glad you guys, I'm glad you trusted me.
Absolutely.
I'll be at your door every day.
We'll make sure we get it.
Those are across all the Ts.
Those are definitely across all the Ts.
The microbes we add towards the end because they'll eat everything.
We're coming up, when you have living soil, you don't want to flush.
You hear people talk about flushing.
There is no flushing.
You want to drown your microbes.
I'm just saying, you don't want to wash those microbes out because they're doing the last
of their life trying to get that phosphorus out, trying to get the nitrogen out because
you don't want your cannabis to sparkle and crackle when you light it.
You want those microbes to eat up everything that's left in that soil.
We're going to actually make, we use in our own farm sugar finishes is what I call them.
They're organic extracts.
I make three different extracts depending on the strains.
We crush the biochar into a powder.
Add this with three different natural sugars.
As you water your last two weeks of the flowering cycle, that powder does what mother nature
wanted it to, works its way through your soil and takes out all that nitrogen, grabs that
all up.
It's not available to your microbes or your plant anymore.
What's left?
The sugar and the natural extracts that we use, the organic extracts, blueberry, huckleberry.
It just depends on the strain.
All those microbes have to feed on is that sugar, honey.
There's a few other items that we use that I don't want to say, but they are listed on
the product, of course, but that just leaves nothing else in the soil but natural sugars.
And then natural sugars, you know how sticky honey is.
Well feed your plant honey.
Tell me how sticky your buds are.
So Clay, what else, outside of what you've mentioned already, are you putting in your
super soil, your live soil?
Well obviously mammoth microbes is the last.
We also use, we're doing soils for other cannabis growers and hemp growers that want to use.
There's all kinds of microbes out there to use.
And there's different cultivators of those microbes.
So we're actually adjusting per farm if they ask.
So it does kind of change a little bit, but as far as, you know, the compost, there is
a little bit of that brown and black compost in the teas, but very little of it.
We actually add most of that to the super soil at the end.
Half the earthworm castings, there's five different earthworm castings that we use.
Two of them go in the teas, three of them are added to the super soil by themselves.
Everything from high phosphorus bat guano, low phos, calcium calmeg, we use ground up
oyster shells in it obviously, help the pH a little bit.
But mother nature, the biochar actually pHs for every plant.
You think how many plants start up after a forest fire, it ain't just a pine tree, you
know, it isn't just a weed, it has to be all the way across.
So even, we have some non-organic growers that are using a chemical based nutrients
that use our biochar because it does work, but they add these teas in between that to
help replace the microbes.
So just stay organic.
Yeah.
Then you don't have to do that.
So for some of your customers, you're providing your biochar, your soil to, if they're in
different areas, regions, or growing differently, say outdoors, or if it's in a greenhouse or
indoors, what are some of the changes that you're having to make or that they're wanting
maybe even for certain strains that they're running?
And what are those changes that you would do for your live soil?
For the live soil, the first change that I try and do, I don't play with the ingredients
so much, I play with the amount of biochar, the amount of perlite, the amount of peat
moss.
We'll play with that a little bit, but as far as the grow, if they're on a drip system,
most of my grows are watering once a week.
In a professional grow, that's a lot of labor, not being, you know, being used on better
things than holding a watering wand.
We will change it, basically, when it comes down to them, to the gardeners already using
it, it will change on just the amount of biochar that's added.
Some soils, heavy clay soils, 20-30% biochar.
I have a whole group of farmers that grow indoor fruit trees.
They're running their mixes, they're using it about 30%, which is even more than most
cannabis growers.
So we kind of adjust it per what their soil medium, whether they're going to use a soilless
or they're using our live soil.
That's pretty much, I don't adjust the recipe only because I think as being a chef for 15
years for the Hilton, I've got the mix down, I've got the Alfredo sauce pretty knocked
out.
And I'm not going to have my buddy over for dinner to try my Alfredo sauce if I haven't
already fed it to my own family.
We use our biochar and our vegetables, my mother's house plants, I mean, everything.
Have you made a change per strain?
Maybe if a customer has asked you, or do you know of, say, a strain, if it's Blue Dream
or Blueberry, that by tweaking your formula a little bit, now this is for the strain,
strain specific, that you get a different result or get that strain to reach its full
potential.
And what would those changes be?
A pretty well known strain that everybody knows.
Same way with, say, Blue Dream.
Had a Blue Dream cut for about 7 years.
It's amazing.
Everybody loves their Blue Dream, but we have a grower, Gorilla Glue No. 4, I actually use
it as one of my father's, or not Gorilla Glue No. 4.
We change it, we have changed it a bit because there are certain strains, there's land-raised
strains that have not been altered that come from other countries.
There's different minerals on every part of this rock.
So we have had to adjust depending on, we got a couple growers that grow Gorilla Glue
No. 4 strictly for edibles.
We have backed off, we backed off about half of our biochar and ingredients in our last
tee for that particular strain because anybody can grow it.
You can put it in a mud puddle and it would probably grow.
So yeah, we do adjust them because why am I going to have you pay for a full product
when I'm not putting all that in there?
I mean, I'm just not, you don't need it for certain strains.
Another one, God's Gift, very, very, very easily grown, very low nutrients, Blue Dream.
Now then on the other side, we got some land-raises, Afghani No. 1, that can be a 13-week strain.
Well it's going to need phosphorus a little bit longer than everybody else, especially
if you don't want to smoke leaf.
If you actually want some density to your flower, you got to kick up that low phos in
the beginning of flowering to make sure you actually get a bud instead of just...
Thank you, Clay.
You're welcome.
So at your presentation today, what are some of the key aspects you'd like to cover again?
What struck your fancy?
You know, the main takeaways from where I spoke, and very important, it varies per state.
Every state's different, but the main takeaway is you have to plan for change.
There's going to be change, change, change, and you have to plan, plan, plan.
And phasing your build-out or your planning is important because the future is unknown
and uncertain.
So most people that are building out to a large capacity want to phase that build and
there's unforeseens and you want to plan for that.
And if that's using mobile structures, maybe, you know, to... or not knowing if you're going
to... if your county or zoning will allow you to do extraction or put a moratorium on
that area or limit your extraction to the market itself changing and suddenly, you know,
your farm might be extremely competitive and now you want to build a kitchen, you know,
you want to launch an edible line or a topical line.
So much is unforeseen.
So the main takeaway is plan for change.
There'll be a lot of change and you have to kind of forecast for that and always keep
that in mind.
I think another big one from my conference, my presentation is all the different government
agencies and their regulations and how you have to abide by them all and they're all
different and they all have their own requirements and it makes it challenging and those can
change as well.
And trying to... when you're looking for a site to... or starting your business, you
know, you have to take into consideration your local authority and the state, the city,
the county, you know, clean air, health department, department of ecology, the planning department,
fire marshal.
Your neighbors.
Yep, your neighbors.
And those are all going to vary depending on where you are.
You know, different county will have different requirements and even one of the things I
wanted to talk more on and we didn't was the hoop houses and how in my county that's considered
a temporary structure.
But they didn't have a definition for what a hoop house was a year ago.
And in some other counties, they don't consider a hoop house a structure.
And now the Clean Air Agency has come in and they're trying to regulate us being able to
grow a hoop house, this temporary structure, and they're wanting to police, you know, if
you don't have a hoop house or you're not growing, you know, this was March, last month
of this year, you're not able to now grow in one.
This is the Clean Air Agency which is in Spokane County.
You know, it's kind of their own authority and they're not a planning department.
It's something that you think the county would be policing and telling you what you
can do in a structure and you have this other government agency coming in and we had to
file an exemption to be able to grow in these temporary structures.
And we're not exempt of anything.
And that's a yearly now fee I have to pay.
And they want us to give them my harvest schedules, you know, which is putting my team at risk.
And there's proprietary information there.
And in another county, it's completely different.
You know, they might not even have a Clean Air Agency in that county.
Hoop houses aren't even considered a temporary structure, a structure at all.
So all of that is going to play a huge role in where you're going to build and what your
plan is and, you know, get yourself up to success, you know, basically.
So doing all your homework is basically a large one.
Adaptation.
You got to be open.
Another main takeaway is, you know, and I feel that this drastically is your budget,
you know, whatever my budget was, I failed at that.
And, you know, now for me, it's just double it.
You know, there's going to be so many unforeseen costs that you cannot plan on or you wouldn't
imagine.
And so you have to it's just really hard to get your budget down for what you're working
with.
So, you know, that was a huge one for me is just whatever you think your budget is, double
that budget.
Time to buy two.
There's going to be unforeseen things and things you're going to be required to do and
new licenses and permits and government agencies coming in trying to get a piece of the pie,
you know, like the Clean Air Agency or.
And so, yeah, those are the those are the takeaways mostly, you know, plan, plan, plan,
do your homework, your budget, whatever you think you need, you're going to need more.
And also contracts.
When you're dealing with your contractors, you know, roofers, electricians, a lot of
these guys, this is new to all of us, right?
The cannabis industry commercial at this scale, especially to the government agencies.
So we're all on this vertical learning curve and they're not they're not going to know
how to design a growth.
They're not going to know where you need power and why and how much, you know, your architect's
not going to know that your head grower and the way he envisions his system or his method.
He has to work with this architect, with the electrician.
And so there's just everybody's really on a large vertical learning scale, which is
exciting.
Everybody's learning.
And that's another reason for all the change as they learn and figure out what's going
on.
There'll be changes that will be for the positive and for the negative to a business owner or
to a grower, to the county, to the city.
But I think those were those are the main takeaways.
Oh, yeah.
It's been it's been as a indoor and outdoor.
I help with a lot of different grows and the Clean Air Act that they put together.
And it's going to happen in every state.
There's going to be some states that don't care and there's going to be some that three
or four different agencies pop up and they go, you know, I mean, really a hoop out of
a house.
I mean, there's cattle farms that are putting off more CO2 into the air than we could ever
think of doing.
And are they getting charged by the acre or are they even getting charged for clean air?
I mean, you know, it's just kind of it really hit it really hit a lot of farms.
We're struggling.
And so I can understand them needing wanting to get their piece of the pie.
But they could have, you know, give give your state five years, give your give your
investors five years.
These people are putting out their entire life savings into these places.
And there's more and more things keep popping up.
Really, you have to be like Casey said, have two times the amount in your investment book
than what you're planning on actually spending, because it changes.
It'll change next week.
It's going to change again in the next month.
Yep.
Month to month.
It changes packaging rules, labeling rules, security rules.
You can set your main game plan up, but definitely leave some quotations for adaptation on it
because it changes.
You're right.
Yeah.
One of the panels that I enjoyed and it was it was today and it was the breeding panel.
You know, a lot of what we do at Contender Gardens is the R&D and the strain selection
and and running these strains in different environments and seeing where we can get the
best of the best and what we're looking for.
Right.
The the bag appeal, the vigorous growth, the resistance to pathogens and insects.
And we're really big on that research.
And I enjoyed the panel today on the breeding.
It was really good to hear them talk about auto flowers, feminized auto flower seeds.
We do see that becoming more and more of a big deal because in the past it wasn't.
Yeah.
Yeah.
In the world, but in the US and the gentleman that spoke, Mr. Loud, did say how, you know,
how he wouldn't even consider or look at feminized auto flowers, you know, not not too long ago,
a couple of years ago, but how he's looking and seeing things a little differently now
from from going to a greenhouse, from talking to another breeder.
And that's that's been the truth for me as well, where, you know, auto flowers weren't
really interesting.
And now we're seeing the breeding and the auto flower, what we have now to work with,
the stock has changed.
And, you know, when you can get two or three times your canopy in a season when before
it wasn't really an option or you wouldn't consider it.
I mean, that's that's huge.
You know, that's that's really doubling, doubling up your your yield and doubling up your sales.
We're going to do them at two locations this season, the auto flowers.
We've already sprouted them and we have more going in.
So I'm really excited to run them.
And I have interest in in perhaps providing some of the seed stock, these auto flowers
to some of our other fellow farmers and in Washington state, because you see more and
more of them running them and wanting to get that second, third crop in the year.
A lot of potential there.
I'm glad they touched on the feminized auto flower seeds because it is it is up and coming.
I was at first not so happy with them either.
I don't have time.
I clone.
I'm a breeder myself, but I had the fortunate enough the last couple of years to be able
to run some some pretty decent strains of auto flowers.
And I'll tell you what, they'll be a part of my grow from now on.
Now, I'll never always go because I love the propagation process of the plant.
But definitely for that third run, you got space and you need canopy space to fill out.
I definitely know 20 some years ago and I would say, you know, fill it in with your
auto flowers.
You've gotten a lot better to your first seeds.
I had no one so impressed.
But now the breeders that are that are working with those are getting a lot more reputable,
a lot more time under their belt.
And they're a lot.
I think there will be a game changer and you'll see a huge push and evolution with feminized
auto flower seeds.
Farmers in my state are now using them to fill their canopy or their rows or their cells.
They'll just plant them in between their full season plants or where they they have their
plants laid out.
And then you'll just see those come in and just sprout their entire field earlier to
get that extra crop.
And you'll see the higher potency auto flowers, the bigger yields and the denser, the denser
bud as as the breeders.
And we have moved forward on this on this project.
But the demand for them is is is apparent.
You know, I would say that I think we have all known just from from breeders in the past
and breeders today that, you know, breeders are, you know, have bottlenecked a lot of
strains.
And so all these varieties and types have gone away because we have, you know, found
things we liked and used those to breed and kind of took the best of the best to breed
with.
And so we have less of a selection today than we did, you know, 10, 20 years ago.
And so and breeders will acknowledge this and understand that that's true.
This has happened.
And so there's some pros and cons to that.
You know, obviously we get some really good hybrids and the best of the best with today's
today's breeding and stock that comes from it.
But at the same time, we've left behind a lot of types that we might not have anymore,
don't have access to that are no, you know, we're forgotten about or not used.
I'm popping a couple seeds out of my seed bank this year.
I can't wait to get home and see them.
I got a I was gifted a 1970s humble or a 1970s Amsterdam haze.
It was smuggled out of Amsterdam.
I don't know how, but I'm popping the beans.
Pretty excited to try it.
Something that comes to mind for me, and these aren't really strains that are our land race
or or, you know, ancient or stuff you can't find.
But I remember a Mazar was something that I was really into that we got our hands on
early, early on in the 2000s.
And there was a G blue that we really liked that I haven't seen around.
It's not an old ancient strain.
This was in early 2000s as well.
Trinity was another one.
And but yeah, that G blue was something that we would love to to get our hands on again.
The G 13 across G 13 was one of my first strains.
Back in the day, ordering seeds, peeking out the window, watching for your local mailman.
Has he got a bad?
Yeah, you know, I think our parents maybe would be the, you know, somebody to to ask
on that, you know, someone who's substantially older than me that was into the into the scene
and now, you know, doesn't hear has not found that strain again, you know, just inexistent.
Yeah.
Because I think I'm still on the on the younger generation, you know, as for for when I started
cultivating and up till this point, there's you know, I didn't grow up consuming in the
80s, you know, or, you know, I was a kid, 70s, you know, wasn't even alive.
So there's a lot of strains that I wouldn't even have any idea that don't exist anymore.
