Hello everybody and welcome again to another garden journey season 2 episode 1.
For those of you in future cannabis projects and in my original channel that haven't checked
out season 1, please check it out.
We have season 2 here and a whole new run and we've got a lot of fun stuff going on
in our year-round greenhouse up here in the cold white north.
Luckily enough we have this beautiful heated space to be able to have a lot of fun and
unique plant varieties.
I hope you all are excited to take this journey with me.
I'm going to try and stop by once a week and show you what's going on in my garden so we
can all get growing together.
As you can see about 7 days from now these Aco Coco Golds which have been vegging out
for a little while will be popping into my flower tent.
They're looking lovely, even and nicely.
A little canopy.
Don't forget to like and subscribe for those watching in a future cannabis project and
on my own channel.
We appreciate your following and all that little bits and bobs.
It's awesome to have you here.
We have some peppers and habaneros which have been interesting and there's been a little
bit of trouble with them but we are getting the plant up and the heat up as well so hopefully
things should come up a little bit better.
As you can see we're going to jump into my collard.
My collard greens that were featured in last year's season 1 are still growing beautifully.
We took another harvest out of those on the weekend.
We were able to have a great dinner with them.
It was absolutely delicious.
I am currently hunting through a few velvet skies now.
Naturally of course I have a very small greenhouse so my phenol hunt is a whole 3 plants.
It's been an exciting little one and I've got these ready to go in the tent in about
6 weeks.
Clones cut off and ready to go so we'll see how those turn out.
I did do a phenol hunt with those earlier.
I didn't do a phenol hunt.
I planted one seed and ran it through earlier this year and it was excellent.
Beautiful genetics.
We're excited to see how things turn out this year.
Now let's get out of this greenhouse and into the flower tent because we have some frosty
nuggets for each and every one of you.
As you can see the cover crop is going crazy and the plants are taking off like no tomorrow.
These were lemon quiche headband and they're planted with a cover crop of about 13 or 14
different varieties of small flowers, vegetables and everything.
At the end of this we should be able to harvest a few vegetables out.
This is lemon quiche headband phenol 3.
It's not the one you've seen before but definitely a great plant.
It's got a little bit of stretch in it and allows a little bit more air flow but this
plant is quite beautiful and quite delicious.
It grows very very nicely especially with this cover crop heavily growing as you can
see.
I'll let these plants speak for themselves for a little bit.
For those of you that were fortunate enough to be able to join in on future cannabis projects
Sunday feature of Fire is Fire we're lucky enough to check out these amazing fire genetics.
Now Chaz who was their future guest on the show provided this beautiful plant for me
and it is one frosty frosty frosty plant.
It is sitting at day 31 now and is well on its way to be harvested in nine weeks.
I'm excited to take this down.
It is looking amazing.
I'm really impressed.
Two weeks now to harvest and it will be hanging to dry.
I am pumped to have this in my garden.
Thank you Chaz.
I appreciate it.
