Let's cue it up with that.
Dum da da dum.
Microphone check one two what is this the five foot assassin with a rough neck business
I float like gravity never had a cavity got more rhymes and winnings got family.
Are we live can someone let me know.
I have to go check myself.
The man in the yellow hat.
All right, I gotta go.
Yes.
All right.
Amazing.
Thank you, everybody.
That is me, Peter.
Welcome, Tyler.
Welcome.
Thank you for joining us.
So, Tyler, there was some requests for some family tree seeds.
We're ready to sling some seeds.
We're going to dig into the vault and Tyler is going to tease us with some stuff coming
down the pipe.
Oh, yes.
You can basically that website scrolling across the bottom is where you can go if something
is of interest.
Tyler is going to one by one talk through with who is the Ron Pepe, right?
You know who Ron Pepe is?
The legendary infomercial guy.
Tyler is our winner.
He's an aspiring infomercial host, I guess.
I got seeds and more seeds.
We're going to go through what we have right now and we're going to talk about what Ron
Pepe.
Thank you, Spot Check News, for all the people who are like, who the fuck are they talking
about?
So, just quickly, today is Wednesday.
On Monday in our seven-hour marathon, I'm going to talk to Shelby tomorrow because she's
off work.
But, I mean, we raised between, I want to say, nearing $15,000, which is amazing.
Yeah, yeah, it's great.
For me, the less fun part is going on now and tomorrow, which is like mapping YouTube
names to winning bids to real names to did they pay to all the other logistical nightmares.
Totally.
The rabbit holes.
But anyway, with that being said, we're going to have some fun today.
And I think Dark Horse is going to be raising some more money tonight.
That reminds me I got to text him.
But anyway, we're going to feature Family Tree Seeds today.
This is Tyler and Josh is going to join us in a minute.
That's his Instagram.
If you want to check out some beautiful, what do you have, an iPhone?
Some iPhone photography.
Yeah, I got a little macro filter that I've been working on, a little attachment, which
is getting some good trikes shot.
But it's an iPhone for sure.
Excellent.
Purple Thumb OG, I'll enable that again tomorrow because I wanted to simplify things.
So like when you go to that website, you're only going to see Family Tree Seeds stuff.
And then I figured I'd dumb it down so it's not just a mess of stuff.
Someone loves the bacon grease.
I have some bacon grease.
Speaking of which, when I came home, what was that like last Saturday that we hung out?
When I came home, I had all this stuff in the garage and my wife from upstairs was like,
it stinks down there.
Did you open weed?
Or she's like, did you bring more home?
I was like, no.
That's not the right sentence.
So I've been keeping it in the C vault outside.
Yeah, I can't soak it up right now because the nanny's right next to me in the next room
over and my wife looks down on my weed smoking.
But at night when everybody's in bed, that's...
I'll talk for you, man.
I'll talk for you.
I'm free of all responsibility for the next hour and a half.
So we're good.
But yeah, so we're going to quickly, we're going to power through this stuff because
I got to finish cooking dinner at about 535.45.
So why don't we just go right down the...
Right down the line.
Yeah, right down the line in...
There's Brandon.
What's up, Brandon?
I think we're going to do something either on Friday or Saturday and I do owe you a phone
call, but I've been running around with my head cut off.
Brandon, if you can post, if you can tease everybody with the genetics you have coming
down the pipe.
So-so.
I dreamed I had money.
Yeah.
That's why we had the $50 packs the other day.
All right.
Well, let's, let us start with...
And I do not have my Vanna White yet, which is Josh, but you want to start with the dog
beach?
Sure, sure.
Yeah.
So basically what we're doing, we're going to open up the vault and some of the stuff
that is the last of what we got and some of the stuff that was just small production
numbers is all the things that just kind of sit in there that should go out to people
to grow.
Good stuff sitting there, just, you know, there's magic just waiting to be found.
So we decided we're going to open up the vault and start releasing some of the stuff that
isn't out there on the streets.
You can't currently usually get very easily.
Some of the things you will, some of the things you'll never see.
The dog beach, Dog Beach BX.
There's only, I think, less than 10 packs of that available.
It is a killer, killer plant.
Very sativa dominant, very mellow, pretty darn uniform when it comes to like morphological
characteristics.
She's very lanky with these big old golf balls, extremely resinous, lots and lots and lots
of like, like pineapples and like ice creams and smooth and tropical type tones come off
of there.
That one right there, that's, that was one of the, one of the phenos that came in that
had a really nice chem type grease to it.
Dog Beach BX, it's a cross originally of the Dog Walker OG, one of my favorites, and the
old Pam.
It's like the project that I'm always working on.
I'm trying to put gas into the Pam.
So everything that's extremely nasty and gassy and chem-y always tries to get run through
the Pam.
So along the way I found...
So actually, can you stick on that for a second?
Yeah.
Can you talk about Pam and I love that it's like your, your compass and can you describe
kind of how you use it in your breeding?
So like, what is Pam?
Like set the table, cause that's, that's the base, right?
Pam is...
Yeah, yeah, just, yeah, that's my, that's basically like, you know, if you've got something
calibrated, that's what I'm calibrated to.
That's everything kind of runs through her.
I've been growing her a long time.
She's my oldest clone.
I know her in, out, upside down and backwards.
Pam is originally old bag seed from, you know, a collection of random stuff from the late
nineties up until about 2003, 2004 tops.
It's probably somewhere right around 2001 is where, you know, I'm almost positive is
the time period there.
Basically I collected a bunch of old bag seeds when we were, when we were youngsters running
around, anything that was extra special and good, I kind of put, put aside.
And when I got some space later on in life, I kind of found that old pack, old seeds at
the right time in my life and decided to, you know, see what, see what came out of there.
So out of that came Pam's mother.
And I then was able to get Pam's mother to give me some seed.
I was able to select Pam out of the group of seed that I was, I was, I was gifted from,
from old SMS Pam's mother.
And Pam is, she's very close to a, to land race.
If you know, one or two spots removed back in the, you know, back in the late nineties,
early two thousands, we still had stuff kind of coming in and out.
A little seasonal.
We had, we had a lot of, a lot of traffic, a lot of stuff was happening to where we were,
we were just starting to build the current modern gene pool that we have today.
And there were more old sativa stuff and people were bringing stuff back from all over the place.
And here in San Diego, we got a collection of everybody.
It's one of the most diverse plant populations on planet earth.
It's also one of the most people diverse populations on planet earth.
Everybody kind of comes here and there's a transplant from somewhere else.
So with that come genetics and other stuff.
So it's from breeding it over the last four generations and doing different back crosses
and things like that through the years, I've kind of narrowed it down to like some sort
of Himalayan ramp land race, even looking at like the, the whaling Valley area, stuff like that.
But there's no definitive proof.
I sent it off to Phylos years ago to try to figure out what the hell she was.
Cause I was in love with it.
I was growing it, I was keeping it and I wanted to better breed with it to know what was closely related,
what was, what was far away.
So I knew how to make better choices in my breeding projects with her.
And she came back not related to the current, you know, galaxy.
So she was, she was kind of an odd ball that just kind of sat alone there,
which, which told me she was special and we needed to do a little bit more testing
and stuff to figure out exactly where she, where she laid.
But what I know is she's, she's a bitch in land race type, higher elevation, Sativa dominant,
wants to, wants to grow somewhere between six and 12 foot tall, depending on how you're doing it,
where you're doing it. Awesome, high elevation, resin, grease, colors, purples, pinks, gunmetal blues.
But through the years of keeping her and trying to figure out what the hell she was and kind of running around,
it's been my own little, you know, my own little project and my own little passion.
That's how I've learned so much about what she does, how she breeds, what she, what she offers,
what she's capable of, what happens when I breed other things to her.
So anytime I find another male or I find something that I want to start a project with,
everything goes through Pam one, the original, the original clone.
She, she kind of has my compass, like Peter's saying, she kind of tells me what that male brings to the table
or what that female brings to the table if I'm doing reversals and stuff.
Basically, I can always kind of count on seeing where Pam lies in the offspring.
I can kind of pick, pick out, you know, different characteristics right off the bat.
I've seen it over and over again.
So sometimes you find males that make an impact, which is really rare with Pam because she breeds really strong.
She's very, very, you know, very, very strong breeder.
And those males that make a big impact on her, I usually, you know, stick out with.
Whoops.
Oh my gosh.
I was on the edge of my seat.
Tyler will be back.
Josh, show thyself.
Can you hear me?
I sure can.
Okay.
My mic wasn't working when I came in.
You boot me out.
You came in, you boot me out.
Oh my God.
It was, I was on the edge of my seat and then you, you, you left.
So, so yeah, yeah, yeah.
Carry on.
No, it's all good.
So yeah, so she's my compass basically.
And anything new that comes through the stable, I can breed with Pam and I can know what that, what that other genetic brings to the table.
So I can kind of make educated decisions on, on, on how, how to breed and how to get out of what I, you know, get out of the project, what I'm looking to get out of it.
So Dog Beach was one of those projects.
And the thing with Pam is she, she's tough.
She clones easy.
She's low maintenance.
She's resistant to lots of, you know, different pressures.
She doesn't give me a lot of headache.
She's delicious.
She has good modern type bud structure and qualities to her, like for good travel.
She just doesn't have any gas.
She's very bubble gum.
She's very like, I would say big league too, like great big league chew and cheese.
Early on in her life, she gets like, you know, this, she's like fruity and great big league chew and this really complex candies and these things.
But as you let her go and chill, she'll get real musty and wine and, and cheesy.
And if you, if you dig into her, you'll get, you'll get some of those, those berry tones and those things in there because they're in there.
But she'll, she'll definitely get more foul as, as you let her go, but she doesn't get the gas.
She has some skunk in there.
She's got some, some funk in there.
She's got some mustiness in there, some body odor, but she doesn't have like that, that chem fuel or that, that, that quintessential gas.
So a lot of my projects have been find that fuel that I love.
Those plants that I'm passionately like, damn, I love that fuel.
Like dog Walker, you know, SFE's and triangle cushions, Hell's Angels, and like all these, all these different, you know, chem crosses GMOs.
I love that.
I want to put that into Pam.
So that dog beach BX was a project where I made the dog beach, dog Walker to Pam and out of that offspring, a really funky tropical fruity thing with, with the chem grease came out of it.
It didn't have any of the gas, but it was so special and so like delightful to smoke.
It was just such a fucking pleasure to smoke that I, I was going to work with it.
So I decided that I took, I took the clones that I made and I decided to, to cross it again with, with a Pam, with a Pam stud and make that BX and see what happened, what came out and what came out of those pictures.
There are those, you've got those, just those spear.
She's really tall and lanky and you'll get these just full on arms with just like pine cone, pine cone, pine cone, pine cone.
And they almost touch each other.
They grow, those bugs will grow right up to the next bottom, which is great because she didn't get a lot of, not a lot of moles, not a lot of mildews that way.
She's got just, you know, a lot of individual, you know, individualism.
You can see it.
She just kind of just like, they just kind of stack and snake right up to the, to the trunk of the, to the bottom of that next bud.
And they don't fill in right there at the bottom, which allows good air movement.
But the density is just on point.
And the, the, the flavors, it wasn't, there's no, the gas is few and far between.
And this one, it's, it's one of those, it doesn't have the gas.
It's got more of that fruit, more of that cream, a lot of the like cream, Lifesaver, pineapple.
There's vapor rub in there.
You know, you get a little bit of that vapor rub and that minty vapor rub type tone.
Very cool plants.
Very interesting.
Very durable.
I was stoked this year.
My jar, and actually right here, I was just, I just grabbed a little paper bag of some nugs and I'm spreezing in here.
And there's just a bunch of different things.
There's dog walker in here, there's Pam in here, there's dog beach in here.
And right here is dog beach number two right here.
And it's delicious.
It's pine, you know, it's one of those things that I've been, I've reached for.
Came out of that stock.
And it's not like this wretched out of this world, sit you down type ganja.
It's more sativa dominant.
It's got some lift.
You'll feel it behind the eyes and you'll get, you know, you'll get an extreme effect from it substantially.
But it's not a, it's not an indica type feeling if you're going to compare it to indica sativa type.
So it's not an indica type feeling very much at all for me.
It's really nice and uplifting, fruity, just kind of smooth and clean, you know, really nice smoke.
This number two again.
And what is left out of that seed stock is what I got.
I got to regen Cico and then I just had just one or two packs laying around.
So we just, we just collected what we had left.
And I think it's less, like I said, less than 10.
And just quickly, Nick has already bought a pack.
So, so yeah, so hold on.
So, uh, and I'm purple bush.
It's not an option.
Yeah, Nick, if you want to come on, uh, let me know.
He's actually breeding.
He's actually breeding with the Pam male right now.
Wait, you know who Nick is?
Yeah, he's doing.
Yeah, he's doing some work with the Pam.
He, uh, he lost most of his stuff and he had, uh,
I think he bought multiple packs.
Good God.
He bought, I know he bought two Pam Anderson.
Nick, you jumped the gun.
But anyway, he's thinking that he's thinking, um,
side up there, man.
So anyway, this is not an auction.
This is literally just there's shit you can buy and it has a set price and you can go buy it.
And there's not much of it.
Uh, the place you can go to buy it is right there.
And Nick has already slid on over to that website.
Uh, and I think bought up all the Pam.
Uh, I know he, he, he, he, yeah, sorry.
He bought one, uh, pack of Pam's, uh, the F2s.
Um, but anyway, um, what's Mr.
Tree's Instagram handle.
Give me one second.
Yeah.
Everybody, while you're watching, uh, you can admire the iPhone camera work on family tree seeds over on Instagram.
Um, but, uh, yeah, so it's not an auction.
You can just go to that website.
We're just going one by one down everything that's currently available.
And Ron is going to give a, uh, he's going to be as descriptive as only Ron Poupae can be.
Um, but, uh, yeah, sorry.
No, go ahead.
Do you see that?
Oh, yeah, there you go.
Right.
We'll, we'll, we'll add those, uh, throw those up there.
And like, and when I, after dinner, I'll put the shirts and hoodies up too, but, uh, we're working on it, man.
I appreciate that.
I was going to say there's, there's only, um, 14 packs, I guess 13 now of those Pam F2s period.
I, I, I period period.
Yeah.
There were only 75 put out into the world and, you know, um, they all had numbers.
Individuals that, that of that Pam F2 generation.
So, um, you got almost all of them and I just had a couple of, so Nick got one and there's 13 left, but Nick's way ahead of us.
Cause we're not even on that, but, uh, yeah, so there's 13 out of that 75.
Yeah.
Next time.
I'm working, but yeah, the BX is, they didn't give me any problems.
I didn't do any, like, I didn't do any heavy spraying of any kind.
I didn't do any heavy feeding of any kind.
I didn't do any training of any kind.
I kind of just, you know, to, to, to get true information, you want to run things out, let them do what they want to do naturally.
For the most part, they got one topping maybe in the very beginning, maybe I don't even remember if I did that or not.
But yeah, like you said, you get these arms, you get three or four big, nice arms, just those pine cone, pine cone, pine cone, pine cone, pine cone.
Uh, it's not, not a ton of leaf.
It was a lot of nice, you know, flower material, which was really nice.
It was pretty easy to flick off a couple of things.
Um, I mean, they were, they were a pleasure to grow when it comes down to it.
There are some absolute gems.
The one, the number two, that there's one of my favorite ones out of the group to, to smoke.
Um, it wasn't the one that I selected in the beginning that I was like going to be like, I'll actually keep this one.
It's after all was said and done that number two was like, wow, this is really, really a pleasure for me.
You know, it's really smooth and delicious and just kind of just really clean.
It's just, it was pineapple, pineapple, pineapple cream, I think is, you know, the best way I can think.
It's a very interesting thing.
Um, but yeah, it wasn't the one that I picked.
It was a beautiful plant and it was gorgeous, but the one that I thought was going to be the, you know, the one, the winner turned out I didn't enjoy smoking that one as much as I did with these ones.
So they're, they all look morphologically similar.
The resin type varies a little bit.
Um, the bud shape is pretty damn close.
Some are a little rounder, some are a little pointier, but really they do the same thing.
So, um, that's just a cool plant.
It's a, it's a cool plant.
So grab them while you can.
There ain't very many, and I ain't making any more of that one because it wasn't the overall goal of the, of the cross.
So just quickly, Cheddar Bob, as we said, literally three minutes ago, probably before you arrived, it's not an auction.
You can just go to that website and buy what he's talking about.
We got about 10 different things that he's going to walk us through, but he's starting on the Dog Beach Bat Cross.
Dog Beach BX.
And up next is the, uh, whoops, the Flamingo.
Oh, Flamingo.
Yep.
All right.
So, uh, Flamingo has been around.
It's been out and about.
It is a killer medical strain.
So this one's for people who want, who want to enter into the, uh, you know, the one to one more CBD dominant type strains, things like that.
Um, Flamingo Ringo is a cross of an isolated pink pistol, uh, CBD God Bud.
Uh, it's basically this awesome, if you know God Bud from all the old high times magazines,
it's a really sparkly, uh, beautiful flower.
Uh, usually, uh, I think it's from Canada up there and up in Canada side, uh, but a killer Indica heavy fat leaf, beautiful plant.
Uh, basically they were growing them up there.
Um, they were out, we'll address that.
Uh, well, they were growing them up there in Canada and they had grown thousands of bud, you know, God Bud seeds.
And out of, uh, all of a sudden one little neon pink hair God Bud popped up in the mix and also had 4% CBD on board.
So they were like, yo, this is a special plant.
It was right when CBD was getting kind of popular and kind of being uncovered and discovered.
And, uh, they pulled that out and started working with that for their CBD line.
And, uh, they ended up crossing that with a Harlequin, a big 7% CBD tested male Harlequin, badass stud, uh, to really make it a CBD lockdown.
And then I got a bunch of those seeds and out of those seeds, I found the plant that I was hoping for.
It was an Indica squat, awesome plant, which, you know, I grew lots of Pam stuff.
So I didn't have a lot of Indica in my, in my lineup at that time.
I do now, but I didn't at that time.
And I was like, oh, this is great.
And it had that neon pink characteristic inside and outside.
It wasn't, it's not a, it's not an outside, you know, trait.
Like you get when you grow a plant outside, sometimes without a response, uh, the Flamingo Ringo, the true pink ones, those ones will, will flip either way.
They're, they're beautiful.
And, um, found that plant.
It also was carrying a little bit of the CBD, but it was THC dominant.
And then at that same time, I was running through a bunch of other CBD stuff and I had a Ringo's gift, uh, male that had pulled aside that I had tested.
And that was a, it was a CBD dominant, awesome structure, tough as hell Ringo's gift, uh, male.
And I used that to hit that, uh, CBD God bud with and boom, that's where, that's where the Flamingo Ringo was born.
And then, uh, you know, I took it another generation to isolate that pink trait and, um, the seeds that, uh, I pulled out, I pulled out two different ones.
I pulled out a pink one, which is that one there.
And then I pulled out another one that didn't have the pink hairs, but it had an awesome one-to-one, strong one-to-one trait.
And it had like an unbeatable, like heart and spirit.
It, it, it would go through droughts and you couldn't kill it.
You couldn't kill it.
I mean, it was hard for us at that one right there.
It had great resin and you, you couldn't kill that plant.
And it was a solid one-to-one.
I was pretty damn enjoyable at papaya, papaya and grandma's perfume, like terpenes is the way that I kind of describe it.
It was like papaya, like, like papaya, something funky papaya and like grandma's purse or grandma's perfume.
Uh, it's a great plant, but they're going to, like I said, they're, they're going to be one-to-one dominant.
You're going to get those, those pinks popping through because it's like four generations of pink, pink on pink on pink.
Um, and, um, you know, there it's, it's a cool, that's the daddy.
That's that, the flamingo, Ringo daddy right there, that purple.
He tested out at a two-to-one CBD to THC ratio.
Uh, also was bulletproof, killer frigging stem.
Um, but yeah, he was purple.
His flowers were just gorgeous.
I mean, he's a showstopper.
You, I'm sad.
I don't have them anymore.
I kept him around for several years and then, uh, I lost him in the great root aphid debacle.
Uh, I forget the year, but I'll, I'll attach a year to that, you know?
Uh, but yeah, that's, uh, it's one of those things.
So, but it's, uh, anybody looking for like a shorter squat ear, good branching medical strain or strain for, for mom or a strain for, for grandpa or something, or a strain for somebody who's getting into pot or, uh, um, an actual straight medicinal strain.
I make lots of, like, I don't do a lot of smoking of the flamingo Ringo, unless it's the pink one, the pink line in them I'm finalizing and I'm making out of the, out of this, which is, it's going to be, it'll look similar to that.
It's a pink one, just like that.
And that one's coming out, you know, soon.
Um, but it's, it's got like this chem, chem grease to it and neon pink every time.
And as soon as I can make sure that every single seed that I plan is that way, which they're pretty much are at this point, um, I'm going to release a good batch of those.
Um, this one is going to be a mixture of the two.
You're going to get the pinks really heavily in there and then you're going to get those one to ones really heavily in there, which is really cool.
And those are both beautiful type plants.
Um, but it's definitely good for making extracts, butters, uh, rosins into whatever, um, different stuff like that.
Uh, very good medicinal.
My, my, my auntie, um, and uncle, they use it for their arthritis and stuff with some, you know, some success, uh, batch to batch.
Uh, they're really like, there's, there's some, they're like, Oh my God, this fixes the problem every time.
And there's some that's like, Oh, it's Len.
It's just because of where it's grown, how it's grown, who's growing it and stuff like that.
I've had it tested out, uh, you know, two or three of them, uh, you know, good reports and stuff, same lab.
So, you know, we, you know, kind of consistent results, but they always, she always tests out at about 11%, 11%, you know, 12%, 12%, right.
You know, CBD to THC, and there are some other minor cannabinoids in there.
Um, but it's, uh, it's a pretty cool one.
Um, it's definitely one that, you know, if you're looking, looking to get somebody into it, you're looking to not have something that's going to hurt somebody.
You're looking for something that doesn't give you any type of paranoia, no, you know, issues or any of those negative things.
Um, yeah, one, that's a one-to-one strand right there, right there for you, man.
Those are, those are great.
Um, one, one-to-one, two-to-ones all day and they're, they're a pleasure.
Um, but yeah, that's Flamengo Ringo.
And like I said, it's pretty cool that, that I, you can kind of split off the lines a little bit and kind of go and I, you know, make that one definitive one-to-one because that pink trait, that pink and pink and grease trait is always more THC dominant, which I like that.
I like that.
And the hubbles like that too, but it's not a one-to-one strain, which is popular in a lot of other countries and which I think will be more popular in the future.
No.
I think you've adequately described and sold that one.
I like that one, man.
It's a good one.
I still grow.
So it sits here and I grow it, you know, so it's, you know, it's worth something.
Okay.
You ready for the next one?
Yes, sir.
We got Hubble and go.
I wish I still had some Hubble.
Hubble is the greatest because it's one of my first to ripen.
It always saves me.
Right towards the, you know, the end of August or so, you know, resources are running tight.
It's hot and miserable.
Your ganja from last season is all begun and all you've got in your view is Hubble.
And Hubble is bitching because it's greasy.
It's got that chem characteristic, that dog walker, OG Kush type just nastiness that we know and love.
And it ripens really early.
It's very, very cool plant.
That right there, that one is the phenotype number two.
I call that phenotype number two.
That is your CBD dominant or one to one CBD phenotype of the Hubble.
Then there's phenotype number one, which is that one right there.
And that's got the grease of the chem and the dog walker characteristics, the shape.
And just that's the one that I look for.
That one's a heavy THC dominant plant with just a little squinch of CBD on board, you know, like 25, 22, 24 percent THC with, you know, 4 percent CBD, 3 percent CBD, 5 percent CBD, depending on what you're doing, which is really cool.
Helps lengthen the high smoke.
You take a rip and instead of, you know, it wearing off really quick, you've got some good long carry to it.
It also takes away the paranoia.
You have that additional medical benefit, but you're still getting lifted, which is nice.
And Hubble is great for that.
And I always like, I'm like, thank you Hubble because it comes early.
And I'm always like, you can, you know, you can thank your lucky stars because it's never, you know, it's a can of crap.
He got that as a freebie.
I think he got some orchard lady from me, I think, or he got something from me and something happened and he didn't end up growing those and he ended up popping the Hubble's.
And I just made those and I gave him a pack for free and he ended up popping the Hubble and he found a couple of gems just in a couple of seats, you know, and there were some sharp looking, greasy phenotype number ones, you know what I mean?
Which is really, really neat.
He enjoyed the shit out of them.
He had some, he was saying, I think it was like a tape, like a 3M tape and it's like, like glues and these funky, just nasty, you know, chemical type smells were coming out for him, which is cool.
It's a cross of Dog Walker OG, which is you can't beat that son of a bitch.
And the Flamingo flower stud from the Flamingo Ringo that we were looking at just a few minutes ago, that's daddy.
He fathered, made babies with Dog Walker and that is Hubble, which is the best thing in the world.
It was a surprise cross.
I was like, why don't we take like two completely universally opposite plants and smash them together?
And that's, you know, that's what we got.
So we decided to name it Hubble after like the Hubble Space Telescope.
Wanted to start naming some things after some historical figures.
Yeah, I was going to say that doesn't fall into the PAM framework.
It doesn't, it doesn't, right?
I wanted to do some sort of, I'm into astrophysics, you know, physics and space and different types of things like that.
And Hubble, the Hubble Space Telescope told us, you know, up until recently when they started launching Kepler and all the new telescopes.
But it told us almost everything we knew about the universe.
It's like my daughters and Barbies.
You have astrophysicist Pam.
That's it.
That's it.
I'm a weirdo.
I try to listen to all kinds of like soil science and astrophysics and weird, boring shit.
My wife just cannot stand, you know, but it can be high in CBD.
It is, there's phenotype number two, which is usually a CBD, the heavy cultivars.
It's usually a one to one or two to one strain.
So it's like two parts CBD, one part THC or one, you know, equal parts.
It is, it falls right, you'll know it too right off the bat because it has those papaya and grandma's purse terpenes to it.
It doesn't have, it doesn't have that funky gas and that funky, uh, uh, Kush type smell to it.
It's right off the bat.
You'll have that, that, that tropical, you know, that tropical, you know, grandma's purse, you know, it will be coming out in there and you'll be like, oh, okay.
And you'll see too, cause the resin is different.
And the plant is a beautiful plant.
It's got killer pine cone nugs.
Definitely has some CBD, but they're less common.
Mom and dog walkers, a 30% plus gas machine.
And, um, she pretty much dominates the cross, uh, for the most part.
Um, so, which is great.
Um, but you get, you get added color, uh, stud purple stud, Flamingo brings color over and you get a lot more purples.
You get some pink hairs like you saw there outdoors, indoors.
I never seen any pink hairs on Hubble.
Uh, but outdoors it's, it expresses pink hairs really easily.
Um, it's pretty cool like that.
And that's got, you know, it's coming from Flamingo side.
Um, but it's one of my favorite plants just to smoke smooth.
It's very similar to dog walker.
You got a little bit, it's not as heavy duty cause you got a little bit of the CBD, but it lasts longer and it's like, it's early by the end of September.
It's down, you know, you're, you're down and out.
People want to see you dance.
Well, we'll see, you know, we'll get some, we get, take that shirt off.
No, please don't.
Please don't.
We'll see you.
We'll start dancing.
So we have, uh, and I, I assume people don't want me to say in their last names, but Casey picked up a pack of the Pam F2s.
Um, yeah, people are jumping straight to the Pam F2s.
Uh, Chris, what did Chris pick up?
Chris also picked up the Pam F2s.
Yeah.
So out of those Pam F2s, I got my, I got one of those.
I got my, a keeper that I keep still to this day, Pam 15.
Um, I grew a lot more plants than just 15, but she was number 15 and she was something different.
You can see her on, on, on my Instagram.
Um, I, she's like the closest thing to like her land race, land race roots is, is she can be a tank man.
Um, very, you know, very, very interesting plant.
Not, not your craziest producer, but super fucking cool.
Super unique, um, extra resinous, got the color and just funky bud structure, just old school.
Um, it reminds me of a haze, uh, in, in look and in like just bud quality and just, just kind of how it makes you feel.
Um, and it's, it is kind of funky dog that came out of the F2s.
Um, a couple of friends of mine, you know, pulled out some other stuff in those Pam F2s.
So, you know, there's, there's, there's good shit in there.
And, and that second generation, any F2, you know, that's up here, you know, you have, um, you know, a couple of different F2s that are up there.
That's an open population.
So that's pretty much, you're going to get a good amount of variability in there from all the, all the family members on both sides.
That you can kind of select some pretty cool plants out of those.
Um, which is nice.
It's not driven one way or the other.
It's kind of opened up.
So you get a little bit more, uh, you know, more look at the, at the gene pool that way.
If you, if you, if you do it, do it right.
Um, so, um, but yeah, that's, that's those, but the Hubble is a slept on strain.
It's one of those strains.
It just, every single person that grows it calls me and tells me, dude, I'm keeping this plant.
I found a plant that I'm going to keep.
And thank you.
I'm stoked that I'm growing Hubble.
I'm going to definitely grow it again.
And they try to give it to people.
And I hope to God that it makes it around, uh, back around here again, because, uh, it's a, you know, you find one of those phenotype ones, or even one of those high CBD ones that really, you know, pleasurable.
But that phenotype one, you find one of those, it's, it's a nice one.
If you ever held a, you know, an extra special sparkly nug, man, it's, it's one of those, you know, it's something you don't want to lose, you know?
So, but it always, it always surprises people and it always kind of scares people because of the CBD.
It's, it's like, right with CBD, it's weird, you know, but that's kind of what I think the future of cannabis is going to be.
It's going to be a little bit more of an open cannabinoid basket with, you know, a little bit more experience, a little more balance, you know, not all driven towards a hundred percent THC numbers and everything gets kind of chucked out of the truck to stuff it full of THC.
We're, you know, we're, we're having a little bit more of a, a Cadillac ride, you know?
So.
So if you were dancing for the Hubble, uh, up next is the hula dancer.
Whoo.
Whoo.
Hula dancer.
This is like your steel.
This is, this is something for, uh, like breeders and stuff that, uh, or somebody who's trying to, to look at something that's kind of land race.
It's going to be, you know, going to be worth smoking because, uh, hula dancer is a K1 Kalitaizang, uh, reunion Island land race, uh, plant, basically.
Um, it's not technically land race cause it's not like wild and it's, it was cultivated with human hands, but it's, it's very close to pure.
Um, from the reunion Island way off off the coast of Morocco or some shit out there.
Uh, beautiful equatorial environments, palm trees, waterfalls, just, you know, hula dancers, the whole, the whole bit, what you think of, if you think of a beautiful Island life, right.
And like the, the K1 strains are known to have like low hermaphroditic characteristics, especially this, this Kalitaizang one, uh, like very, very extreme low hermaphrodism.
And also some of those strains have been known to like say year, year, year round fruiting or capable to have multi harvests.
Um, I don't know that, you know, that's true.
I've never seen anything like that.
Um, but I was interested in, you know, seeing something like that or, you know, maybe learning a little bit more.
So I, I, I dug up a whole bunch of those seeds, got lucky, um, went through some selected, uh, a good female that was kind of make you get out.
And, you know, like Kevin Jodri always said, you know, with that Congo or wherever you get out and you want to run, run next to the car.
It's one of those, it'll get you, it'll get you moving and it'll make you look out the window.
Like the cops are coming.
It's definitely racy.
Uh, that one is the, the mother.
Um, and then, but it was, it was kinda, it was, it was very pleasurable.
It was very, you know, psychedelic kind of in a way it was very, you know, time lossy.
It was very, it was kind of a cool plant, you know, it's not something I would smoke every day, but it was a, it was a pure equatorial sativa.
And the other thing is it took 18 to 20 weeks and I still could have probably kept it out there.
You know, um, that one right there is the offspring that I bred it after I made a breeding change to it.
Um, I took that plant and I bred it with my Mr. Frosty, uh, citrus farmer, resin male.
So I took a squatty Indica resin male that had visible resin on it.
It's just tacky stems, big old, uh, yeah, cool.
Yeah, yeah, heck yeah bro.
Uh, big old colas like a corn cob, fricking flowers, just, just a stack frigging pop up, uh, very squatty Indica, the smaller tight leaves, um, very purple, very awesome.
Very cough syrup and just, just an awesome plant.
Um, I called him Mr. Frosty.
He came out of a big, big bunch of plants and there was no doubt we were going to do something with him.
Um, I took that power, hit that K1 land race to hopefully friggin shorten that son of a bitch flower, flower cycle and structure cycle and add some modern resin qualities into it.
The citrus farmer consists of, uh, it's a Tahoe OG, it's a granddaddy purple and it's, uh, the breath.
It's the, um, OGKB.
So it's got all those modern, you know, sluggers in there.
Um, and it also has the tangerine skunk, uh, which is an old clone there.
So it's got, it's got all that capability kind of bottled up in that male.
And I put it onto that, that, uh, that land race and, you know, out came that plant, you know, and a bunch of others are just like that really branchy, really corn cob friggin nugs.
Um, pretty darn tough, but flower time didn't come down that much.
Uh, you came down from like 18 to 20 weeks.
You came down to somewhere between, you can, you can get down to 12, maybe, you know, 12 weeks, you know, 12, 14 in that realm.
Um, definitely strong sativa traits.
You've got a lot of woodiness, a lot of, a lot of cinnamons, a lot of spices.
It did add some resin and some modern bud structure qualities.
It definitely like dense stuff.
The buds made them a little bit more modern, but this is something that you're going to go through and, uh, kind of look at something and select something really unique and then be able to work the line.
It's going to be a little gamey.
It's going to be close to that land race, which isn't close to what people want modern times, but it's going to have different properties.
And the, and the offspring that comes out of there is going to be really cool and kind of just different.
You're not going to, you know, it's, it's from the old school.
Um, and just having that modern genetic kind of plugged in there, just kind of just made it a little bit more desirable.
So we can kind of, hopefully she'll get grown a little bit more and maybe somebody will pull something out of there and be like, man, this is a killer hula dancer, Fino.
And then they'll decide to work the line.
You can actually craft a whole new plant, you know, from something like that, you know, so it's good work.
Um, but it's not something you're going to grow and be like, Hey, this, you know, this is like land race garbage.
You know, it's like, you got to have that expectation that it's, you know, you're going to want to work, work with this.
You're going to look at the beauty on the inside.
She's going to be, she's going to have a lot of these killer characteristics that you're going to have to pull out.
And it's going to be a passion project, you know, so they're, they're cheap, they're affordable seeds.
They should, cause they, they need to get grown, you know?
Um, but it's something that's cool.
It's a, it's a builder plant.
So it's good stock to build on.
It's got, you know, momentous potential for sure.
I just wish it went down to like nine weeks, you know, it's going to take some work.
You have any questions on that or anything?
Anybody got any questions on it?
It's nice to see you.
It's nice to see you man.
Thanks for grouping.
Any questions about the other stuff that I missed?
Yeah, no worries man.
I always wonder, like I always get a pack of seeds, you know, and be like, man, what the hell really are these?
You know what, you know, like it says like this on the pack, but like, what, what the fuck are these?
Where'd they come from?
What, what, what is he thinking?
I always, you know, I love, I love seeking out that, you know, I always Google like, you know, fucking trying to get information on that.
And I always find info like this, you know, so guys got questions, fire them away, man.
I love talking about this.
So I realized my mic was muted, but a bunch of people have picked up the hula dancer.
Great, great, great.
Antoine, Kevin, David, I'm sure other people.
Yeah, if you guys need like, you've got questions or you need stuff, just yell.
Just going back.
Well, so that's what I was going to say, just recapping what we've gone through.
So we've gone through the dog beach.
We've gone through the flamingo ringo F2, which is, we've gone through the Hubble, the hula dancer.
So any questions?
Yeah.
What was that?
I missed it.
I love when I don't have to talk.
I'm just looking to see if there are any questions so far.
Yeah, just just and I realized that as after I was babbling away for a while.
All right.
Well, next.
And just for people who are coming in and are asking if this is an auction, it is not an auction.
You can go to that website at the on the ticker at the bottom of the screen and buy what Tyler is so eloquently describing.
And up next, he will make your panties wet with his description.
All right.
Lady Breath F2.
All right.
All right.
All right.
So Lady Breath, first year.
Interesting, interesting plant.
Sorry, just quickly.
What?
Someone someone asked what elevation was the Hubble bred at?
I'm right.
You're basically almost at sea level.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I'm right at sea level in SoCal.
And then Steve said, are these made with at least one?
Do you see that one?
Yeah, these are.
Yes.
The the the hula dancer is an IVL line.
Yes.
The not the hula dancer itself, but the K1, the mother of that is an IVL K1 land race from the Reunion Island in Breadline for generations.
And then it was bred to the citrus farmer resin stud.
And now that's, you know, it's almost a true one to one.
So that was an F3.
And, you know, that is a generational plant.
So you're going to get, you know, you're going to get some good balance there.
But since it's an IVL like K1 land race, true equatorial sativa, strong genetic, it dominates the cross.
So you're going to have to pick and choose what you like about it and weave it out.
So Lady Breath.
F2 is a cross of orchard.
It's actually a Mendo Breath clone and an orchard lady male.
And then out of that population.
So basically I made orchard lady, the F1s, gave them to my good buddy.
He ran a bunch of orchard ladies, pulled out a couple of males that he liked.
He had a Mendo Breath clone, verified Mendo Breath clone.
He made that first initial cross with my orchard lady male and use his Mendo Breath clone and made that first initial cross.
Gave me the seeds back.
And the season early on, maybe late last year.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Early, really early this year or the end of last year.
I got the seeds back and I planted those bad boys and went to town looking at some stuff.
And I pulled out two males and I pulled out two females out of that group.
And I decided, hey, I'm just going to see what happens.
Because the orchard lady, the daddy of orchard lady, is that citrus farmer resin male that I was talking about before.
And that has the OGKB, the OG Kush Breath, which is where the breath came from in that line.
And the Mendo Breath, it gets crazy with all the names, and the Mendo Breath clone that was used also has that OGKB in it.
That's what made that Mendo Breath was that OGKB cross.
So it's got two parts of that OGKB in that line already with the Pam.
Because the orchard lady is Pam and citrus farmer resin stud.
And then the Mendo Breath is, you know, it's an OGKB cross.
I don't know what the other one is.
And this is the orchard lady, right?
Yep. That's the orchard lady right there.
So a male of that line was taken and used on the Mendo Breath clone.
And Mendo Breath is an awesome strain. I love it.
It's one of those ones that if I did go to the dispensary, I could count on buying and, you know, and get me by it for a little while.
If they didn't have any gas, it would work.
It's a decent solid strain that I enjoyed.
You know, my wife loves it, so I kept it around.
That's one of the reasons why I opened up the seeds that he gave me back.
So I'm like, oh, you know, my wife loves the Mendo Breath, so we'll see what we can pull up, you know?
So I pulled out two males, two females, bred them together.
Wanted to just make a fuckload of seeds so I could look through them, give them out, figure out, you know, what was going on.
But I wanted to keep a little bit of diversity, so I used two males and two females.
And that's what those seeds are.
Those are the next generation of two males, two females of the Orchard Lady Mendo Breath cross.
And that is your Lady Breath.
And out of those plants, rock hard, very modern nugg structure.
You definitely get a squattier, branchier profile, like Orchard Lady and more like an Indica.
It's got that really firm stems on there to where if you're going to do any weaving or bending or training, you may probably want to do it earlier than later.
Because she really hardens up in form, which is good because you don't need a lot of cages and stuff outdoors and stuff like that.
It's a good solid frame.
Colors, just like the Orchard Lady colors, are always coming through.
The pinks, the purples.
But you got more of that cookie, more of that OGKB, that you get some citrus in there because all these little things will pop through.
You get ones with a little bit more gas from the Tahoe that's kind of buried in there.
But you get the colors consistently because there's Grandaddy and Pam and all those colorful anthocyanin plants in there.
It's a cool one.
It's just one of those modern ones that are just going to be like, hey, you're going to pull some good stock out of it.
But there's a ton of variability in there.
And it's an F2, again, so the population's opened up.
So you're going to look at things that are going to be really close to Mendobreath, things that will be really close to Pam, things that fall in the middle.
A lot of variability.
But yeah, they're really, really a resonance.
That's some outdoor stuff.
You break that open, it's sparkly.
But it's dense.
It's like PGR dense.
All the ones that I saw are really dense, man.
It's awesome for travel or packing a bunch of bags and having them sit around a while.
They're durable.
Probably not awesome for washing and stuff because they're so dense.
You've got to really break them open like the Mac or something.
But it's a cool plant.
It's a great one.
But you've got the variability and you've got a classic dispensary Mendobreath type with the Orchard Lady, which is a little classy, something a little different.
So rock and roll, man.
Survivor.
Hell yeah.
Hell yeah.
So that's a cool one.
I never sold that to anyone ever.
We're just they're sitting.
Like I said, I got cool stuff.
So we might as well just start opening up the vault and getting some stuff that I know will be cool out there.
Lots of people enjoy that.
So we're not going to talk about this yet, but since I'll probably forget.
At some point, we're going to talk about what he's working on right now that will be available imminently.
So if everybody can remember to talk about that in about 10 or 15 minutes.
Yeah, we will.
We'll talk about some stuff that I got that's got some triangle cush and some stuff that's coming up.
Yeah, for sure.
We will.
Hang out, man.
We'll do that.
Okay.
So how about some Orchard Lady F1?
So the Orchard Lady is a staple.
I get a message every couple days or every other day from somebody who's growing Orchard Lady.
Very pleased with it.
That picture you just pulled up and threw up there, that was just the other day.
Somebody growing Orchard Lady.
And they all look just like that.
It's like, yep, that's Orchard Lady.
No doubt about it.
It's got color.
It's got those pink under the veins of the leaves.
They're really pinks and purples a lot.
Got those very great kind of funky tones in there, which is just delightful.
It's an early strain, too.
It's not really late.
Most of them aren't really late.
They can get good size.
I think the biggest Orchard Lady that I've had yet is 12.
Somewhere 11 or 12 foot, just from seed.
That generation, F1 generation that we're talking about right now, just came right from that initial cross.
That is a cross of PAM1, my baby, and that Citrus Farmer Resin Stud, that resiny guy that we've been talking about the last couple crosses.
That was one of the first things he hit was PAM, and there it is.
Boom.
You can see PAM definitively in that cross, but you can also see a change in the resin.
Some of those Orchard Lady in that F1, cool, the high, I'll talk about that.
Some of the Orchard Lady plants had a characteristic where they had leaf buds.
On the fan leaves, in the middle of the fan leaf, you'd have a little bud or a little snapper or a couple of resin glands or a couple of calyxes grow right out of the middle of the little bud right there, which is pretty cool.
I wanted to try to further that characteristic in the line.
Did some back crossing and stuff, and I lost it.
I don't know where it went, so we're going back to the F1s to find it again and see if we can find it and make it a thing.
That's a cool trait that's in that F1.
The high is very mellow.
If I had to compare it to a string, to the way that it makes me feel, Blue Dream.
Say what you want.
You love it or you hate it, it's one of those things, but the way that it makes you feel is that it's good.
It's a good feeling.
There's no paranoia.
There's not a lot of raciness to it.
It's just kind of...
It's just kind of...
It's just pleasurable.
It's cool and clean.
It reminds me of old Purple Mountain Bud, Moraine County in the early 2000s.
We'd run around town, like Mount Tam and stuff, San Rafael area up there.
It was purple, man.
It was this purple, outdoor, musty mountain grape bud.
No matter where you turn, it was this musty mountain purple grape bud.
It was just super prevalent.
It reminds me of the way that makes me feel.
It was nice.
It was really clean and enjoyable and uplifting.
It's also usually an outdoor string that I'm growing.
I usually grow that one outside.
It'll stretch out really well.
It's a good, clean, fun, easy string.
It doesn't get a lot of problems.
Like I said, it'll get 10 or 12 foot if you really want a tree.
You can see Mac Daddy trunks on that bad boy.
Three, four shovels around, no question.
That's small.
That was early on, too.
It probably doubled in size after that.
They are good growers, man.
But they're not tall.
They're really cool and branchy and stout and stacked and just firm.
I don't have very many of those left.
That generation's gone.
Daddy's gone.
He was lost also to the root aphid, the great root aphid struggle back in the day.
I lost him and Flamingo to that.
I can't remake them.
I lost that leaf bud plant during the BX because I thought,
I back-crossed it and it'll be in there.
I'll be able to find it pretty quickly, pretty easily.
I never found it again out of a bunch of stuff.
It's probably in there.
The choice I made was wrong.
I got to go back and find it again.
But those F1s, that's the last of them.
I don't know how many you guys have there, but there's not very many there.
I could answer that.
Give me one second.
That was the
Orchard Lady, the F1.
Orchard Lady F1.
That's another one.
That one and Hubble are like
They surprise people.
We got six packs left.
That's about right.
Now, the lady everybody's been waiting for.
Yes.
How many do we got of those?
People were buying them early.
There was like 10 or something like that.
I only had a couple, so I didn't know how many we had left.
That is like
We have seven left.
Hey, Peter, make that six because I forgot to take the items off my site.
One just sold on my site.
I have it off my site now.
We got six left.
We got six.
Let me update that.
All right, carry on.
Yes, so I was pulling my teeth trying to figure out,
hey, should I release this one?
Should I let this one go?
It's just like the first real PAM release there is.
It's pure PAM.
It's the original seed stock that I pulled PAM out of.
Got a male out of.
We made babies.
They just sat there.
They sat there a long time.
I looked at them.
They were awesome.
I pulled the PAM 15 out of there.
I saw a lot of my family members just really liking them.
They're just different fun stuff.
To make sure she lived on, I was like, all right, I'm going to put out as many as I can.
I put out 75 packs.
I called up Josh and we made it happen.
They all got their own little number on them, 1-75 or whatever.
There's 13, 14 seeds.
I always put an extra seed or two in there usually in the packs.
We put them up.
There's only 75 that went out into the world.
We're down to what, six now.
It's more of that breeder stock again, kind of like that hula dancer stuff.
She's close to land race.
She's a unique broad.
You're going to pull something out there that's really unique and kind of unusual.
It's going to be a sativa plant.
It's going to be tall and stretchy.
It's going to have cool old school characteristics and old school effects and feelings.
You're going to have some selection in there.
They're all going to look pretty close.
You're going to have a lot.
You're going to see that they are definitely siblings.
Like I said, she breeds pretty true.
You can pick things out that look very similar to Pam sometimes.
My camera's glitching.
Am I glitching?
Can you hear me okay?
Yep.
Okay, good.
It's an F2 generation.
It's an open population again.
You're going to be able to look at the family, look at the history.
You're going to get a good scope at what's in there.
A lot of good plants have come out.
If you get a pack of Pam F2, breed it, play with it, share it, grow it.
Get her out there into the world because I don't know exactly what the hell she is.
They couldn't give me a definitive answer with the science that was available to me at the time.
I don't know if it's important or not important, but I know that it's a frigging awesome plant.
She'll make you feel really good.
It's a pleasure to grow.
It's one of those things, like Mary Clones, like a dream.
She's got color.
She's got flavor.
She's got some swag.
She's got some look.
She's got a lot.
Like I said, the one thing I hate about her is that she didn't have any gas.
Not everybody likes gas, so it's a perfect plant for her.
Nine out of ten people, for the most part, if you're not a gas person.
If you are, you can put the gas in.
It's doable, but that's been my project.
But breed it, share it, have fun with it.
It ain't cheap.
It's like the expensive one that I got.
That is my flagship.
That's my stuff.
It's not the most heavy-duty, crazy weed you've ever seen or smoked in your whole life.
It's something that's different.
It kind of lays outside the map.
It puts on the weight and the shine, the glitz.
She's got an aura and a love about her.
There's plants where you're like, man, for some reason I'm just drawn to this plant.
It just wants to be here with me.
It wants to hang out.
It's a great plant for that.
It's one of those things.
Timing on PAM.
Flower-wise, the pure PAMs, most of them are nine to twelve, nine to eleven weeks.
You can pull.
One of the characteristics I like of PAM, PAM 1, even PAM 15, but more so PAM 1, is you can pull her early and you can pull her a little bit later.
She has a little bit of swing in windows where her pistils will flare up and then she'll die down and look done.
And then if you don't pick her, she'll flash back up and do it all over again.
You can pick your window, fruitier.
The longer you push it, it's a little more musty.
But truth be told, if you want to run her until her flower is done, you're at eleven or twelve weeks.
And that's outside, just normal conditions at all.
You can probably speed that up a little bit.
Like I said, you can pull it early.
I have.
I pulled PAM down at like 46, 47 days and had it in a jar and still enjoyed smoking it.
I wouldn't have showed it off or entered it in a competition or anything, but I enjoyed smoking.
It has the flavor.
It still has some kick and some give to it.
But you definitely want to let her go until she's eleven or twelve weeks.
Again, it's like one of those higher elevation, closer, maybe only one or two crosses was made to it.
I'll talk about that in PAMdemic.
And she's like I said, she's good breeder stock.
You're looking to breed with stuff.
I'm not one of those guys that's going to be like, hey, don't breed with my shit.
I mean, don't be a dick and try to keep it.
Be a good guy and breed with the shit.
That's all good.
But keep it alive.
That's what I got to say.
Speaking of breeding with the PAM.
You just busted a whole PAM nut, didn't you?
Yeah, I put her in a TK, NL5, Hayes, Rural Wedding, Rural Kush, Mack.
But I'm mostly looking forward to the PAM onto the Hollywood Pure Kush.
The PAM is the most exciting line for me right now, just because it's not genetically connected to anything.
So I can really work with that in different lines.
So I've got a grip of seed.
I'm about to send Tyler in about another 10 days.
So there should be some fun crosses in there.
Tyler, you are muted.
No, I got you.
I figured out how to work this one.
This is a new little screen situation here.
It's awesome.
Good to see you, Nick, man.
Good to see you, too, buddy.
Hell yeah, brother.
I also pulled about three PAM males that I'm re-vegging and going to be dumping here probably in the next four weeks.
Nice.
Nice.
Good.
And just quickly, Tyler, Eric, Russell just pulled the trigger in the past couple minutes.
If you guys need, like, you got questions or you see something funny, just yell at me, man.
Send me a message or something.
I'll help out.
Slide into that DM right there.
Or even better.
Hold on a second.
Or even better.
I'm giving you my graphics work.
I need to pick up the speed.
But you can also slide into that DM.
Either one works.
Either one works.
That's hilarious.
So up next.
So I guess we're getting back away from the space exploration and we're getting back into the PAM Anderson.
I got a couple of things.
I got Kepler and a couple of things that I'm working on that are coming down the pipe.
So you won't get away from space all the way.
But that's Force Bra right there.
I mean, that's Munson.
Anybody know Roy Munson?
You know, Kingpin.
Friggin' awesome movie.
Even though you don't want to be a Munson or you don't want to get Munson.
But there's no class to Munson.
There's no space to Munson.
So Munson is a Duke Diamond line.
And wow, right when it came out, I got some Munson beans.
And I was like, let's see what Munson's about.
Munson is a Dominion Skunk.
It's a Dominion Skunk, Northern Lights 5.
And I think there's Chem 91 in there too.
I could be wrong.
I think Nick's grown Munson.
He might know that I'm right or wrong.
But I'm pretty sure it's those three genetics for sure.
I actually just put the PAM F2 on the Munson.
It's in the room also.
There you go.
A little recombination.
Yeah, I love that Munson.
It's in my top five for this year.
It's just so garlicky.
I'd love to see it get put on GMO.
Yeah.
It's just very garlicky.
It's very Indica, couch lock type plant.
And when I turn it into RSO, I sleep better on that strain.
That and Bubble Kush and the Hollywood Pure Kush.
Better than any other strains when I break them down into RSO.
So yeah, I'm a big fan of the Munson.
When I watched it, I...
The NL5, Garlic Cut 2, I think...
It was the Dominion Skunk.
I know Dominion Skunk.
It was the Garlic Cut.
And then I think, I don't know, I think I read somewhere there was Chem in there too.
But I didn't, you know, I could be wrong.
I know it's the NL5, that Garlic Cut, and Dominion Skunk for sure.
Those are the two main players in that one.
But yeah, it's just like you said, it's really garlicky, really sharp, really powerful shit, man.
I pulled out with that breeding project that I did with this one.
Munson, what I found was there was two main phenotypes in the line.
There was a more tall and stretchy, just garlicky killer thing that I called Munson number...
Munson 7 was one of the ones that I selected out of there.
It was Munson 7.
And it was tall and it was stretchy and it had PAM growth characteristics in a lot of ways.
But it was just nasty.
I mean, body odor and just nastiness.
Just donkey thunder, you know, stuff.
I mean, it was a mean, ugly plant, right?
It fit the bill for Munson, that's for sure.
And I also pulled out the other type of pheno, which is a short, squatty Northern Lights.
I'm a dominant pheno.
And those are like those little nasty things, like really short and tight, like super frigging leafy, like traditional.
Indica is just really old school, like that nasty, short, squattyness with that turf that's just kind of rancid and rough.
So I pulled out Munson 7 and one of them squatties, call it a squatty.
And I took my PAM original seed stock male and I hit both of those.
And that's the sports bra.
That brought out sports bra.
And I've been giving sports bra out as freebies here or there, as testers to people here or there.
And I let a bunch of people down here grow those this season.
I grew those, you know, and they carried on that big old, you know, huge nugs, huge stacking frigging traits.
You got some nastiness in there.
But PAM put some fruit in there.
So now you got a little sweetness, you know, to choose from in there as well, which is kind of, you know, kind of cool.
The one that I really like, you know, this season that I grew, it was grown by a friend of mine down the road.
Anybody who has their little six plant plot, their little fruit tree is we take care of and stuff.
I made sure they had Munson this year to test.
I wanted to do a big test on Munson and I wanted to do a big test on a Lady Breath and a couple other things.
So I found a good one not too far from here.
And it was it was an excellent blend of the two plants.
And it looked it looked a lot like, you know, that Munson 7 looked tall and huge like PAM and Munson 7.
It was the perfect union there.
And it did have some of that that garlic with the B.O.
But the one thing I really love about that Munson Mom, the big funky one that I pulled.
It was a dumper in the in the wash.
Like when we washed it with the bags, like it, it, it yielded more than everything.
I don't have a percentage. I didn't do any weights on it or anything.
But like you're like you're washing freaking Munson, you're washing Munson 7.
And then you go watch something else.
You're like, damn, we ain't watch more than Munson 7, you know, because it was a it just put shit in the bag, you know.
So that was a cool thing.
I was hoping it was going to transfer over and we'll find out that later on this year.
But the plants were good.
They had a lot of good blend.
They're good plants.
You know, much love to Duke.
He's good dude.
I talked to him through the whole thing, you know, a couple times, you know, told him what I was doing.
I even told him I was going to name it what I was going to name it years ago.
And he's cool.
So, yeah, man, it's a cool thing.
And people grow it and they like it.
We can keep we can keep some of that stuff going.
But that's one of those.
That's one of them shorties that it's like a short Pam and it kept that.
That's right.
It has this image of this.
I just have this image of this stacked sports bra, just like sweaty and gnarly and great.
Yeah.
I'm just like, oh, gross.
Boston.
I'm sure because it was the Pam, right?
No.
If you know Kingpin or Munson or any of that stuff, you know what I mean?
It's like, you know, that's it's got to be a sweaty, busted sports bra.
You know, it's just got to be.
So.
That's a that's it.
That's the big one.
That's, you know, that one hasn't been out of the banks.
I just didn't.
That was the big tester that we were doing this year out there.
So what's there is there.
You know, it's a cool one.
It's something that's neat.
Do you grow up Duke stuff?
You know what's up.
So up next, we have the wicked witch F1.
All right.
OK, so this is an old one.
Shoot.
I don't know when this was, but back back, this is an old sub sub cool strain.
This is a little this little tribute right here for old sub.
If that's it back when I was back when Cherrygasm, I don't know when that came out.
It was, you know, a while ago, but Cherrygasm came out and had that cherry pie.
And I was having I was having trouble finding that cherry pie.
I really wanted I really wanted that cherry pie, the real cherry pie that, you know, I had it in flower form, but I couldn't get the get the cut.
I couldn't get the stuff that Cherrygasm came out.
And it was that Cherrygasm and the space dude or whatever.
I'm like, shit, that was that cherry pie and that space dude.
I'm like, that's there's my cherry pie.
I'm going to grab that one. Right.
So I ended up getting a couple of packs of that.
I got those from overseas, actually.
I mean, that's that's how long ago it was.
I was fucking wow.
And I got those and I went through a bunch of them and I found one that smelled just like cherry cheesecake.
Had killer trikes on it.
It's even it's even, you know, it's even better.
I grew it a few times and I even grew it again, you know, a couple of clones of it.
And then very early on in my Instagram, maybe in 2018 or something, maybe one of the beginning.
Right when I got on there, I put up a couple of pictures of it, maybe.
But yeah, it's really killer cherry pie.
It was like cherry cheesecake.
Very awesome. Very smooth.
Very when it faded out, it just it just blotted in color.
It was just gorgeous, freaking faded out.
Just beauty.
Total modern nug structure.
Total licks Mac and friggin, you know, cherry pie flavor that everybody locks onto and loves.
And then during that time, I was doing my big CBD hunts.
And that's when I was having like, you know, I had the Ringo's and I was doing the Harley Sue's and God and all these different CBD's and hemp lines and the stuff I was running through.
And I had some 3D CBD, which is a three districts CBD.
Basically, it's named for the three districts that all the pieces came from.
It was Skunk, Afghan and Hades.
So they took these three different genetic profiles and out of that profile, they created a CBD dominant or two to one plant that they called 3D CBD.
And I was running a bunch of those seeds and I pulled out a killer male with those corn cob friggin flower structure.
He was the slowest friggin veggie plant ever.
And he was the last one to show any sex out of all the plants.
And I actually thought it was a female because it was so fucking pretty.
It smelled beautiful on a stem rub and veg.
It had this perfect feminine tight friggin internal spacing.
It was a female. Thing was a fucking female.
And it still hadn't shown sex when I ended up planting it out in the orchard in the ground.
And it turned out it was a fucking male.
And it was a beautiful male at that.
It had these killer plants.
Him and Mr. Frosty, those are the two most dumping plants I've ever had.
You couldn't put out more pollen than anything.
You could fill jars and shit, like small jars with the amount of pollen that was coming out of this stuff.
It was crazy compared to normal dumpers.
And I decided, shit man, he earned his right.
He tricked me all the way across the board.
He put on masks.
He showed me exactly what it was going to do in a natural setting in the ground.
His true nature, which is a cool, rare thing to see for a male.
Not everybody is planting those in the ground and letting them get to full term.
Full term size, 6-8 feet.
And he was a great one.
Smelled in veg, great flower structure, great stacking.
He tricked me, thought it was a friggin lady.
He had a late flower trigger.
But that cherry chasm had a really early finish.
It finishes right there in the middle.
It doesn't have any huge effect or anything, unlike the time of flower.
But it's a delectable plant.
It kept those strong cherry turps.
It's got these cakey, creamy ice cream.
It's got these different types of sweetness.
Turps, there's no gas in there.
But it's lip-smackingly good.
It's a joint-weber's dream.
And that male I had tested.
Tested some of his leaves and some of his flower stalks and stuff like that.
And he was a 2-1 male as well.
So he was CBD dominant, 2-1 ratio, CBD to THC.
And had all the cool male characteristics you would look for.
And that crossed onto the cherry chasm.
Cherry chasm.
And boom, that was Wicked Witch.
And on one of the seeds, when I was sorting the seeds,
I looked at the seed and I was looking at them and I was playing with the seeds.
I keep the seeds in the nugs for a long time.
Sometimes I don't get to them.
Sometimes they just sit in the bins.
And they're safer there than getting fucked with in a lot of cases.
So when I get to sorting stuff, sometimes I'm looking at stuff.
But when I was looking at those seeds,
I pulled out a seed and on the side of it you saw a little picture.
It looked like a little witch riding a broomstick to me.
It looked just like a little witch riding a broomstick.
You see the tiger stripes, but it had this little blob.
And it looked like a little witch riding a broomstick.
And I'm like, I'm calling it Wicked Witch, dude.
And then it just sat in the chest forever.
And I gave it away to my good close friends.
Anybody who needed a good medical strain or something cool that wanted it.
That was just one of the ones that I just give you.
There's only just one or two packs here and there.
And they're sitting there.
So I decided we'd just put them up there.
So that's what we're going to do.
But it's a killer little thing.
It's not something I'm ever going to work again.
I don't have any of the parents.
It was just a part of my old CBD projects back in the day
when I was looking through the CBD stuff.
And just trying to combine flavor with medicine and figuring out what they did.
If they were worth anything.
If it was something I should do.
So that's it.
All right.
I think we've gone through the current lineup.
And the pot guy.
I'm like, do you need a sip of water?
So why don't you.
The bacon grease.
There's been chatter about the bacon grease in the chat.
So why don't you.
With any starting point you want.
Talk about what's coming up.
All right.
So the last little while.
I'm going to go ahead and get started.
I'm going to go ahead and get started.
I'm going to go ahead and get started.
I'm going to go ahead and get started.
Last little while.
And by the way, just quickly.
Can the three of you hold your own while I go through the steak on the grill?
Oh, dude, I want a steak.
We got to do.
I'll be back.
Tyler, keep on keeping on.
You got to filibuster for at least 10 minutes because I got to P2 and put the steak on the grill and I'll be back.
We can do it.
I got you.
I'll take a deep breath.
Here we go.
So stuff coming up.
I've been working on.
Something called the pandemic.
I've been working on something called the baking grease and working on all kinds of other stuff.
I got all kinds of stuff coming up of the pike.
I got, you know.
Ten things that I'm extremely excited about that are going to blow the friggin doors off.
You know, as soon as I can verify.
They'll do what I know that they're going to do.
So they got to go through the process and that takes some time.
And I, you know, I could probably sell for, you know, 100 bacon greases today, but I want to make sure that everything, everything is perfect.
I want to make sure that we got a perfect.
Everything is taken care of.
And when you get them, you're going to get what I get, you know.
So the bacon grease, first generation, complete success.
Super stoked.
I did.
This was the first project that I didn't breed the selected male.
The Pam one first, I bred it to Pam 15 first.
I also felt guilty in the middle of the night.
I was laying in my bed.
I got it.
I got hit.
Pam.
So I ended up like the next day or something.
I ended up like using the last little bit of pollen and putting it on Pam one.
And I got just got a couple of seeds just so that I, you know, I didn't break my streak of what I do.
So that is bacon grease is going to be broken up into two things, but real bacon grease is just going to be bacon grease.
And that is Pam 15 cross to a do-si-do resin male.
So dad, do-si-do came from, you know, came from archive.
It's the F2 generation of the 18.
So he has a couple of different do-si-dos he has 18 and 20 something.
And, you know, another one that he, that he keeps, but the 18 is the OG Kush dominant do-si-do phenotype.
And that's the one that I always like.
I always like that cushier do-si-do.
And I went to the dispensaries or when somebody showed me the do-si-do, it's, it's less floral and it's more like cushy.
And you got that, that Kush lip smack and that nastiness to it.
It's delightful.
And I had some stuff called Santa's cookies back in the day.
And I was always like, damn, that shit tastes amazing.
You know what I mean?
I'm like, I want, you know, and it was basically that do-si-do Kush phenotype.
And it was just, you know, somebody called it Santa cookies or whatever.
But basically I found, I got it.
I got a pack of those do-si-do 18 F2s.
I went through them.
I found a cool resin male, super, you know, I wanted a female.
I wanted a couple of females that I could work with, but I ended up finding a good male in there.
And I was like, okay, I'll throw all this other shit away.
And I'm going to, I'm going to work on this male because he ended up dripping early.
And he had that same stem characteristic that the, that the citrus farmer resin male had early on in veg.
And when you touch the stem and you rub the stem, it's like you're rubbing like sharp hairs that are really sticky and matty.
And then it's like extra tacky, you know, and when you, it's almost like you're grabbing a bud.
But it's just this extra tackiness that comes along with it.
And every stem is kind of sticky or tacky in a weird way.
But it's this, it's like, it's got a little bit of, a little bit of fucking like half hard super glue on it.
And you kind of like stick it and it kind of sticks to you a little extra when you're rubbing it down.
And this, this particular plant had that early on and also had these really obnoxious straight up and down growing.
I call it the Cush, the Cush characteristic.
Like it's this, this tall, leggy, like OG, like kind of growth characteristic.
And it has, I call it also the Cush leaf formation where it's like all the leaflets are like faced straight forward.
And there's nothing like coming down off the bottoms and nothing.
It's like a couple of leaflets, you can't fucking see.
But a couple of leaflets and they're all just like just straight forward, kind of mean looking.
It's, it's, it's kind of unique.
And you see it in a couple of the, the really nasty, like the Hell's Angel OG.
I saw it in a lot. I saw it in the, you know, in the Dog Walker sometimes.
Like at particular points when, when it's in like peak health, all the leaflets kind of come together.
And they like kind of almost overlap and like get all sharp and, and, and facing forward.
But it's got that kind of characteristic.
And that, that kind of told me that, hey, this might have some gas in it.
You know what I mean? Kind of what I'm looking for.
And it was the gas type line.
So I let that puppy grow out.
I cloned a bunch of them and I let that puppy grow out and flower.
And he started developing some resin nodules all on the, on the base of the leaflets, which was nice.
It wasn't as much as like the, the, the resin males that I've, I've found before, but it wasn't the least resin male either.
It definitely had some frigging resin there and you can see it like, like doing, you know, so.
Basically, it, it definitely, definitely has a rubbery, chew, cushiness smell to it.
But it's more pickly and cushy when he did the stem rub.
But basically it, it was an awesome male and I still have it to this day.
And I've been seeing kind of what he did through the course of the day, but I actually bred him with the, the Pan 15 right off the bat.
And I'm like, this is going to be a cool plant.
And when I was flowering out a bunch of these things, they all had these giant, giant frigging, I mean, it had excellent, excellent, like crazy stretch, which is annoying, but it's all good.
But it's also a beautiful thing to watch when it stretches and then it just like, it fills in and they're just these perfect spheres of glory.
When I was pushing it up against the nets, it smeared all of this resin on the side of the nets and left this really greasy mess.
And I'm like, you know, I'm like, we're going to call this bacon grease after a couple hours, I was smoking a bowl.
I'm like, I'm going to call that bacon grease, you know, so that's like, it earned the right bacon grease for sure.
I took a couple of select plants out of that generation and the plant that actually sprayed, the plant, the best plant smelling in veg in my whole garden was a bacon grease male this year.
So I pulled that bad boy out. I thought it was a female, kind of like that 3D CBD.
It was like this beautiful plant, it smelled really, really good.
I was extra excited about it and turned out to be a male.
So I was like, not all bad.
So I pulled out those sphere, the sphere bacon grease, you can see it on my Instagram.
There's a sphere female that is just ferocious.
And I pulled out another one that has just got some grease on it, like you wouldn't believe.
Similar bud structure, similar everything, just a little bit different.
Just looks a little different resin wise.
And I'm going to breed with both of those with that male.
And I, well, I did breed with both of those, that male and we're going through the F2 generation right now.
I still have that bacon grease male. I'm keeping that motherfucker close because he's a good one.
And it's a reeker.
And that F2 generation is going to solidify here as soon as I can get it all cleaned up and I actually see the end flower and weed out any problems.
It should just be beautiful.
So the end of the year, I'll feel confident and we'll get rid of the bacon grease F2s.
And I'll also be that open population.
So you'll have a lot of cool stuff in there and you'll have my Pam, which is going to keep it pretty like on, on compass.
And you're going to get a lot of cool, cool, cool grease coming.
The pandemic is also like equally as cool.
And every time I hype my bacon grease, I feel bad.
I'm like, because the pandemic, I'm always in there smelling.
I'm like, damn, this pandemic is fucking dang.
You know what I mean? It's like, fuck it.
And that's, that's, that's CSI Humble took the triangle cush and the real Chem 91.
And, you know, if you know, Caleb from CSI Humble, you know, he's got verified, you know, shit, he's got the real deal.
So this is the real Chem 91 and the real triangle cush, you know, for, for, for all purposes.
None of the, none of the confusion there.
So he reversed the Chem 91.
He put it on the triangle cush and made some stuff called Gator bait, which is triangle cush Chem 91, man.
Feminized, ready to go.
He did a lot of that awesome gas work for you.
Cut out the middleman, especially with the feminized work.
So I got a, got some of those seeds, found one of those plants that when you smoke it through the joint, it like, it stays delicious, like extra delicious all the way to that last rip.
And you light it, you know, you light it that next day or the couple days later and you're like, damn, that still tastes, that still tastes good.
You know, you're like, goddamn, I like that.
And there's not a lot of, not a lot of, you know, I'm a bowl smoker and I'm a bong smoker and I do different things like that.
So I don't notice the joint, you know, taste as much.
As of lately, I've been looking to that as a breeding thing.
Like I always try to like implement like, hey, what, what is this and how does it look and what does it do in the mouth that way to try to just make a better plant in general for everybody.
But that was one of the ones that was really a standout.
Like it's like, fuck, this is, this is one of those good ones that is going to stick around.
Definitely Chem 91, definitely Triangle Kush, definitely all those traits you look for, fucking rock hard, greasy, beautiful, just fucking gas house nugs.
I took that and I crossed to a PAMF 2 stud.
One of my selected bitches.
I mean, he is the, he's the man, dude.
Awesome fucking dumpage, great stem rum.
All of the offspring that he's created so far is, I got no complaints from him at all.
He's done exactly what I thought he was going to do.
Being all said and done.
And that combined, you know, trying to get my PAMF, you know, infiltrated with gasoline because that's my overall goal.
It has been, I've been saying it since the fucking beginning, I want to put gas into PAMF.
And sometimes if you can't, if the female side doesn't want to give you the gas, you have to go through it on the male side and get the gas, you know.
So I'm trying, I'm going through the back door.
And what I did find is that the gator bait, the Triangle Kush, and that one did dominate the structure and the plant in the cross a lot more than it would have the other way.
So now I've got way more plants that look more like Triangle Kush and Chem 91 that have a lot more like PAM influence in a different way in those unseen ways, you know, which is really cool.
And also makes that weird, cool, almost a true fucking F1 in a weird way because those are really fucking awesome, you know, old school plants that are, you know.
And then he's further compressed the gene pool by feminizing it, you know what I mean?
And then you've got a really strong breeding plan on my end.
So you get, you get some cool balance and some cool variation and it's a, that one's coming out.
So I'm really stoked on the PAMDemic.
I'm really stoked on the bacon grease.
It's some of my best work to date.
That's going to be towards the end of the year.
I want to make sure that when I got them, that everything's perfect and people can get them.
PAM 15, more stuff is hitting the PAM 15.
I got a black lime reserve, Testerosa, Testerosa black lime reserve from my boy Josh there that I pulled out of some seed stock from him.
That, that hit a PAM 15 and a bunch of other things that we got to look at, you know, still.
What was the flavor on the stem that you selected?
Yeah, so that one, it was straight fucking gas, dude.
Like some people, like old, like, Mean Gene.
He always said like dill pickles and stuff kind of led to gas in a lot of ways.
And it does in some cases, you know what I mean?
I've gotten gas out of dill pickles.
But this plant actually smelled like fucking kush.
You know what I mean?
Like it was like, wow, that is an enjoyable gasoline smell that I was really pleased with.
The plant itself was one of the slowest growing and smallest plants of the group.
Like it was like slow and it was small and the leaves were smaller and it was just smaller.
But it has nice big flowers and not a lot of leaf, you know, compared to the flowers.
It showed sex late, but the smell and it smelled from an early age, like really, it didn't smell kushy until it got to the point where it actually showed sex.
Yeah, it's a male.
You pulled a female.
Oh, you pulled a female?
Yeah.
I have a bunch of it.
Yeah, I pulled a male.
Yeah.
So I was, I'm going for more, there's kind of two versions of the more fruity and then the more gas.
And I've been going down the gas line.
And then in this F2, I found one that was like way gassier.
I found one that was like way gassier than the one I was originally smoking.
Like, okay, you're a step sister.
Sorry.
Bumped.
Totally.
See you later.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Be careful.
I did that one time and I was like, oh man, should I have done that?
Yeah, I should have done that.
Your first gut instinct, you know, is keep yourself up at night, you know, like, holy shit, you know, but yeah, man, like I was really impressed with the way it turned out.
Like the, just the rub on it, it earned it because it was slow and it was small and it kept getting drowned out by other things because it wasn't growing as fast as everything else.
You know what I mean?
But every time I touched it and pulled it out and like smelled it or like pull off the leaf, I'm like, fuck you're saying.
I said, put it back down.
It was like, okay.
And then it turned out that he had a really nice, really nice smell.
So that he earned it.
Yeah.
It should put gas into the pan for sure.
I mean, cause it's got the Royal in there and the Royal pretty much is like screams through just like the pan.
So there'll be a good.
Yeah.
So it hit a bunch of stuff.
I put them in.
I put that to a mega babe.
Come clock garlic, you know, the one that I pulled out this year, man, on my mega babe, which is the mama that came out of the 10,000 plant phenol on it.
That humbled it.
And that's what the Pam and that bitching ass plan I pulled out of there.
And I hit that, that, that test was a black line to that one too.
And a bunch of random stuff, the mega dose seeks that dosey dough into the, to the mega babe.
The more Pam 15 stuff.
As of now, nympho, I have a nympho pollen that I just getting prepared.
And that is a, that's a Pam S one hot.
It's a hot sister.
You seen pictures on the hot sister on my Instagram.
She's fucking hot.
It's a Pam S one and she's fucking hot.
She, she bred with a month in male and that, and also bred with, I took a month in male and a Pam male and I put them in the room with that one lady.
And I did a diff two different male pollination with the one, with the one lady.
And I called that nympho.
And so the nympho, I have a killer male that, that just got great smell and structure and all kinds of good stuff.
Here's bacon grease, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's a bacon grease.
It's glitching on mine, but I can see that's bacon grease.
Yep.
That's the, that's one of the females that came down recently.
That one is frigging off the hook, man.
Smelling that's just delightful.
There's more bacon grease.
Yeah.
They're nasty.
They're greasy.
Just like, I mean, they're grease.
That's not like bacon.
And some people ask if it's fake.
It's not bacon.
It's just, you know, bacon grease, when you leave it out in the pan, it's just this white nastiness.
So, and it's just got a bunch of white nastiness.
So that's, it's, it's greasy, man.
It's good.
So, but yeah, there's some, there's some good stuff, but there's some good stuff on the horizon for sure.
I'm doing some PAM F4s.
I'm looking at some of those.
I'm looking at, I've got a PAMdemic male that's really, I'm really excited about.
He's got resin on him and he's, he's sharp and that's, yeah, that's, that's something that I'm like, hey, fuck, I'm going to keep this guy around.
Maybe I'm going to have to, I'm going to have to go create a male zone somewhere, you know, at one of my buddies' house and just hold a whole flock of dudes.
Cause there's some good dudes coming out right now.
I'm looking for the hot sister.
But that, you know, those dog beaches, which was, reminds me, I got to break out some dog beach.
That's what I want to fucking smoke right now.
Speaking of dog beach.
I got to head to get some photos to send to you, but I don't know what happened of, of the PAM F2 males I pulled that have, that are totally resinous.
And it's just, fuck beautiful.
You know, reveging and the reveging from, from cuts, right?
So I took the cuts, rooted them and then, and then they're still reveging.
It's taken a while.
So they got all red and a little bit of yellow.
They're still dumping a little bit of pollen too, you know?
And, but they have these like, geez, red, fucking trichome covered up just fucking things.
I don't know what to call them.
Yeah.
Yeah.
All kinds of fucking shit.
You know, I was watching a girl walk around with like, It's like she had her clothes on today and then she had like all this shit, like draped off of her.
And it's like, it's like a team.
And then there was more shit like on top.
And then she was beautiful.
And it's like, wow, she had all this shit draped off of her, but that's how I feel.
Like, you know, it's how the PAMs are.
It's like a cape and then there was more shit like on top and she was beautiful and I was like wow
She's got all this shit draped off of her. That's how I feel like, you know, that's how the pams are
Dude, there's just all this just just extra shit everywhere. It's pretty shit
just girl shit
so
All all this stuff we've been talking about will be ready like
What november yeah, so i'm hoping uh, like the first of the year
I'm, hoping january like yeah right there right around. Yeah, right. So we'll be doing right before christmas
as everybody
Keep your christmas money in your pocket
Totally it'll be right around january 1st. We're gonna extract it from your
The pandemic is coming bacon grease is coming
Yeah, those are a lot of things to have to push it so hard
You know for emerald cup, sorry
Yeah quickly, oh yeah if emerald cup were happening, uh
Yeah
If you had to pick one of the ones, uh on the website
for washing
Um i'd say
For washing you probably wanna
And you want to stay with like, uh, the the orchard lady will probably be
Yeah, man i'd say orchard lady is a good one for washing
um
She's gonna give you she's gonna be she's gonna be like that much. She's got the resin male dad
So she's got extra resin profile to her and then her bud structure isn't super rock solid and like extra dense
Um, there you go. It will we'll get you some brother. Um
i'd say
hubble
Hubble
Like killer if you don't mind greasing up your bags like so there's like like I look for grease
And there's like a sandy there's sandy resin types and there's like
You watch it's all cool
Yeah, yeah, yeah being 40 degrees, you know
Like cool yourself down and like washing those temperatures and lots of those like like the hubble
Pheno one and shit man, you'll get some just high quality stuff
But the yield's gonna suck because of the grease factor, you know
The grease sticks to everything and plugs stuff up and it's just harder to to work with so
The sandier phenos that that i'm gonna have like I like the grease. I'm i'm a flower smoker
I like to press it. You can press grease out really easily but a little bit easier than washing it I think
Um, but like yeah, i'm a flower person first. So like, you know, I like greasy stuff
Um, yeah greasy pam so that's the bacon grease, you know, that's that's what you're gonna want
That's the bacon grease the greasy pam
uh, or the the dog the dog beach has the grease in it too because you have the
The dog walker and that has got that chem grease factor in there, too
So phenos are there but like you're like the hula dancer would be a good washer that had more sandier
You know type resin structure the the orchard lady has more sandier resin, you know washing structure
um the
What the lady breath that's a cookie, you know thing you're gonna get washing and hash made with those things
It's gonna break off and have that, you know those that that double cookie
Ogee, kush ogee kb type stuff in there. So that's gonna give you some some good washability
I'd say those three
I'll be your best ones to for washing and then hovel and dog beach
And those types of stuff, you know more for pressing
And flour, um flour consumption and stuff or rso, you know, if you're cooking stuff down for rso
Then you know, it really you know, it doesn't matter. You're good. You you can get it you get it going on. Um,
but
The yeah, I don't know what what actually makes the resin hand gland become more greasy than it does
You know sandy I think it has to do with elevation
I think it has to do with like
Environment, you know what it has to resist but i'm not 100 sure like if it's phenols or what I like this one
Peter pan
What makes sense like what?
Something that's more adaptive to like my environment's gonna be greasier so it can repel
The water, you know, yes
Takes off the water. Yeah
Yeah, which explains a lot for me because I can grow a lot of greasy stuff from seed
And it's more sandy or more sandy phenols will kind of you know express themselves, you know, we're a lot drier here, you know
That doesn't need the grease
But you get more grease up there cascading
I I think some of that has to do with like waxes and lipids and and um
having that
that I think that's actually what some of that grease is is
yeah getting the
The trichome had stuck in a layer of like waxes and lipids on those small leafs and the bracts
Similar to how you can see a waxy layer on like fan leafs when you have like a drought tolerant plant
It's the same thing. It's just a secretion on those those bracts
gotcha
yeah, i've always
Tried to figure out if I could change something from grease to sandy just based on where i've grown it
but yeah, if you're a greasy clone, you're gonna be a greasy clone, you know, so
Definitely a
Strength in it but
All right
the uh timer before I get yelled at uh for dinner is uh
I'm in the red zone right now. So why don't we wrap it on that? But uh
We got josh. Who do we have? Um
Um olfactory genetics
All right, and then wednesday
Uh seattle super chronic rob
Well, you you you set the bar high with with the ron poupee, uh
Doppelganger but uh, hopefully those guys will bring their a-game too, but uh, I hope so man
You're good people. Uh
Toss this uh black soldier fly larva outside and uh
And go cook some dinner, can I um
Make an announcement, uh real quick. Uh, we were on the other night, uh raising some funds for um
Leo who got uh got got arrested
Um, and we're doing the same thing tonight. Uh, leo blockchain novelties
He runs a seed bank and supports a lot of a lot of breeders
that we're all friends with and a ton of guys been a big help to my friend nick and he
Does a lot of auctions and like so much charity work
And uh, he's in jail right now. He needs some representation. So we did a fundraiser the other night and um,
Dark horse genetics is going on tonight and everyone's hopping on
Masonic's going to be on there and i'm going to hop on and i'm going to uh be getting rid of some more of those. Uh gmo
uh
across vx group here
across uh
Two's and uh some other stuff I have a whole whole line of stuff i'm gonna
so just to throw that out to folks, uh, if you have a
Some time and want to get some cool gear that's going to be happening like pretty much right now
Awesome. You guys you guys uh, you get my nympho thing. Did you guys get my nympho pack? You put my nympho pack up there?
I don't know
I I have to go look back. Thanks for reminding me that
You want to put my pack up there if you want me to send you another text or just yell at me
but I got a pack of that it's uh
It's that nympho. It's the it's the double male pollination on the hot sister
Yeah, hot sisters the the pam s1 and I used a munson and a pam male
Uh tag teamed her and that made nympho and I never released any I didn't make very many of them
I just you know, it's just a fun thing made these crazy gigantic bitchin seeds that are just funcidelic
Uh, but yeah, so I you know, I was i'll offer up a pack of those for somebody who wants to be
Sorry, it's just
Yeah, yeah, so i'll send you. Yeah. Thank you
Thanks everybody for uh hopping on and my fucking tyler
Rocket dude, uh, i'm so impressed with your work, man
um, I've said it a bunch before but uh, you just keep going deeper dude and pulling out the reserves and
Yo, yeah, I definitely
Here man, you got a hundred of those pams and I was impressed
They they they uh, the females had a hard time in my environment. It's just so long here, you know
um, but the males i'm excited i'm gonna put them on some stuff and
If I can't shorten that time down and you know
No, they'll carry that info, you know what I mean?
When everyone was going through them they're like what is this what is this i'm like panman and they're like
Awesome
So it's like one of those things they find, you know, they'll find ways to keep you, you know
You're like make you keep them, you know, so it's weird
They'll come at you
Anybody's got questions. You'll let me yell at me
All right, well with that we will let the man in the yellow hat, uh also go eat some dinner yes
Have a good night everybody and yeah, uh the the uh, the auction or the uh fundraising continues tonight
um
And then uh tomorrow i'm gonna be tallying up this stuff from monday with uh, shelby
And reconciling and uh, by the way, since everybody keeps asking me josh, uh, the ital packs were what crossed with what?
Up you're muted
Up we lost it
Anyway, all right. I gotta go because the wife's uh freaking out right now. So
Everybody have a good night. And uh tomorrow actually we have masonic smoker tomorrow here. Uh, I forgot at a 10 a.m
pacific
um
Anyway, have a good night and uh, we'll see some of you tomorrow. All right. Bye guys
later
