Okay, we are imminently live and we are live.
All right.
Cool, thanks for having me man.
Yeah, toss some beer.
Thanks for joining me and look who is showing up to the party.
It's our art historian.
There is the art historian and dab enthusiast.
Look at that you already have your rig.
Hi. Oh yeah, just actually are we are we live right now. We are live we literally was going live as you showed up in the room.
Hey everybody.
So, so
there may be some other people trickling in but uh, so basically we were just talking you you Brett use just because nobody else heard this but you you source from a single farm, and that farm happens to be your amazing wife and her dad, like best father in law ever.
Can you talk about that. Can we first, I hope you at least appreciate how good you have it.
I beyond appreciate how I know I know I tell everybody to Alex being single source is one thing but then my wife, being the one that's the cultivating it and my father in law's kind of like on a different level than I've ever gotten to see anybody get.
It's very very I'm very lucky.
Now how long have you been with her.
I've been married to her for seven years, and we've been together for 11.
So you don't have like there wasn't like a BC like a before your wife hash making like where you had to find other sources it's just like, as you started to become a hash maker she was by your side.
Yeah, exactly. She's actually the one that pushed me it's a really cool story actually.
Hold on, let Frank let me let me hold on what do you have.
Nice Santa is a timer, because I was about to take a dab.
The.
He's got his cool timer.
I'm
and you're in Sonoma or where are you based out of Mendocino.
Oh you're in Mendoza okay got it got it. And Frank you're you're in Sonoma right.
Okay, yeah so the lab is in Santa Rosa but I'm actually living about a half hour south of Santa Rosa.
Okay, so down kind of heading towards the Bay Area. Yeah, yeah. Okay.
Yeah, now I remember driving up to Santa Rosa and passing like some super scenic farmland and being like, exactly.
This should be the spot to have 10 acres.
Yeah, yeah. Oh yeah, yeah, in the wine, wine country. Perfect.
So it's interesting because one of you, you know is single. One of you is monogamous and Frank you're just a big slut you're very promiscuous with your.
So you're, you're like going from farm to farm right.
We are but yeah we have a we keep it tightly knit actually and we are keeping it to probably the farms that we are working with as of right now we've taken on a bunch of new ones but I feel like we are going to meet capacity on the, the amount of people
that are doing what we're looking for which is biodynamic regenerative cannabis is really not, you know, a whole ton of people are that are doing it that way it's not commercial commercially, you know, feasible and stuff it's not the way to go if you're
trying to make a bunch of money and stuff so it's like there's not a million people doing it that way. You know, so we've met like, you know, around 40 farms or something like that, you know that we're working with and, you know, I think it's pretty awesome that we found that many people you know they're doing, you know, organic and this and that, you know, to that level.
So, well for 40 is not a small number of farms so you're right guys are working with ball, give or take 30 to 40 farms around there and that's to us, like you know so some farms we work with to a very small degree we've worked with once or twice you know, and then some farms we're doing business with constantly.
So, so can you give some love to some of those farms what are what are some of your favorite. Absolutely. Yeah.
I'm not gonna leave anyone out but let's start at number one and get to number four. Someone's gonna be pissed that you left him out.
Why don't you shout out to some of them. Yeah sun roots farm radical herbs farm.
Little Hill cultivators wildland cannabis.
Lady sativa farm.
Fresh off the hill farm grouse Valley.
There's a whole bunch. There are a lot of them, they're all on our Instagram and stuff like that. I'll start repeating them though if I keep going.
That's. And so, so hella danks kind of like what you guys are known for is kind of working with regenerative.
Yep.
Okay, trying to help the small farmers in the Emerald Triangle and we're actually launching a flower brand really soon, right now we're working on. So, awesome.
Yeah, like like rosin like like hash pre rolls like with hash in them or so we already have those on the market actually you have been doing hash infused pre rolls for the last year or so and gotten us in a bunch of different stores because not many people are making hash infused pre rolls we're trying to do, like, you know, get the crop from a cultivator and then make ice water hash out of the trim, and then infuse it back into the flower and make it you know really, you know, awesome pre roll that way so it's like a significant, you know, like, really.
Classier product you know, but we've had those on the shelf already but now we're actually just doing eights of flowers so we can actually help the farm to get their entire plant to shelf, you know, into product basically.
What so you, you, the new product you're coming to market with is is like flower in a jar flower as a pre roll both.
Well it's new for us I guess but basically yeah we're just we've, it's our first time selling flower just as it so what we're able to do with this is we're buying the entire plan from them and then we're processing it down into hash.
If it's good enough we're going to process it down directly into flower and sell it as flower, but it's basically able to help the farms, being that they're not able to you know due to the laws and so that they're not able to process on their facilities any longer it's
up to a distribution company or someone with their best interest in mind. So we're trying to help you know, keep those farms afloat and stuff and have their best interest in mind because we want to have that good product gets the market we also want those farms to be sustainable
and, you know, all this.
Sorry I'm looking at the chat and Joey said Tom Hill is alive. He's been following the mean gene.
Instagram posts. Yes.
So some of the so that I would assume that like the farms are doing that with our farms that don't have their brand out in the market themselves because I assume of a farm has a brand they're probably like the flowers what they're leading with right, right yeah this is very
I mean, you know, a lot of farms I guess it's not that easy for them to get to market you can't have you can't trim on your, on your facility, you can't have a trimming, you know thing unless you have a specific building facility for trimming and stuff like
that so you know it's a lot harder than it was a few years ago, and stuff so trying to help farmers, be able to get to their product to market where they otherwise wouldn't otherwise a company might buy it and then put their own sticker on it, you know this.
So, so are you going to do kind of like, I guess my only comparable would be like flow Kano where they have like the flow kind of branding and then they like name the farm.
You know, on the packaging to like this is from this farm. Yeah, yeah, exactly. That kind of thing except I kind of feel like more emphasis on the farmer, then, then they do a small.
So he will help them to grow to rather than it'll yeah it'll accelerate their own business and that benefits everybody. Absolutely, exactly. That's idea.
That's the reality.
That's all.
Well, doing that will help them to grow too,
rather than it'll accelerate their own business.
And that benefits everybody.
Absolutely.
Exactly.
That's the idea.
Can you talk about, I mean, because you
guys are a bunch of young bucks.
And you guys had to start.
At one point, nobody knew who you were.
And were you just showing up at farms and being like, hi,
my name's Frank.
Hi, I'm Igor.
like we'd like to take your amazing flower
and turn it into, you know, six star hash.
Yeah, I mean, basically actually the first farm
I think of right now that I left off that list
is Five Sisters Farm and she's a really great example
of that experience right there.
Cause we were reaching out specifically,
we like, there's a million people growing weed
in California or whatever, you know,
what we were specifically searching for organic,
top tier, high quality organic
and people that really care about the earth and stuff.
The whole regenerative thing is that people are looking
into the next generation.
They're not just caring about what's going on right now.
They're, you know, thinking about the future and stuff
and what they're gonna pass down
to the next generation and stuff, you know.
So finding farms aligning with like that,
where like I got on the phone and did a cold call
with Five Sisters Farm, just being myself
and pouring my heart out kind of onto her voicemail.
And, you know, just cause we were looking for farmers
and, you know, I said to my boss, even I said,
hey, if we do these long form, you know, emails
and things, these are real people and they have families.
They're gonna feel that rather than something that,
you know, we type out and copy and paste and stuff,
even though we ended up, like I wrote something
with my heart and soul and kind of did copy and paste it,
but it was with heart and soul.
And she responded to that and we got
into a phone conversation.
And from there, we're both excited to meet each other.
And she actually, before we even met in person,
she gave us the opportunity to host Northern Nights
with her.
So that was a more specific opportunity,
but basically with all the farms that we met,
yeah, we put it out there, what we wanted to do.
And we put it out there, our mission and our goal,
which is like not having any other,
any solvents going on at the laboratory.
You know, like we don't do, we don't do like half
ice water hash and then, you know, a whole bunch
of other stuff and, you know, have a whole different brand
with solvents or whatever, like none of that in the office
and stuff like that.
So it's all ice water hash and our whole thing
is to promote the farmers because they're the ones
that spend all the time with the plant and stuff, you know.
So, I mean, you know, if you're a small farmer
and you're trying to get your brand out there
and all these things are working against you
in the industry and stuff like that, it seems to me,
yes, this is them, five sisters.
Shout out to Born Season, Season is her name.
Born Seasoned is her Instagram.
You know, but if you're in the situation
where everything is working against you
and working against your business
and working against your economically, like, you know,
the small craftsmen in all angles nowadays
in the modern market are getting worked against
as far as the industry goes, you know.
Somebody reaches out and kind of, you know,
we're a small company too and we talked about that.
You know, my boss, he has two kids and, you know,
but he's not much older than me.
He's like 34, you know, so I'm 27, sorry.
So, you know.
I'm 30, no, 23, no, 27.
So, yeah, it worked out really well
with Five Sisters Farms and with Sunroots
and all the other biodynamic farms that we met
that are really into that thing
because that's what we were, you know,
looking for specifically.
We don't work with other farms that are not like that.
So we did put ourselves out there as new people,
but I guess with our passion
for what we're trying to do specifically,
it matched the people that were looking
for something reciprocating what they're doing, so.
So just quickly, Brett, what's your wife's farm?
Healing Herb Farms.
All right, let me just pull it up.
Healing Herb Farms.
All right, so that's this one, right?
Yep.
So can you talk about, you know,
kind of what cultivars they're running
and then as you, the hash maker,
kind of like come on site and evaluate,
like which ones are kind of the hash,
the yielders and which ones aren't
and which ones are like, you know,
they probably have some stuff that's like flour
for the market and other stuff that you're like,
I'll take all that.
Yeah, well, so right now what's going on is
they produce flour for the market
and everything I'm doing is just minimal
and just getting for R&D.
We're not actually on the market for extracts.
And so when I entered into the cup,
I entered into a personal use.
All right, right.
Yeah, and I remember that, yep.
And so I don't really, unfortunately,
I don't really get to determine anything like that
because they're gonna be making flour for the market,
not for concentrates.
So it doesn't normally work out to where I'll be like,
oh, I really like that strain.
They'll be like, yeah, we don't like it.
So that's usually how it works out.
We don't like that one, we didn't keep it.
So what's like a cultivar that they sadly put a bullet
in the back of the head of because for their purposes,
it like wasn't marketable, but for you, you were like,
ah, that's amazing, that makes amazing hash.
Banana Mac.
Okay.
It was amazing.
And so is that something that you could grow,
like you could take a cut of and grow at home or?
Yeah, exactly.
Your six plants?
Yes, and that's what I do, things like that, exactly.
Because then my wife can still cultivate it at our house.
And that was one of them.
You know, gosh, there was a few of them.
Shit, Frank would probably know better than me.
The Banana Mac was one of the sad ones,
I would have to say.
They ended up.
And do you know who's like, who the breeder is for that?
That was Cap, Capulator.
Okay.
Yeah, he has it right there, that's what he was getting.
Yeah, see he has.
All right, wait, yeah, Frank, hold that back up.
Let me.
Yeah.
That stuff came out ridiculous too.
Oh my gosh.
I just love that flavor profile and that stuff is amazing.
That glisten has me drooling.
Yeah, the.
Oh my God, you're killing me over here.
I'm like, I'm drooling.
I'm drooling.
I'm drooling.
I'm drooling.
I'm drooling.
I'm drooling.
Oh my God, you're killing me over here.
Frank, you're a good hand model.
Oh my God, I'm sweating.
Yeah, and then actually recently I've been fortunate enough
to find a couple of strains
that actually worked really well for me and them.
Such as?
Lemonhead Zittles, number six.
That was something that turned out really good
for both of them and I.
And Motor Breath was really, really good.
Yeah, he's probably got all of these
that we're talking about.
Yeah.
All right, wait, hold on.
Frank, give me one second.
All right.
That's which one?
That's the Lemonhead or that's the Motor Breath?
That's Motor Breath.
I bet you.
It looked like it to me.
He knew it before I flipped it over.
Yeah, it looked like Motor Breath to me.
Yeah, that is ridiculous right there.
That's something I would enter into a cup.
Yeah, it came out really good.
Awesome, yeah, delicious.
Very delicious.
And then they did an ice cream cake by White Mango
because the ice cream cake
is what I won the Emerald Cup with.
Their White Mango is something
that my family made the genetics for.
It's a very white cross with a mango
that Frank and I both loved.
And Frank has some of that for sure too.
And it tastes like a mango.
It's really crazy.
The flavor profile when you exhale and blow it out,
it's just like you're biting into a mango.
Frank, just quickly,
how much different product do you have at home right now?
Like from different hash makers?
Quite a bit.
I'm not sure off the top of my head.
I could open the fridge up if you want.
You've got a lot.
Take the camera over to the fridge if you wanna see.
We can do a little tour of the fridge in a little bit.
So it seems like if I understand correctly,
Frank, you're more on the traditional hash side
and Brett, you're more on the rosin side.
Like you're more pressing
and Frank, you're more just like temple balls.
You're like a Frenchie disciple.
So honestly, I actually consider Bird
to be like the very most powerful possibly
in my knowledge, Frenchie disciple.
Cause he like, he took it,
the lightning bolt struck him
and he allowed the energy to do something new.
And it's the rosin is like, you know,
he's teaching people rosin and diamonds
and he's teaching the hash too.
Bird knows a ton about hash.
So I learned, we've been, you know,
experimenting and talking and all kinds of stuff about,
you know, all types of stuff.
He's been experimenting more than myself,
but we've been talking about, you know,
and I've been learning, you know,
just from hearing him talk.
So now he knows a ton about hash as well.
But yes, so the company that I work with, Hella Denk,
we are more so focused on hash,
but we are also doing other things.
We're expanding out and we've been doing rosin
and expanding our rosin process and stuff like that.
And then we're also doing solventless diamonds too.
So, you know, me, myself personally.
And I remember editing that like six hour video.
Who is that dude from your company that was on the press?
Star Shine.
Yep.
He's the rosin master over here at Hella Denk.
Yeah.
So yeah, no, I think it's cool.
Cause Brett, it seems like you were doing it,
like the class you were doing,
reminded me of Frenchy's like hashed classes,
but it was the rosin version of it.
Yeah.
I learned from Frenchy a couple of times.
I took his classes.
And so I was trying to kind of pack what he did
into a class.
That's why it was two days as well.
And also cover turning it into rosin.
So I covered everything that he kind of covered
and with my little bit of a twist on it.
And then added the rosin aspect to it.
I feel like that kind of completed it in my mind right now.
Cause then I also did show Temple Balls,
how to make a Temple Ball.
We did make a Temple Ball and then we did isolation
for THCA and made rosin.
So we kind of covered the whole gamut that we did jar tech,
where we put it in the oven.
That's the Temple Ball.
Yeah.
Oh wait, sorry, Frank.
I was looking down, hold on.
Oh wait, no, that's me.
There we go.
Frank, we need to work on your camera's ability to refocus.
Hold your hand behind it.
Yeah, the webcams are not the best though.
Hold it back a tiny bit.
Hold your hand behind it like this.
Look at that, she's a pro.
Yes, there it is.
That's the money shot.
Look at that.
So that was the Temple Ball that we made at the class.
And we pretty much like,
we started out showing how to process it off the plant,
how to freeze it the best way
so that you don't cause any contaminants
or chlorophyll to bleach into the hash.
And then we showed how to wash it.
We had a washing onsite.
We washed some Lemonhead Zittles, number six,
that is a really beautiful color.
And it does yield fairly well, actually, as well.
And we did the wash.
After we did the wash, we did some pressing
and we prepped some stuff for the THCA for the next day.
And did some THCA isolation, which was really fun.
That's a long process.
Took like three hours and 30 presses to do that.
And we finished it off making some Temple Balls
and kind of covered the whole gamut
of how you get it off the plant,
everything other than growing it.
So what, when you smoke,
like if you were to take kind of like the consistency
that you like more often than other consistencies,
what would it be?
It would be like this consistency, I would say right here.
Let me see if I have skills good enough.
Yeah.
Ooh.
Take it out and show you.
Is that the jam or the sauce?
This is the Bird Tech one we did.
Should definitely tell them about that.
Yeah, so let's talk about Bird Tech
cause that has your name in it.
Okay, so it's a process.
It's a process of, so once you press the hash,
you have what people are considering fresh pressed, right?
Your hash is pressed rosin, right?
And from that point,
you have many different ways you can deal with it.
Depends on what kind of consistency you're going for.
I'd say it depends on when you're gonna have it consumed
and how it's gonna be stored.
All those things is really gonna be determined,
I feel on how you're gonna wanna make consistency.
So I like to have a consistency
that can actually not be stored in the refrigerator
and be wet and not have oxidizing or deteriorating
because the terpene layer is kind of preserving
the oxygen from permeating through it,
making it last longer, longer shelf life
and more user-friendly.
You can put it on a dab tool easier
and get it in your dab and you get it all out of a jar.
That's my favorite consistency.
So the Vertec is, you end up with that consistency.
You actually end up with two different consistencies
and then you smash it down to get the wet one.
But what it is, is you press the rosin fresh pressed
and then you put it in a jar
and you put it in a jar full,
like to where there's no oxygen at all.
And you put the lid on the jar right away.
If you don't put it on right away,
it will cause it to just muffin and grow right away.
So timing's important.
You get it in there and you get that pressure in there
and there's no oxygen.
So then you put it on a heat mat, 80 degrees.
And then that will keep everything malleable,
allowing the THCA and everything to bind with itself
more readily and faster under rapid rate.
And since there was no oxygen in this process,
it'll actually happen to not oxidize your hash at all
because of the oxygen's what's oxidizing the hash
causing it to change color.
So you'll get a considerably lighter color hash
if you do that technique
and you just put it on there for a few hours usually,
depending on the strains.
Some strains like to go four, five, six hours.
Some of them be done in two.
Depends on the consistency you're going for.
So then I'll take it out of the jar
and put it in another jar that's larger.
So then I can, it'll be kind of crumbly
like cornbread consistency somewhat.
And what's happening is as it cures,
there's so many voids in there
that under a microscope you would see.
And those were the terpenes they're laying
and all of these cavities out throughout the hash
as it cured.
And so you smash all that down.
First you remove it from the jar
and then you put it in the corner of another jar.
You don't whip it.
People say it's whipped.
That's not really, it's kind of a misterm to me
because you don't want to introduce oxygen
and whipping it is what you would be doing.
You'd be introducing oxygen,
like making a flan or something,
or like a cake, you know what I mean, or something.
So you want to smash it down in the corner
and get all the oxygen out.
And what will happen is the terpenes
will have all those voids to lay in
and it will lick the outside
like peanut butter does in the jar
where there will be an extra layer of the terpenes
laying on the outside
because there's not that much surface area for it to lay in.
Like if you did the math,
when all those voids were in there,
it would actually be a very large amount
of difference in surface area.
So kind of seems technical, but it's not.
And as people, many people like I
have come across this on accident.
You know, when your hash is cured up
and you just kind of play with it
because you take a dab out of it
and then you smash the rest of it down,
like playing with it.
And you might even have whipped it the first time
just because you've heard whipped, you know,
but then you start realizing what you're doing.
If you're like me and you're trying to figure out
how to replicate it and do it correctly.
And so when you do it that way,
you'll find that you'll get a considerably lighter hash.
And we did some hash that way at the class,
just like the bird tech I show.
And then we did some that was just normally cured
and there was considerable amount of difference in color.
And you get a little bit more of a turp wet layer.
You don't lose as many of the volatile turpenes
that just are gonna vaporize off into the air
or get, you know, burnt up from the oxygen
that would be the head space in the jar.
That's fabulous.
It's so funny.
I've heard whipped so often,
but you're not describing a whisking motion at all.
We're not whipped at all.
In fact, I tell people don't whip your hash please,
because it's just putting oxygen.
The last thing you wanna do is add oxygen
to cause this to break down.
And so if it's got like,
and so if you did it and you put it,
after you did my technique where you kind of crush it down,
you can put it back in the jar that it was in
and it would be smaller.
It's like, since you've removed the voids and everything.
And that consistency is what I prefer.
And it's easiest to get off of all the jars.
It's like, you don't feel like you lost a bunch
when you get a gram.
Peter, you're muted.
If you're talking.
Yeah, he's muted.
I just seen that.
This is my first time on Zoom.
Is this something that you taught in the class?
Like, I find it interesting people
who kind of have techniques and are willing to share them
versus other people who kind of like,
are like, that's my garden secret.
It's like my competitive advantage.
People are being about their,
I've had people tell me
that I need to keep my secrets proprietary, in fact.
And I always tell everybody that that's not really how,
Frenchy didn't teach me like that.
That's not how Frenchy taught me.
He wasn't about that, hiding your secrets.
That was what he was not about.
He told you, you tell everybody how you did it
and pass it on.
We don't want this information to be lost.
And we also, we're growing so fast right now in this.
It's gonna be like,
next year we're not gonna be making hash
the way we make hash right now.
Like I have so many ideas and amongst many other people
that if we all bounce ideas off each other
and we all help each other,
we're gonna grow in here much faster.
I would much more rather somebody feel like,
dude, I have this really cool idea.
I wanna call Bird and tell him
because he tells everybody his secrets.
I think you would buy much better
and benefit from this in the long run.
And I also feel like if you need to hide your information,
you're kind of like a one hit wonder
is what you feel like then.
I don't feel like I'm gonna stop learning and getting better.
And I don't feel like,
that it's gonna limit me if I told somebody how to do it.
And this is also such a fine art.
It's like making a steak.
That we all will make it differently.
And you go to a really high end restaurant
and it's gonna be totally different.
Or any food, you make any high end food,
you give the same basic ingredients to somebody
and they're gonna be totally different.
You make this with just salt, pepper
and a certain other ingredient
and everyone's is gonna taste different.
It's really more of an art, like painting and painting too.
And if we, I feel like it'll come around
and it has my mentor, Pesaro, Paul, he's taught me so much.
And that was one of his things too,
was passing knowledge on.
So I wanna pass on what I was kind of taught
was to not hide the information,
tell everybody all the cool tricks
so that we could all learn faster.
Cause then you can go study with it
and tell me, hey, you know what?
I found it's better if you do this.
And if we all collaborate together in that sense,
then we'll all be stronger than we're all fighting.
Is this who we're talking about?
Yeah, that's right there.
That's my mentor.
That's the man.
He was at the class too.
I was actually talking to him
about possibly collaborating together
and doing the class where he teaches some stuff
and then I teach other things.
So we kind of have both of us teaching at the same time
so we can pack a lot more information in.
There's a lot of love going on for your attitude of sharing.
Yeah, I was gonna say, I think everybody,
you're getting a lot of thumbs up.
Yeah.
That's awesome.
That you call it an art
because it's a lot of arts
where you can share the knowledge freely
and it's not the proprietary knowledge
that makes you successful.
If you have to hide the secrets,
then you're really not the greatest.
But the ability to lay it all out there
and still have a name for yourself
and still hold onto your integrity
and still make a mark in the marketplace,
that's the true artist.
That's the difference between an art
and just another business or a sham
or a lot of these other markets in the world
that we have to deal with just to survive.
So it's interesting that you call it an art
because that's really how artists work.
They'll tell you how to paint a painting
or they'll tell you how to craft a pot
or they'll tell you how to make your hash.
And it's really in the skill of the artist,
not the proprietary knowledge
that they would have kept from you anyway.
So I appreciate your outlook there.
Thanks, man.
Yeah, I really think it's the way to go.
It's good to have that feeling too,
to feel like that person, it's good to be that guy.
Can you guys both talk about your process?
Like, are you both working with a paddle?
Are you working with washers?
Can you talk about kind of the,
this, what makes you you?
Your idiosyncrasies?
I prefer a washer.
I was taught, the way I was taught for Frenchie
is how I do it.
I pretty much replicate exactly what he teaches.
I have very few steps that are different.
And I think a few of them are
because I'm making rosin eventually
and he wants to mostly just make a temple ball.
And drying times, we were different on for freeze dryers.
And so that's all just like a little,
a bit of an art form there, like we always talk about.
Everything is, I can tell you exactly how I do it
and then I've watched people do it
and they do it differently.
That's like building anything, you know,
a fence or anything, you know, it's just,
you have to learn how to work hash too.
Every strain's different from each grower.
So that's one benefit I have from growing.
My family's farm is always gonna be consistently
giving me white mango.
And then I know how to work with the white mango
and I know how gentle it is, how much I can wash it,
how much ice to put in,
how much material I can put in the machine.
But I use the five gallon machines,
just your basic wash machines that you could buy
for a hundred dollars on Amazon.
Yeah, no, I think I have a video of Frenchy,
like I filmed one of his classes in LA
and I uploaded some of it, but not all of it.
And yeah, we had like the super cheap,
like plastic washer that we were rocking.
Yep.
It was a little RV washer.
That's all, just a little basic wash.
Stuff like that though, it's really efficient,
believe it or not.
It'll cause the double vortex inside there to go on
and to where like one wave is like falling on the next one,
kind of like that I guess.
And it's very, like Frenchy likes to say,
you can have the material in the machine,
you don't use a bag the way we wash
and it'll be like flowing in a river.
And you won't be abrasive to it
to where you cause it to break
because that's when you cause contaminants.
So we find that that size machine is done by the shape.
It's kind of a D shape and it's not perfectly round.
And that's what helps create the double vortex
and it's water jets coming up from the bottom,
which has a disc that spins around disc that's on a timer
and the disc will spin this direction and then stop
and then alternate and spin the other direction.
And that machine is actually very efficient.
You just modify the outlet for the hose
because it comes with this like really little
perforated hose that contaminants get stuck in
and you just put a clear hose with an elbow on it
and a little either shut off valve or a cap on the end
and then that's about it.
And then the system, the way we do it,
the way that Frenchy teaches it is it drains right out
and down into a bucket like you seen
when you did the videoing for his class.
And you can look up plenty of his videos on it on YouTube.
And that's a very efficient system
so where you don't have to pull bags like you used to
and like lift them up.
They're not like heavy.
It's just kind of draining out.
You have a pump in a bin underneath you that is on a float.
So it just drains it easily.
What bags do you both like?
I mean, I run the bags that Frenchy recommended
at the time at least.
I don't know what he's using right now.
Like are those the bolt bags or?
Yeah, the full mesh Frenchy.
And what about you, Frank?
Yeah, I have experience with full mesh bags.
I don't like the ones that are different material
on the sides and stuff.
I've used the bolt bags.
I recommend basically if you have good material,
it's gonna make good hash.
I say clean your bags no matter what.
And then between the two of you,
kind of like what micron sizes are you targeting?
And then for different cultivars,
do you have different like bag preferences?
Yeah, I prefer to only use the three bags,
the 45, the 160 and then the 190.
Frank?
Yeah, so I mean, first of all,
we're working with cured material, so it's different.
And being that basically we wanna make
as many different products out of the material
that we possibly can and get as much back
to the farmer as possible for the material they grew.
We pull every bag, but we end up,
usually all of our products end up being a full spectrum
because we put the bags back together
and stuff for the most part
and to assemble what can make up the best product possible.
Usually the 45s and the 90s are awesome,
but once you get to the later pulls,
the 45 isn't as awesome.
So we stop putting the 45,
including that into the batch and stuff like that
to maintain color and integrity and stuff and flavor.
Which is something I've been working on too,
that to remove the particulates
that are in the later runs of your 45,
and it's something I'm working on getting out
and I'm designing the tip for it right now,
because then you can get the contaminants
to float on the foam when you're washing the hash
and the trichomes will wanna sink
and you can use the vacuum pump
and this tip that I'm designing
to remove the contaminants that'll float on top of the foam,
further refining the hash totally solventless
and being able to make that later run hash a viable product.
You're designing the tip for that process?
Yeah.
I'm picturing something like in the dentist chair,
but what does it look like?
It's really similar to something like that, I guess.
But right now it's just made out of 304 stainless steel
and actually I'm gonna be doing it on a 3D printer
to make it more of a manufacturable process
that I can get out to people.
And right now it's like a tube with a joint connection
that has 45 degree angled holes
that are backwards drilled so that as the vacuum comes in,
it won't spit it out of there.
And then I designed a spray bottle
and it'll also have a little connection on it
so you can flush out the contaminants,
I mean, not the contaminants,
because there's gonna be,
when you remove the contaminants,
you're gonna be removing some trichromes
that will be floating on top of the particulates.
They'll be kind of trapped there.
They would sink if they were in the water,
but you'll be removing some of those
and you'll wanna further refine that out later.
And so it'll have a further like jar system
that you'll be able to do
to actually get back the ones that were viable
and just further remove out the contaminants.
And it's gonna be pretty cool.
I love that.
I love that you've even thought of the degree angle
of the holes to make that smooth and work.
Awesome.
Yeah.
I was wondering, you were talking about teaching before.
I was wondering if there was a process or a stage
that people have the most difficulty with
and why you think that is.
I think everybody puts too much ice in the machine.
They think they're gonna get it colder
than ice is gonna get it for some reason.
They think they're gonna get it like deeper
than the ice can get it.
And so they keep putting more ice in
and then more ice and more ice.
And then it becomes a way that contaminants are made
because you have a piece of material
and then two pieces of ice at each other.
And then they split that material
and the pieces will be the micron you're trying to catch.
Then, and then you'll get chlorophyll to leach in
from that exposed area from the leaf.
And it'll actually do the same thing to a tricone.
It'll like actually crush your tricones
because the ice will find tricones right in the middle
and actually bruise them or split them
or open them or crush them.
And so I would say the biggest thing is I did it too.
First class I took a Frenchies.
I went home, made a whole bunch of hats,
came back to his class again and was like,
dang it, I'm putting way too much ice in the machine still.
And then Frenchie yelled at me with his really cool accent
and told me that you're only gonna get it ice cold.
So if you hear ice-
With like his veins bulging out of his temples.
Yeah.
You're not going to get it colder than ice cold, Brett.
Do you understand?
He says.
If you hear ice in the machine, it's ice cold
because the ice didn't melt, he says.
You don't need more ice.
Everybody's always wanting to hear
this like cool grinding sound.
I was just gonna ask if there's like a particular ratio
that you favor of ice to water or how you measure that.
If you're good with ice and that's what you go by,
that makes sense.
Yeah, the way it's best way to say is by ear,
I would say because it's gonna totally vary
on the room temperature, how cold the water is you're using,
how much material you put in the machine
and how much water you put in the machine.
Those variables are gonna totally change
and a small amount of either one of those variable changing,
you're gonna have to just know how to constantly adjust
for that and not try to make a ratio
because like I tell people, this is not a cake you're baking.
You need to be able to just know how to fix every scenario,
not know what's the best.
You know what you're trying to achieve by your ear
and that's what I tell everybody.
You hear that sound?
That's the sound of perfect right there
where you're almost like no ice.
You almost don't hear any ice, but you hear,
you're definitely not at ice and that is ideal
because then it's still ice cold,
but you don't have a bunch of ice in there
to cause that problem
because the plant doesn't grow very much on it.
That's 45 micron to 159 or 45U to 159U.
There's not much it grows other than a tricone.
So if you get stuff in there, you as the processor
or the person washing it did that.
What, so,
cause you both stop at different points.
So you're pressing, what press do you use?
And kind of like what's like the plate size?
Like do you like a big plate, a tiny plate?
I use a Triminator triple stack press.
They have a patented tilt technology
where that press actually tilts
from being the plates in a totally flat to totally vertical.
And so as the rosin's coming out,
it's not only like coming off the plates
and getting heated as it sits on the plates,
it's actually being forced to just drip right out.
And so it's more efficient in that manner.
And mine has three plates, so I can do,
and they're fairly large plates.
Don't remember the exact dimensions offhand,
but they're fairly large plates.
And so you can put more than one,
if you needed to at a time,
or if you're dealing with something more delicate,
you can actually just put one
and be more precise and controlled.
So I use a hand pump and a BVA hand pump.
And it's also a 25 ton BVA hydraulic cylinder
that mine is.
We just had a Frank dab close up.
I've seen that.
I love that piece.
I know Frank loves those things.
Yeah, Frank, who makes that?
So most of the glass is Marne Faye.
She makes three hole glass pipes.
And then our buddy, Deer Glass, his name is Reed.
So he called his company Deer, his name backwards.
He made this pipe and then I realized
that water worked in it recently.
So I've been really enjoying it.
But yeah, it has three holes in the side of the chamber
instead of one at the bottom.
So you hit it with like a hash or a rosin and stuff.
And I use these dab wands, heat them up.
And then after 30 seconds, you can hit it.
It's perfect temperature.
And who makes the dab wands?
Marne Faye Glass, like two bucks a piece.
So I usually get a few of them.
So Brett, so hold on, I'm about to sneeze.
But so what's kind of, how do you dial in
like your temperature and your time?
So for pressing, you're just gonna wanna do a test press.
I'm always only doing live rosin.
I only do fresh rosin.
So I'm gonna be dealing with it a little bit differently
than you would if it was like a dry sift or a cured hash.
So you're gonna wanna put less amount in each bag.
You're gonna wanna press smaller amounts
and do more, just keep pressing it.
And you only press it once.
You don't press it and have like multiple presses.
You can get some food grade material
out of the other presses.
I'm a big fan myself of not using anything
other than the highest quality stuff,
even if you're gonna make food.
If you're gonna make food,
then you need to make it with really good bubble hash.
And it'll be way better, like way, way, way better.
And more medicine will be in there.
You've removed a lot of the medicine.
Now there still might be some left,
but you can kind of get it.
And people are deceiving amounts
of like qualities of edibles.
That's why you hear a lot of people saying
they don't like edibles because they're like,
you know, really good or really bad.
And it's hard to get good edibles.
So I feel like you get one press
and I do 170 degrees on all my material.
And really we're just going
for the best highest quality product
at that point when you're doing it too.
So just quickly, I wanna give you an opportunity
to address a comment by Kyle Loader,
who said, this dude is all talk.
Any hash maker knows all the respect goes to the farmer.
Do either of you disagree with that comment?
And by the way, is the farmer your wife
and your father-in-law?
Do you respect your wife and your father-in-law?
Yeah, of course.
Like obviously he doesn't know me.
I am the biggest advocate for the farmer.
I only do what I do the way I do it
because I have so much respect for the farmer.
I tell everybody that,
and I was taught to respect the farmer.
Frenchie always told me,
if you find someone that grows beautiful tricones,
marry his daughter.
That's pretty much what I did.
So I have tons of respect and love for my wife
and my father-in-law.
And that's why I preach to a full spectrum hash.
I think a full spectrum hash is gonna give more honor
to the farmer.
Like Frank posted in the magazine article,
it was like 200 times the farmer has it longer
than us, the hash maker.
We don't have this for very long at all.
So we really need to honor the farm
and a full spectrum is one of the ways to do it.
When I won the Emerald Cup,
what I said was, I didn't do this.
I just didn't mess it up.
That's what I said.
So I didn't make this tricone.
I just didn't mess it up when I cleaned it
and gathered it together and showed you guys it
and pressed it into something.
So that I totally give respect to the farmer.
Everybody has to.
Without them working their butts off,
cleaning tarps, pulling tarps or however you're doing it
and all the work they do, staying up all night,
making the clones, stressing on all the clones
and doing all the moms, just making them from seeds,
wherever you're doing it, it's a big stressful job.
That's why I know and I have more respect
to my wife comes home and talks to me about it every day
when she's off the farm.
We talk about what's going on.
And so I have a lot of respect and everybody has to.
Anybody that's doing it good,
making high quality product has respect for the farm.
Absolutely, absolutely.
Frenchy talks about it and that's where I first picked it up
and understood it.
The first hash company I worked for, Nasha even,
that was a very big aspect of what he did,
keeping it super minimal.
I didn't know you worked for him.
Yeah, I worked for Nasha in 2017
as he transitioned into the legal market and stuff.
It was my first stint with hash.
Had a really good time, honestly.
Got slapped around a bit and learned a thing or two.
But yeah, the grower and the hash maker
is actually something that I learned
because of a farm that I worked with through Nasha.
Like the main farm he worked with is Sunbolt Grown.
And I realized afterwards, like months later,
that she had said that.
Her name is Sunshine Johnson.
She's the farmer.
And so she talked about the relationship
between the grower and the hash maker.
There's only so much that the farmer can do,
especially in this market
where there's so much coming down on them
and stuff like that.
It's like they can't put so much time and effort
into the trim.
The trim is like the least of their concern.
And if somebody can do something good with it
and somebody can really emphasize their work
through that trim or through the bee buds
and stuff like that, even through the flower and stuff,
it's like that's obviously gonna be really good for them
instead of it being recycled or made into BHO
or something like that.
So that's like a big passion for us at Hella Dank
is trying to emphasize the farmer.
And when I write about it,
the first two articles I wrote about
in Weird World Magazine were the grower and the hash maker.
And then Bird to me, he's like that combined
because it's his family and he's doing that,
like emphasizing the work of his family and stuff.
So that's the most important thing to me.
I feel like that's why me and Bird vibe so intensely
and stuff and talk.
And like he had the idea to have the class and stuff.
I thought it was such a great idea.
Like let's figure out how to do it by any means necessary
because like people need this information.
Growers need this information.
People that are doing anything with cannabis
need to know how they can do it themselves and stuff.
So he has to grow what is the most important.
I always, my first thing I always wanna do
is go show my wife and show my father-in-law
whenever I make some new strain of theirs.
I'll always be like, oh, take this, show it to him.
Show it to my father-in-law
you know when you go to work tomorrow.
And he always likes it too.
You know what I mean?
He's always getting like, oh wow, that's really cool
because he could see the flavor profile came through
and how it came across as a concentrate
and show it to all his buddies and stuff
and be like, look what I grew, you know?
Does he like concentrate or is he like a flower guy?
He don't smoke them, but he gets to show it to his friends
and give it to his buddies to do and stuff like that.
So he loves it.
He's very proud of it too because it's his
and I try to do the best job I can to do it really clean
and really good job and showcase it.
And I think I do a pretty good job at it.
So he can be proud of it to show it to other people.
And I think that's really cool.
That's awesome.
That's cool that he's so, that,
I feel like showing it to his friends
is how you know that it's genuine.
Exactly, exactly.
That's what I actually would like,
oh, he was showing his buddies it
and he pulled it out of the refrigerator
and he was showing it to them.
And I was like, yeah, that's awesome.
And Fred, you look like you're
in a very cold room right now.
Yeah, it's like 46 degrees.
Not as cold as I wanted, but it's cold.
What's up everybody?
My name's Fred.
Deal Grows.
So Fred's down here in LA with me.
I felt like we're underrepresented.
And even up the numbers somehow.
So what, I just quickly wanna talk fires.
What's in Mendocino, Sonoma,
why we got Washington State,
what's going on?
Like this, every morning when I wake up in LA
and go outside, I can smell the smoke down here.
And then I think the winds change direction
and then I don't smell it for the afternoon.
But what's going on kind of in each of your counties?
Well, we had the oak fire was really close to us.
We had a mandatory evacuation
and it went away from us and the firefighters thanked them.
They worked really hard and got that under control.
And there's just, there's a bunch of like the complex fire,
the August complex fire is just really, really big up here.
And it's just making it really cloudy and smoky up here.
And did it affect the farm?
Your wife's farm?
Yeah, I would imagine it will.
I don't know if they get to see the,
you see the damage right away.
I don't know if they blow them off
with leaf blowers and stuff like that.
So they've had ash like on the plants and blowing it.
Yeah, okay.
Yeah, they have greenhouses for some of it.
So.
That was very Mr. Miyagi-ish.
Yeah, that was a mosquito.
Did you get it?
I did.
I did, I'm allergic to them too.
I'll spell up really big.
That's why I was like, oh damn it.
But yeah, I did, I got him.
Yeah, they have the greenhouses.
So then they're not dealing with it nearly as bad there
because it's more of a controlled environment.
But they do have an outdoor as well.
We'll see if it has some effects from it.
I've heard a lot of different, you know, bad things.
I've heard, you know, from the fire.
So I'm crossing my fingers,
hoping it doesn't affect them.
And what about Sonoma and Washington?
You're up in Washington State, right?
Yeah, we caught all your guys' smoke, basically.
Yeah.
But no fire.
Oh, plenty of fire.
There's, we had 330,000 acres burned 24 hours.
So there's quite a bit of fire up here too.
But just the way the winds are blowing,
they're blowing up the coast
and then they curled inland
right across the top of the country.
We've been smoked out for about a week.
Wow.
Yeah, I think this weekend we may do a couple,
or a fundraiser at least.
After the last one I had.
Tons of administrative chasing winners.
By the way, we don't see any of the people
who ghosted us in the chat, do we?
No.
Okay.
Just a couple of the big, numb schools.
Yeah, let me just,
while we have a chat room full of people,
let me see some of the people who ghosted us.
From the very first one, we had Soviet Smoker and,
who was the other guy?
It was Staten Island something and Soviet Smoker.
So anyway, Timmy Jarjura
and Midwest Outlaw 31.
I can't find them.
And Dimple Sanchez won the PAM BX.
And I've not heard from him.
And that was for Nick's.
And stuff like that sucks,
because it's basically like,
it's like Nick's Healthcare.
And someone just like ghosts us.
Oh, sorry.
So, all right.
Thelon Stoner, what's he?
All right.
So Dimple Sanchez, that was Family Tree PAM BX for 550.
Midwest Outlaw 31 was Bio Vortex Banana Dog for 600.
Timmy Jarjura was PAM Demick for 460.
So anyway, that was from last week's auctions.
These guys made an auction and then they're dipping?
So when people win,
I have no way that like,
they're donating directly to someone's PayPal
or Venmo or whatever.
So I just have to be like,
okay, the winner is this person.
That's why I'm like,
here's my email, get in touch with me
so we can follow up with you.
And then like those people ghosted us.
Like I haven't heard from them.
And so like one was for farmers who lost their farms.
One was for Nick who was in the hospital with no insurance.
And those are the people I'm blasting right now.
I'm publicly shaming them.
Well, they deserve it, man.
I agree.
But.
So.
Another fundraiser this weekend.
Did you want to talk about that, dude?
Well, I haven't even planned.
It's like all this shit comes together at the last minute.
So I'm gonna talk to Jesse Dodd and Josh Rutherford
tomorrow and we'll see.
And then we may do one for Christian
who we talked to a couple days ago
because he has a, basically he got arrested
and he has to go to court for growing cannabis
in El Dorado County and has legal fees
that he needs to pay for.
So there's a whole lot of shit going on.
And so I see Andre Foster who won.
That was Andre, what did you win?
Hold on.
You won the Bodie seeds.
Yeah, and those are in the mail.
So they should arrive any day, probably tomorrow.
But anyway, sorry, I have like 80 windows open right now.
I got a question for Brett.
I don't know if you guys talked about it or not,
but that class that he had, I want to know how that went.
That went really well.
Sick.
Yeah, it was a really good class.
A lot of people actually had a couple of special guests
show up, my mentor, Pesbro, the Dake Duchess
showed up for both days and was a really good guest.
I sent her a message on Instagram to jump on.
I don't have her cell, but if either of you have her cell,
tell her to check her Instagram DMs.
Yeah, it would be nice to have her on.
She's really knowledgeable.
Fred, you were talking rosin chips in the chat before.
Oh yeah, someone asked in the chat,
like I wonder, they asked,
what do we do with our rosin chips?
Rosin chips, meaning the bags after we press the hash,
like the pucks that we have left over.
Someone was asking what we do with them.
They make RSO or edibles.
And I just, I met a dude, what's his name?
Sexy Eds, he's down here in SoCal.
He used to be really big in the traditional market
with edibles, but I had the opportunity
to work with him one time and I gave him some rosin chips
and he made a tincture that was pretty cool.
And he made a lot, just a little bit of rosin chips.
So that's what I do with sometimes if I get a chance.
I just save them up in a bag, keep them in the freezer
and then pass them to someone like that
that could make something useful out of it.
Yeah, at the class we had a guy
that brought up a really good way.
As he had a bunch of knee surgeries,
he had like 12 knee surgeries
and he said he takes the rosin chips
and puts them in alcohol, like 100 proof alcohol.
And he lets it just soak and dissolve in there.
And he'll just pour a little bit out on his knee, he said,
and it'll soak in and he can immediately feel the relief.
Trip out on that.
Yeah, he was saying that that works really well.
I was gonna try that,
because I've either got a surgery in metal in me too.
And it'd be nice to have something you could put on.
I wonder how it would work for me.
Everything works different for everybody,
but he said it worked really well for him.
And he just poured it on and it was pretty effective.
Cause it wouldn't be like something
that would last a high shelf life.
That's something I've found too,
whenever I try and make anything,
like with edibles just don't have very long shelf life.
When you make anything out of it,
it's not gonna last that long.
But if you just throw them in alcohol, it would last forever.
Yeah, he gave me my half, we did a split.
And I had that jar for such a long time.
He put like 12 capsules
and then I had a jar of extra stuff.
And I recently just gave it to a dude
that's been battling getting off of heroin.
He's been battling that and taking some nasty ass medicine.
And I'm like, here, take some of this.
Maybe this will help.
Oh my God, good call.
That's a horrifying situation for a guy.
That whole, yeah, he's a good guy, but he's trying hard.
But that pouring on the wound for surgery
and helping, that's really interesting.
I got more rosen chips and I have a buddy,
full-time grower just blew out his foot,
almost lost his foot.
So I might do that too,
cause I could do something like that.
That sounds pretty simple.
Yeah, exactly.
That's awesome.
Cause it would just dissolve it.
You wouldn't even have to do anything.
You say, just throw the whole bag in there and everything.
Sick, yeah, set it and forget it.
I just did a couple extra,
I had a TurboSource,
which is like a home alcohol extraction unit,
sitting on the shelf for like the past two years.
And I finally used it this week
and made a bunch of alcohol extraction.
But it's funny,
cause you guys are talking about aches and pains
and not to be a dick, but I don't have any.
And so whenever people talk about
putting rubs on their shoulders and necks,
because people give me salves and creams all the time.
And I'm always like, I have nothing to do with them
cause I don't have any aches and pains.
You're like, I keep it loose.
I don't need those.
It's like, I want aches and pains
so I can be like, oh my God, that's so relieving.
You gotta give it to a hardcore gamer or something.
Yes, some carpool tunnel.
You healthy bastards.
Right, it's Jack though.
It's Jack time.
Yeah, so any,
I'm looking at the, I'm tuning into the YouTube chat.
Any questions from the chat world?
So actually talk about Frank.
So you guys work predominantly,
so Brett works with Fresh Frozen
and you guys predominantly work with Cured Flour.
So yeah, we are gearing towards
working with Fresh Frozen as well,
but it is a very low yielding product.
And we, our first business model and stuff like that
was to try to support the farmers
and help them to utilize stuff
that is otherwise being considered like a cheap thing.
I mean, it is highly sought after in the market,
but people aren't going for outdoor trim
and then giving it the value that it deserves
and stuff like that when you can utilize it properly
and process it only using water, unadulterated.
It can make awesome hash as well.
So people, a lot of people just kind of hear things
in the industry and stuff like that.
Only Fresh Frozen is gonna make good hash
and stuff like that.
It's not entirely valid.
It can make very awesome hash.
With Cured Flour, it just has to be gold in, gold out.
Yeah, for sure.
It has to be good material.
That's it.
Healthy plants and good genetics.
Good soil really is the thing.
We go for all living soil, number one.
High five.
I'm glad you said that, man.
A lot of people hate on trim.
It's like, yo, it's the same plant.
Fresh Frozen has that trim in there too.
But I mainly work with trim, fully dry cured.
So yeah, I like that.
Awesome, dude.
Yeah, I mean, a big thing for us,
when we first started, what I set out to do,
I bought a bunch of video equipment, stuff like that.
It's kind of consumer education to help farmers
because I feel like one reason that people don't know
the quality that trim has to offer
is basically just like handling processes
and stuff like that.
A lot of people, what we've seen is that a lot of the time
farms will just trim and have everybody trim
into one big bag or one big bin or something like that
and letting it oxidize the entire time.
And it's just like anything else,
especially once it's cut off the vine,
as soon as it's exposed to oxygen,
it's everything, it's dissipating, it's going into the air.
So it's just like your food.
So as soon as it's cut up, it's losing everything,
that its potency and stuff like that.
So the trim is no different than that.
And basically we found that basically
as soon as you cut it,
if you get it into a bag and close it up,
each time have them close it up
and then you get it into, at the end of the day,
a vacuum seal bag,
don't vacuum seal it to where you're squeezing it too tight.
But we tell everybody just vacuum seal it
and get it closed off so it's not going,
keep it in a cool area.
We have one farm that we work with,
they had specifically,
everybody has those bins with the yellow tops on them,
the black bins and the black plastic on the bottom.
These, they're clear.
We found clear ones at least.
They had different ones, I'm sorry.
I just can't remember what the ones that they have,
but it had a lining on the inside of it.
And I can send pictures of these, the ones that we found,
but they have like a foam lining on the inside of it.
So it actually stays airtight when you close the locks
on the side of it, they're usually useless.
It actually keeps it all airtight.
So like it kind of, you can do that or vacuum seal bags,
as far as we've found.
And basically that's, I can say,
keeps the material for good for like six months even,
which I would otherwise say you got to,
also a big thing is use your trim.
If it's very, very good, use it immediately.
Same with buds or small buds or nugs,
just you're not gonna want that to sit around
and expect it to still be a high quality product
when you're gonna wash it and stuff,
you don't wanna wash it soon or otherwise keep it
at least in a cool area.
And like I said, vacuum sealer in like boats
that are gonna keep air sealed.
So oxidation is not your friend.
Absolutely, I mean, Brett will tell you the same thing.
As soon as it's into the hash or rosin form,
big thing that you're fighting,
especially selling it in sand form.
If you have any high quality hash at all,
if it's in sand form, oxygen is your worst enemy.
It's going to be breaking it down at all levels.
Those trichomes, he had taught me this,
basically have way more surface area.
That's why it's such a hard thing to get to the shell,
to the consumer and then they have to get into the fridge
and they have to keep it in a fridge the whole time
before it gets to the consumer, blah, blah, blah.
There was a question in chat about how to dry the hash out
without a freeze dryer.
Do you guys have any tips for that?
No clue, no idea.
No?
No clue at all.
Okay, so I mean, there's a bunch of different
old school ways, like they say a pizza box
and stuff like that.
Yeah, okay, I thought you were like.
Yeah, I know that.
Pizza boxes, that's a good start.
Pizza boxes, parchment paper.
Microplane.
Microplane.
That's a bitch in my opinion.
That's the best way to do it
if you don't have a freeze dryer.
And you mean just a microplane
to get it all thinly spread out, right?
And then you air dry it.
Yeah, that's the only way, otherwise it'll be really dark.
Otherwise, there's just one way I've found to dry hash
in the atmosphere without a freeze dryer
is you have to freeze it into a solid puck,
like Frenchy teaches, and then you have to do it
in a really cold room.
You can microplane it out,
and with a certain microplane,
or one made by microplane was my favorite one.
It was like a really fine one that was like round
with one little too thin ink in the middle that came down.
And it works really well for that,
for getting it a thin, thin, thin layer.
You have to put parchment paper down on your pizza box,
otherwise your hash will stick to your pizza box.
Yeah, I'll be a devil's advocate, Bird.
I don't have a cold room either.
What do I do?
No, I'm saying like, if I'm asking you like-
So you try to find the cold, dark,
the coldest, darkest space you could find,
like under your house or something, maybe.
You're gonna send people under their house
to be microplaning hash.
Get it done, right?
I mean, you might be, what you could do,
you could just keep putting that puck back in the freezer,
just like barely microplane some,
shove it back in the freezer, grab another one out.
What I would do a lot of times is I'd have like three
or four of them, and I'd grab one, microplane it,
and that box would be in the freezer right away.
I'd microplane it as soon as that one started getting sticky.
And then one of the techniques I did
when I was microplaning is the part you're touching
with your finger while you're microplaning,
you have to barely delicately touch that.
And then you also have to rotate it
and microplane those parts off that you were just touching.
Do it like in an even fashion.
So you're constantly microplaning away
where you had just touched,
and you can get to hold it a lot better, a lot longer,
and get an actual good amount microplaned out.
And then go put it back, let it freeze for a second.
Now you'll have a nice good shape out of it, like a square.
And then you'll put it in the freezer, grab the next one,
and do the same process.
And you can get a good amount done that way
if your room's not that cold.
Because I didn't have a cold room at first either.
I just had a room that was, you know, a dark room,
the house, the darkest, coldest room in the house
that I could use is what I did.
And also the time of day you're doing it.
I didn't have a cold room all the time either.
So 2 a.m. I'm hashing at night, you know, it's cold outside.
That's really good tips with microplaning, man.
I never microplaned, but you're basically,
it's a race against melting the hash.
So having several little donuts, like, who's that?
Simpson, Simply Adam, he does a lot of microplaning.
I had a lot of success with what you're saying
is after the hash comes out,
put it as thinly as I can on the parchment.
And I use my cold spoon to kind of spread it out
as thinly as I can in the pizza box.
And then I put it in the fridge.
And then one run I put in the freezer.
I noticed a difference in the hash would kind of dry up
over time a little bit.
I could scrape off the dry parts
off the top of that little patty I created.
And then over time, going back and forth,
fridge to freezer and kind of checking on it,
breaking it up more and more, the hash will slowly dry.
You have to just spread it out thinly.
And I did that for the longest time.
I got lucky and found this beer fridge.
I'm telling you, man, this beer fridge is gold.
Golden right here.
I put this bad boy in there.
Is that a Harvest Right beer fridge?
That's a Harvest Right beer fridge.
Yeah, well, I set this bad boy in there
and it was reading, what was it?
19 degrees and 10% humidity.
That environment is pretty good for drying hash.
And you don't need a freeze dryer
if you could get ahold of a beer froster.
If you microplane, if you do the parchment, pizza boxes.
Yeah.
I mean, freeze dryers have gotten pretty cheap.
You can get one for $2,000 now though.
So I mean, that fridge right there
probably costs more than that.
It's about like 800 to a thousand bucks.
It costs me 150.
Yeah, I used to do HVAC.
So I knew a lot of guys in refrigeration and I got lucky.
It was all meant to be.
It wasn't forced.
It just happened.
Another trick you can do is hit up like Harvest Right
and ask for their like dents and blemished models.
They'll have them where you can get their like,
they have sometimes, I got,
I tried to get one of those when I needed one
and there wasn't any.
It's like getting the bruised fruit and vegetables
at the grocery store.
I beg daddy to dent you the cans, you know?
Hey, who cares if your Harvest Right has a dent
in the side of that stainless steel thing?
I would give no shits.
I'll put a big old sticker on it.
I'll kick the shit out of there and save some money
as long as it works.
It's cheaper?
Shit, that little part don't matter at all.
I was like, please give me one that's dented
and scratched.
I think a lot of people are going to like
those microplane tips.
They're going to use that for sure.
That's good stuff.
And so the reason you're also using the pizza box as well
to get back to that a little bit is,
so it's an environment that is being used.
The pizza box will work as a desiccant
because the pizza box is going to soak the moisture out,
kind of wick a little bit out.
It'll be like a desiccant kind of.
And then it's also keeping any light out as well.
Because you don't want light hitting your hash.
So, and it also gives you a way to stack them
on top of each other and have a whole bunch
just in one little area.
You can put 20 boxes on top of each other
on one little shelf and you have tons of hash,
you know, that you have drying in a decently cool dark area.
And it's just really efficient
because they're very cheap for pizza boxes
and a microplaner doesn't cost very much.
And, you know, so it really isn't very much
for a set of bags for real all start to finish.
You wouldn't be looking at very much money
to get to yourself.
You'll make some hash that you can, you know, start.
The hardest part will be probably finding the material
will be your hardest part.
You could get everything else and start doing it.
And I suggest people start doing that.
I get hit up on DMs all the time.
Like, how can I do this?
I'm very passionate.
It's just, just start wherever you can.
When I first started, I first started
because I was smoking a nug an eighth
and there was a seed in there.
I was like, you know what?
Let's get back to growing.
So I planted that seed and that's how I started.
You know, I ran out of space to grow
and then I found the hash making.
So anyone out there wants to start, just start
do whatever you can and it's gonna start building up.
It's gonna be like a domino effect.
You start growing, you start doing whatever you can to do.
You'll get there for sure.
Exactly.
That's facts right there.
And Frank, what are you dabbing right now?
That was Bird Rossin.
That was the Motorhead.
Motorhead.
I just love the different strains
and the different regions.
All the different hash makers, they had different styles.
They had different strains.
I don't really see many that are the same kind of.
It's pretty trippy.
Yes, that is an in focus.
There we go.
He has mastered the focus.
Clean, super clean.
I can smell it, super dank.
Oh my God.
That tone.
It's that off putting.
Full spectrum too.
Woo, that's where it's at.
As far as the bags you were asking earlier,
that's all of them, you know, 45 through 160.
Is that a fresh frozen or is that?
I mean, that's Bird's, it's fresh frozen.
Yeah, if it's from me, it's fresh frozen.
I also like the,
I only do fresh frozen.
Oh, high five.
And I heard Frank say that.
I was gonna say, I heard Frank say that the yield is less.
What's up with that?
Quite a bit.
Interesting, that makes sense, man.
5%, 5% of we're stuck.
That makes me feel better.
What, so Frank, with dried and cured, what's your yield?
If his is 5% fresh frozen.
So I actually don't, I'm not a hundred percent familiar,
but what I do know recently is that my boss was telling me
that basically most of the time we were looking for pounds
that farms that are material that yielded
within like 40 grams per pound area or more.
And then we were, one of the biodynamic farms we work with
yielded like 80 grams per pound.
So I don't know what the percentage.
That'd be 10 to 20.
I'm the half. 10 to 20%.
Yeah, cool, cool.
10 to 20%.
Yeah, 40 grams is about.
And which farm is that all star farm?
44 grams, 44 grams would be 10%.
Right.
48.
Yeah, that sounds right.
Cause in my experience, I just do mostly trim, all dried.
I don't have a choice of how it's grown, nothing like that.
I do what I get, don't have a fit kind of thing.
But if it's quality, you can pull a solid quality ounce
out of a pound and then you'll have extra like mixed micron
depending on how you're washing.
I kind of pull the 90 only.
Yeah, so let me see.
So I'm getting like, yeah, well out of every pound
I would be lucky to get 20, 20 grams, yeah.
Easy, but the quality is just better to.
To make up for that loss, I guess.
Well, in my mind, I'm very fortunate, but in my mind
the reason I do it is because you're just have much higher
terpene profile available to you to use.
When you smell a wet nug, there's more terpenes
than there are when you smell a dried nug.
They just vaporize off into the atmosphere as they dry.
And those ones you could still capture.
You can make the hash smell just like you did
when it was wet.
When you get dried material, you can only make the hash smell
like the dried material smell that you made the hash from.
Only thing you can ever make is the hash
from what you got given to you.
So someone gave you fresh nugs, then you smelled it
then you can make your hash smell like that
and have that profile.
But if you dry it, it's gonna smell.
Not to say it's bad at any means, but I'm just saying
they're a different profile available.
If you tested the terpenes on a fresh nug.
Yeah, no, absolutely.
With the terpenes on the dried nug,
it wouldn't be the same.
So I wanna work with something that's gonna have
the highest amount of terpene profile for me to work with
and capture.
And it's also a nice way to take product, freeze it
and then you can work with it anytime.
And then it's always gonna be at its best.
With dry material, it's like a peak time
like Frank was saying too.
You gotta wash that stuff right away.
And it has to be stored perfect the whole time.
Every step along the process will degrade that
dried material.
And if you freeze it right away,
you eliminate all those issues in the equation.
And that's one of the other reasons
I really like it as well.
High five, what a great explanation, man.
You kind of second something that I heard already before.
Same thing, like when it's a fresh nug,
you can make it smell just like that.
When it's dry, you're gonna get to smell like a dried nug.
So that makes sense, man.
So I'm very interested to explore
because I've heard Bird himself say in my experience
as well, like certain strains just don't wash,
and I'm sure that it's familiar
or the same thing with fresh frozen.
And I think that there is something
with drying and stabilizing the trichome,
certain strains being different than others,
there's gonna be ones, the gassy,
like he's describing, in drying, it transforms them.
Cause we've experienced some strains,
a lot on the gassy spectrum that just have transformed
and become something new by the time
they've made it to the rosin.
And I feel like the curing process, even aging the hash,
like with Nasha, for example,
they actually age the hash before they release it
for like three, I feel like six months
or something like that, three to six months.
I feel like he does a 90 day cure,
but not between that and six months.
But it's like that, there's something that happens there.
All the ancient traditions,
they know that something is going on in that process.
Frenchy talks about his hash, the actual pressed hash,
and something happening within the resin
and stuff like that, and it transforming.
And then like the aged hash being sought after.
And overseas, they had 12 year aged hash
and stuff like that.
And once it hit mass consciousness in Europe
and stuff like that, this aged hash was like
more spiritual and psychoactive and more intense
and stuff like that.
They started buying it.
All the European countries started going after it.
And it was like highly sought after and all that,
like I was saying.
And then it depleted the amount they had stored up
and they were actually never able to store up
to where they had 12 year old hash
because everyone was buying that year's hash every year.
And it's this crazy story that Frenchy tells
is really bad-ass, but I feel like there is something
that we don't know yet because we're just entering
this realm of like the testing and all that stuff
that we're gonna figure out all this crazy shit.
And some strains will be really fucking cool to age.
Some strains will be really cool to,
or preferred to be cured and then have the trichome
stabilize and stuff like that.
I don't know, but that's my idea maybe.
I would guess that that has something to do
with the overall terpene profile and that the strains
that are more monoterpene based,
so your citruses, your really bright stuff,
isn't gonna have a very strong aroma once it's aged.
So that's probably gonna be better off processed fresh
where the more sesquiterpene, diterpene, triterpene
strains, they're gonna get more complex with time.
And those are probably more inclined to be cured,
processed or aged as hash.
I'm kind of curious what the difference would be
between working with a cured flower
as opposed to aging the hash,
like pre-cure and post-cure, what's the difference?
Very interesting.
I feel like the trichome itself is a little different
on the aged hash versus the fresh hash,
like the fresh frozen.
The trichomes is a little bit more delicate and fresh,
I feel like, than when you age the hash.
We did my class, we did a fresh frozen temple ball
and not too many people are doing those.
You don't see many people turning fresh frozen
into a temple ball, but I was wondering
how it would turn out as well,
cause I normally don't do like my highest quality stuff.
Like we did the 90U even on that temple ball
and it was ridiculous.
That thing turned out so good.
That was what he was showing you
in the beginning of this video.
He was showing you that already, that in the jar.
Frank, you could show us that again as a reminder,
but all right, wait, hold on.
And Frank, while you're our hand model
and we wait for it to get in focus
with dramatic music playing in the background,
are you guys, Frank, this is for you,
are you guys playing?
There we go, it's in focus.
Look at that money shot.
Are you guys like long curing any hash
and have you waited like five?
I have something that's two years old right now.
Okay.
So are you smoking it and you're like,
are you like, it's better than when it was one years old
and I can't wait till it's five years old or?
So, I mean, the way Frenchie described it
was that that 12 year old hash was saying
he never had experienced anything like,
and I wish I could say that I've experienced anything
even close to something like that, but he also described it.
You've also never heard him say again
that he's since that time cured hash for 12 years himself
and like smoked that?
No, I mean, he, you know.
He said he doesn't cure any no more.
Okay, yeah, no, I might be wrong on.
Last time I was with him, he said he had none.
He said, because everybody buys it all
and cures it themself now, it's a lot cheaper.
So when I talked to him, I remember it was that
last year's what's called Emerald Cup.
I had bought one like right before that
and he said, oh, one of those is two years old.
I don't remember which one,
but he didn't mark it that it was or something.
But I was all excited that I bought a few of them
at the shop, so I asked him about them.
It was like a Swami one and stuff.
So, you know, a couple of them,
but I mean, that was in 2019, so.
Yeah, I guess the last time I talked to him about it
was I think 2018.
But he's not gonna have very much old hash though,
because like, yeah, he's got like a two year hash
and that was about it, you know?
And so everybody just buys it up nowadays,
like you were saying, and it just tends to be,
like I actually had a bunch that was a few years old,
but then once people started finding out,
they just, now I don't.
I'm just curious, in other botanical industries,
you're required to hold back a sample
for like contamination testing down the road
if somebody was to get sick
or something mishap was to happen.
Are you guys required legally to hold back a sample
of every run or every product that you put out?
No, that's super interesting.
I've never heard of that, actually.
That's cool, and I'm happy that we do.
So the answer is no, they do not.
They do not, because he's like,
what are you talking about?
Yeah, I wish I did.
Sounds like another thing
that I either would have forgotten about
or another very important aspect of the legal thing
we would be constantly reminded to do.
Tomorrow morning, are you gonna run to Igor
and be like, dude, did you know that we may be required
to hold back a sample from every batch we produce?
Specifically, remember, it's the botanical industry.
I don't see why they'd have to do that
when they already have to have everything tested
anyway prior, beforehand, I mean.
It wouldn't really change it.
If there was some issue, it would have been gotten in
later on because it was already tested.
They already do batch tests on everything.
Yeah, that's true.
There is pretesting for everything
before it goes on the market.
It would just get held back.
They just wouldn't actually be able to,
they wouldn't need one on hand.
They already have the results.
They could look at the results on hand.
Right, there is for other botanical industries as well.
That's why I was curious,
because a lot of this, there's a lot of overlap
between traditional herb companies
and the new cannabis market.
I just wondered.
I'd never heard anybody talk about it before,
so I thought I'd ask.
No, that's an awesome question.
I'm sure that they're waiting.
I'm sure they're waiting with teeth ready to go
for them to be able to implement that in the cannabis world.
Yeah, it's a FDA thing.
It'll be the FDA that asks.
Oh, I see.
Yeah, I'm sure they're gonna add it,
because they love to, like you said,
they love to add everything.
I'm sure they're just waiting on it.
It's probably already wrote up
for everybody to have to do it.
So, by the way, do you wanna give us
our botanical of the day?
Me?
Can we start a botanical of the day segment right now,
where you just talk about your favorite botanical
for two minutes?
A botanical interlude to the conversation.
So you guys were talking about pain earlier,
and it's actually one of the more interesting
sets of issues that I find to conquer botanically.
And I think I remember somebody mentioned
in neck and shoulder pain,
and my particular go-to's for neck and shoulder pain are,
I'm blanking on the common names right now,
Stachys officinalis, which is,
I'm blanking hard.
Frank, help him out.
Thought I could say it out loud.
Frank's like, what?
So there's wood betony, and then there's,
oh, it's in the mint family.
I have it outside.
Let me look it up real fast.
Or you could bring in the sample from outside.
I'm not going outside in this one.
What's the weather like in Washington right now?
It's like 68 and-
And about 90-
Comfortable in LA.
humidity.
Oh, you guys have tons of humidity right now?
It's horrible right now.
Oh yeah, LA never gets humid.
LA is pretty perfect every day of the year.
What the hell's the name of that herb?
That's going to bother me now.
Stachys officinalis is wood betony,
and then there's scutellaria latera.
Should we go to the chat for some help?
It's scutellaria.
Someone give him the English name for that.
I got it right here.
And Frank, what brand of goggles are we modeling right now?
Skullcat.
Those are the original Gucci ski models
from a famous female skier,
ski models from a famous female snowboarder off of eBay.
So thank you.
I had to get them in the beginning of the coronavirus
because of the whole thing with the mask
and stuff like that.
It's like, if you read about it and stuff, it's smaller.
We're familiar with microns on this show.
And so it's like the coronavirus is smaller
than the mask, they say, and stuff like that.
So the whole thing with the,
there was a doctor in the first case who had said,
like three months into the situation,
he said he got it through the eyes
because he was wearing a mask,
but his eyes were open and stuff like that.
So I immediately bought them as like a part of the show.
I do a podcast and stuff like that.
And then I said, I'd wear them
until the coronavirus thing went away.
And it's been this ongoing thing.
And it hasn't gone away yet.
Yeah, rock and roll.
And it's still here.
For another year.
Yeah, now I have my five-year-old daughter.
I'm realizing that like,
she's not gonna be in a school for like another year.
And that's kind of fucked up to think about.
So yeah, it was Skullcat.
I don't remember.
So I do a tincture that's 50% wood betonine, 50% Skullcat.
Believe it's 40% alcohol.
And then I've been going through neck and back pain
most of the summer.
And I started taking that tincture sublingually,
probably three to five drops under the tongue
for 15 seconds.
And within five minutes,
it'll relieve any tension in your neck and shoulders.
That's awesome.
It's pretty fascinating medicine, yeah.
That's amazing that it works so quickly.
I guess it absorbs very fast that way.
What was the colloquial name again?
There's wood betonine and Skullcat.
So it's Stachys officinalis
and scutellaria laterifolia, is the Latin name.
Let's look up Skullcat.
It's just a 50-50 mix.
But yeah, it was pretty fast.
I was in some pretty intense pain
where I had numbing, tingling going through my trigeminal.
Just quickly, did you say scutellaria lateriflora?
Yeah.
Yes.
That is the more complex name.
That's, yeah, that's Skullcat.
Hang on, I can go this way.
Look at that.
So it was a tincture of this.
Yeah.
Yeah, tincture of those 50% of each herb.
And you could use it for-
So you have this growing outside right now?
Yeah, yeah.
It's a mint family.
So I keep it in a pot so it doesn't go crazy.
Yeah, no, I keep my, yeah, my mint is on a tight leash.
I don't let it into the ground.
It's in a, it's in like a long,
like sort of pot, but just like long and narrow.
Cause I don't want those roots getting out.
Yeah.
One way to tell mint family plants,
you can see in that picture, it has a square stem.
So when you rub it in between the ears,
it'll have four sides, it's square.
But most plants have a round stem.
So you can see on that bottom left that it's quite square.
Making Peter work for it tonight.
Yeah, every time I stop, you're like,
let's go back to the picture.
But yeah, you can see it there.
That's one of the giveaways for the mint family.
So it doesn't matter if it's spearmint, peppermint,
skullcap, lemon balm, catnip, even cordow,
they all have square stems.
That's good to know, I didn't know that.
My cat likes all kinds of things in the mint family,
not just catnip.
But if you have like mint gum in a handbag-
Is catnip in the mint family?
I didn't know catnip was in the mint family.
Yeah, that's pretty cool.
Nathetta Cataria is definitely in the mint family.
Yeah, when I had- It's awesome.
When I had, did you ever watch like the videos on YouTube
of cats around catnip where they're all like frothing
at the mouth and like, they're like 16 cats at this house
and they're all just like having
a total psychedelic experience?
I love doing edibles and giving my cat catnip
and thinking like, we're getting a stone together.
Just you and me on a six hour journey.
Hey guys, I gotta cheer up, I just wanna say bye.
Thank you, appreciate you all.
Fred, stay frosty.
Keep it hashy, guys.
All right, so Frank-
Nice to meet you, brother, fuck yeah.
Frank, what's your botanical of the day?
No, I'm joking, I'm not gonna put you on the spot.
Okay, I mean, I do actually probably have one.
I have a botanical every single day,
actually it's the same one.
My buddy makes, he has a botanical chocolate he makes.
It's E3 Live Blue Magic and chocolate.
So it's like blue chocolate, it's actually super badass.
If you don't know about E3 Live Blue Magic,
check that out, it's the most nutrient dense substance
you can buy ounce per ounce on the planet.
It's a blue spirulina,
but it contains a whole bunch of stuff.
So that is actually my favorite botanical every day.
But this dude has cool facts.
So I like the rainbow,
I like to learn new different stuff.
So Cascadian Grown,
where do you get all your botanical information
or is that your choice, your path in life and stuff?
Yeah, I just got out of school for two years of herbalism.
So I've kind of been grilled on both sides
and Peter just likes to make sure
he flips me over once in a while.
I'll often do.
Yes.
So I, yeah, let me look in the chat.
What's going on in the chat right now?
I'm looking at mugwort.
Mugwort's nice, that one goes good under your pillow.
Sometimes they'd even put up,
they'd make a pillow and stuff it with mugwort
and a couple other herbs that aren't coming to mind
right now, but they'd call it a dream pillow
and it would,
if you're sensitive to those sorts of things,
it would actually influence your dreams.
They say that some of those plants
can actually give you lucid dreaming
where you know that you're dreaming,
but you then can take control of your dream.
It's not something I'm very good at,
but I have a couple of friends I went to school with
that love to get into lucid dreaming.
So they often keep mugwort around.
Often I find that lucid dreaming, if it's,
if one can do it,
it's like the only way to stop recurring nightmares.
At least that's how it's been for me.
It's not that often, but definitely it's been like
strangely empowering to like dream a hammer
about whatever monster you're battling at night.
It's like a psychological conquering mechanism, yeah.
That's interesting.
Cause I, we talked about this before, right?
I think we did, or unless I talked about it
with someone totally differently or different,
but like I, cause I gave Gemma a ton of it.
Like I would give her baths of it.
And then I feel like it was you who is talking about it
about those like super lucid dreams.
And I was like, I wonder if my daughter
like goes to sleep at night and just like,
she wakes up in the morning, just like a deer in headlights.
Like just like something, some crazy shit happened
in my dreams last night.
They're very powerful and lucid.
I don't know this, this past, like quarantine lockdown,
I've had some crazy ass dreams
and I need all the help I can get.
I legit keep edibles on my bedside table
in case I wake up in a sweat.
And it's helpful.
The stress of it all,
it's affecting a lot of people right now, actually,
just the stress of this new unknown.
You don't know how long it's going to last.
You don't know if you got it.
You don't know who's got it.
You're worried about everybody and yourself.
So the stress of it all psychologically
will weigh you down into some wicked dreams.
Yeah, I'm looking,
I'm looking at a lot of people
who are like, I don't know,
I don't know what to do.
I don't know what to do.
Yeah, I'm looking in the chat.
So why don't we, you guys want to wrap it on that?
Or Frank, do you want to keep charging ahead?
I was just nodding my head, man, rock and roll.
However you want to do.
So what I'd love to do with each of you is,
like we talked about this before, Brett,
I want your wife and her dad on with you.
And then Frank, I want some of the farms
that you work with.
Cause like the farmer and the hash maker.
Yep, the grower and the hash maker.
That's what I call it, yeah.
Yeah, I'm sure I can get my wife to come on sometime.
It was just short notice and she had been working all day
and has to go to work really early.
You mean like, look, you can lie on the couch here.
She's been asleep.
And I'll just do a wide shot.
She's been asleep this whole time.
That's awesome.
And what time she wake up in the morning?
It was four o'clock.
Now, usually when I don't do stuff like this,
I'm in bed, I'm asleep by nine.
That's what she said too.
She was like, does he know what time we go to bed?
I know, I usually, yeah.
And then when I do this stuff,
I'm just like up for like four additional hours.
And we'd have to do it on like a day
where she doesn't have to work the next day.
Or we could, well, I was gonna like,
yeah, we'll figure it out.
And Frank, you need to pull some farms together.
Yeah, I have some people in mind.
Yep, absolutely.
Do you mind if I just plug my stream real fast?
Go for it.
My live stream, cool.
So I just started a live stream called Weed Live.
I wanna open a conversation.
It's an open discussion forum
for anybody that wants to ask questions
or anybody that wants to understand more about cannabis
from the people that are experiencing it
and living this life.
I find myself enveloped in this existence,
this agricultural-
You were also talking Stanley Kubrick yesterday.
So what was that conversation?
Oh yeah, Weed Live is cannabis, conspiracy and comedy.
It's all that intertwined at all times.
So I mean, we go off on tangents and stuff like that.
I have guests on to talk about weird stuff
because I get stoned and I have thoughts.
There's a website like Hydeeiz.
You know?
You know, and I want people to express themselves.
That's the idea.
I want people to be able to feel like, you know,
no one's gonna judge them.
And you have a question, may sound crazy as hell,
but that's the idea.
You know, we're all gonna address it, you know?
And I'm trying to learn with other people
and I don't have, I'm like completely unbiased as far as-
But I want the cliff notes
on the Stanley Kubrick conversation from yesterday.
Oh, well, it's like a two hour conversation.
You can just listen to it, my friend.
But yeah, we're on DLive.
We're streaming-
You're not gonna succinctly summarize it for me?
Man, it's, you know, I can have brother Darrell
join the show and he'll summarize it.
All right.
All right.
Dlive.tv slash Weed Live.
Check it out.
Come join the conversation.
Join the live chat and we would love to answer your questions
or, you know, participate in conversation.
Thank you so much for having Bert and myself.
Yeah, appreciate it.
Appreciate it.
All right, guys.
Awesome to meet you, Cascading Grown.
Awesome to meet you, Mia.
Awesome to see you again, Peter.
And on the YouTube, we're gonna kill it.
We'll see you possibly tomorrow, maybe the next day.
Have a good night.
