Awesome.
Hello everyone and welcome from the Emerald Cup 2021 Santa Rosa Sonoma County Fairgrounds.
We're super excited to be here.
I'm Josh Edward.
I'm Eric Augerson.
We're combining forces with the Future Cannabis Project, Royal Grown Radio, to bring you the
Emerald Cup live here today.
Talk about a lot of what's going on in the cannabis world, the cultivation world, and
how they're colliding to bring people new levels of terpenes, cannabinoids, preservation,
better plant health, all sorts of amazing things, better genetic protections, all sorts
of amazing things that we're going to cover with legacy farmers, fertilizers, inoculant
producers, all sorts of people throughout the entire weekend.
Thanks for joining us.
Thanks for joining us, BioAg team.
Yeah, appreciate it.
It's been fun so far.
Yeah.
It's been a good day.
So BioAg is responsible for a ton of really top-notch products that you've had as far
as the years.
So the top level of products and the expanding line of free to utilize products.
Tell us a little bit about what you guys are doing and what your experience at the
cup is like so far.
So far the cup's been real nice.
I walk around a little bit.
Everyone seems to be really nice.
There's some really interesting seed booths and cannabis producers here, some very high
quality cannabis.
I've been very surprised at the amount of quality that I've seen here.
So much beautiful stuff around.
Oh yeah.
It's just beautiful.
That's the beauty of this event.
I think it really does, it caters to that part of the cannabis world.
There's all the people that, that passion is different than what you're seeing in a
lot of commercial space.
And this is all about the quality, the craft, the culture.
This event brings the best out in the industry as a whole.
We've seen that a lot.
We're fans of outdoor cannabis in general because we're an organic, most of the stuff
we do is organic products and we believe in growing things outdoors.
So this is a way to show that outdoor cannabis is really good quality and people can still
grow outdoors and have high quality bud in medicine, I guess.
So when we drove down through Humboldt and through the whole Emerald Triangle area, we
stopped and we tried to stop and sample and we got all sorts of the temple balls and the
and the local and we're like, Oh, where was this grown?
Or was it, it was really cool.
You guys have a tremendous amount of, just, just, cause we're from Oregon and, and it's
just a different system and a different scene.
It really is.
And Oregon has evolved so much in the last few years.
It's kind of the place to watch in a lot of ways to see a market mature, kind of over
swell, and then start to sort itself out to a more sustainable reality.
And, you know, we have such a wealth of deep sun grown knowledge and legacy farmers in
Humboldt County.
We're so blessed to be in that environment and be able to share it with people.
But you guys are doing so much more than just cannabis and you're doing such a wide variety
of research.
Tell us a little bit about some of the research you guys are doing with Humic and Fulvics
right now.
Yeah.
So, so Josh is kind of our cannabis guy.
So he focuses mostly on indoor hydroponic greenhouse and, you know, your commercial
marijuana production and hemp too.
But, but most of the company also deals with agriculture.
So I focus more on commercial organic agriculture.
And then we also have a controlled environmental ag division, which is more your, your vegetable,
your indoor vegetable production, your nursery, your cut flower production.
And so, so we were started by a guy, Bob Faust and he's Dr. Faust.
Dr. Faust.
He is kind of a pioneer in a, in humic acid research.
And humic acid is basically, it's the biologically active fraction of humic substances, which
make up a huge percentage of organic matter.
And so humic substances break down into humates, which is insoluble humic acid and fulvic acid.
Right.
And those are just two different sized molecules that are biologically active and they can
be used to complex fertilizer, feed your soils and just kind of make it so you're not as
reliant on chemical NPK and chemical fertilizer.
And, and that's the whole concept is by using biological amendments that are from the earth,
you don't have to use, you know, synthetic fertilizers to the same amount, or you can
use them to kind of mine your soils.
But then since then, bio-ag's expanded into all kinds of different bio-stimulants and
that's kind of a new category of products where it's kind of beyond organic and it's
more products that don't provide fertilizer, but they basically do everything that fertilizer
doesn't do.
So it's, it's products that you add them and they act like a fertilizer, but there's no
fertilizer in them.
So you see a benefit.
So you're either seeing an increase in the uptake or the, the increase in the utilization
of your nutrients, or you are stimulating the plant in other ways.
So like the most common one that everyone knows is kelp.
And that's like the most common bio-stimulant there is out there.
You use it and it's got potassium, but you're not using it in the amount that it's the
potassium that you're seeing.
You're seeing the, the plant, the plant hormones and the plant, you know, the stuff within,
yeah, and the oxygens and all that through the kelp coming out and stimulating growth.
And that's a way you can do it naturally without, and we can do it with chemicals.
So they use it in nature, they use chemicals.
Like with tissue culture, they use IAA and a lot of like products they'll use, which
is a synthetic oxin, but we just use it, like we use natural oxins and yeah, that's kind
of our, yeah.
It's sort of distilling a lot of the products of what is actually occurring in your natural
biodynamic regenerative agriculture soils.
And you're able to kind of utilize some of those products and put them in a bottle to
get them to home growers who may not have all of those processes going on.
And they also can then supplement and enhance the use of those processes in regenerative
agriculture.
That's absolutely phenomenal.
And we do, we, we try to make it so there's a lot of stuff that's based on, you know,
biodynamic practices or traditional organic practices, but we try to make it so it's more
interchangeable so you can use it in the hydro systems.
You can use it in your soil systems.
You can use it in commercial, you know, organic ag.
You can, so we like to, cause a lot of the problem is a lot of these practices, it's
hard to scale up.
And so to like scale up these, like these biodynamic practices and put them on like
large scale crops or do large scale sprays and you need to have filtration.
And it's just, so we like to provide products that can just kind of be plugged into the
anybody's system.
And that's kind of what we like to focus on is, and not providing your general fertilizers.
It's all just focusing on the additional stuff to help whatever fertilizer you run.
Processes and the uptake and the mobility.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
That's, that's a great, like that all, a lot of bio stimulants do that.
Yeah.
And like, I personally remember in my very earliest days of growing and like the late
nineties being enamored with the Earth Juice Catalyst product.
And it's a, it's a simple fermented product that does a really good job at catalyzing
organic nutrient uptake, but that science and technology and the awareness of what the
individual components are have come so, so far.
And that's where companies like yourself, especially doctors like yourself and Dr. Faust
have really elevated the game for our understanding.
We were talking with Brandon Rust, who we hope to get on here in a little while to talk
about some of these things.
He's a leading proponent of, you know, regenerative agriculture and how it relates to the cannabis
plant.
Yeah.
Josh, then your kind of role here is connecting the dots between this research, these techniques
and cannabis farmers, right?
Yeah.
You know, filling in the gaps on where, how, where, how, and why.
Yeah.
You know, you know, with the, it just depends on how you like to garden.
You know, we've got stuff that's going to help either your mineral farmer use less to
get more or help that organic gardener get everything they can out of that soil.
It just depends on how they want to garden.
Yeah.
It's, there's so many different ways and so many different levels of resources available
to the farmers that, you know, had growers can move from one type of grow to another
type of grow and to be able to utilize the same products and processes in completely
different grows, I think is super, duper important.
That's something that we see a lot of times out in the industry from the soil world is
you'll go to see one facility and it's one side of growers and then you go to another
facility and it's a new side of growers.
Totally.
So what's your experience there, Rick, seeing some of this stuff?
One of these, one of the things, you know, that I love about what you guys do is, is,
you know, for the cannabis industry and obviously when we're talking about food production and
becoming more sustainable, increasing production with less, you know, which is clearly a thing
that's just going to be more important as we go into the future, more and more people,
less resources, water issue, you know, plant uptake, the ingredients themselves.
It is kind of fascinating that, you know, when you go from grow to grow, you'll see,
you know, a lot of different, you know, ways of doing things and getting it done.
You know, humic acid for one, you know, I feel like it's always allowed growers to,
especially beginners, you know, to actually get in there.
It helps the plant do what it's going to do, you know, with just adding that one element,
you know, as far as like, you know, dialing everything in on such an acute level, something
like humic acid definitely, you know, broadens that horizon for what the plant's going to
be able to uptake for you.
You know, doing the catalyst, that was a huge thing in the nineties, getting turned on to
that product.
I felt like that instantly graduated me into what I, to being a decent grower, you know,
was like almost like a helping hand.
It was, you know.
Yeah.
As much as that's still an amazing product, I recommend it to anyone.
Like, you can start to get deeper into the nuance when you start looking at specific
products, engineered to extract each component, which is what you guys are doing.
So, you're doing all sorts of research too.
We were hanging out at the Far West and we were talking and you guys had been really
peaked on heat stress and some of the research you guys were doing on applying products to
prevent and protect the plants against heat stress.
Tell me a little more about that.
Yeah.
We've been experimenting and come out with a product called the Bio Super Sil and it's
an organic nanolized silica in a full-thick matrix.
So, it's an organic silica in full power.
And we did many different experiments with it.
We actually almost shelved the product because we weren't seeing an efficacy when we were
watering it onto the plants.
We found out after a couple of foliar sprays that that's how you apply it.
You saw an almost instant response spraying it on the plants where you saw almost none
while we were watering it on.
Turns out that it didn't have a pathway through the rouse zone, but it has a very fast pathway
through the leaf.
And we did some experiments in the...
I'm sorry, that was...
Yeah, the cucumbers.
Yeah, so we did cucumber experiments and we had...
We sprayed a bunch of cucumbers essentially with the Bio Super Sil and then we left untreated
controls and everything else was the same and we did it in a tent and then the tent
got really hot.
And essentially the cucumber plants just had a lot better vigor.
They didn't wilt as much.
They were a lot more successful.
The root systems were better.
Another thing we did, and that's not just with the Bio Super Sil, because that's a silica
with the fulvic matrix, but fulvic acid itself also has an abiotic kind of like stress reducer.
And so the humic and fulvic acid thing is confusing.
So it's state by state.
They're called different things because states recognize fulvic acid or not, but they all
recognize humic acid, but they don't all recognize fulvic acid.
So that's a thing.
But the thing is, is so humic acids in general have been shown to increase abiotic stress
resistance both in soils with salinity issues and then also with heat stress, drought tolerance,
things like that.
And so for the cannabis, especially this year, like being here where you guys had the really
the bad fires and the heat.
And we had we were from Oregon and we had a horrible drought this year too.
And and 115 degree heats and we're from the Willamette and we never ever see above 105
really.
And it was, you know, and plants got cherry crops got destroyed, you know, berry.
And it happened right when there was a berry.
That's when all the raspberries are getting harvested too is right then.
And it was like it destroyed crops.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
And then but cannabis farmers, too.
So everyone got a lot of people got scorched.
Yeah, yeah.
We actually we got some of the product in on one of those weekends just before it got
that hot.
And I took it out to my friends at 45th Parallel and I'm like, spray a couple plants for me.
Let's see if this works.
And some wires got crossed and they sprayed 100 plants, gave me a heart attack.
I hadn't used it yet.
So I'm like, OK, I'll call you on Monday.
We'll see what happens.
And everything that got sprayed grew incredibly.
Everything that didn't get sprayed wilted and did not.
You know, so they spray the entire three acres after that.
Wow.
And so with climate change accelerating and unpredictable weather patterns, heat waves
like have never been seen in Oregon.
Yeah.
Same in Northern California where we're actually in Eureka.
It's one of the only places on the planet that is actually getting colder through the
winter.
But we're having crazy unprecedented heat waves in the summer like these sort of technologies
and research are going to be massively important in protecting our food supply and protecting
also our cannabis supply and being able to cultivate in unpredictable conditions.
Absolutely.
So the concept of a lot of these things like with the humics and the fulvics and the mycorrhizal
fungi and anything that's like the bio stimulants, amino acids.
The goal is it's not always to increase your yield and your quality.
That is a goal, but it's also like from the ag standpoint, a lot of it is crop insurance.
So you're kind of protecting yourself.
If everything is perfect and you have a beautiful year and you hit your, your, um, the top of
your genetic potential, right?
And you grow these amazing dank buds and everything goes good.
That's great.
And maybe the amino acids and the humic acids won't really increase your yields or do anything
good for you.
But if you have a, you know, a drought tolerance or you have a heat wave or you have pest pressure,
you have, you know, all these issues are for us.
One of the big issues is rain too.
We have a lot of rain in the fall.
And so stuff like that.
And it just like, it's kind of just a way to keep your plants healthy and cover your
bets.
That kind of goes back with your saying with like it levels things out with the humics
especially, um, is because it does, it's a buffer.
And so it, it buffers your pHs, it buffers your nutrient uptake.
It's a soil buffer.
It's a good, it's hard to kind of helps you.
It helps you keep things level.
If you have a lot of, that's a big thing.
So if people are having burns and nutrient issues and a lot of that stuff, that's a good
way to kind of a first thing.
It's like, well get rid of this and then use a buffer and kind of it'll help level your
stuff out a little bit hopefully.
So here at the Emerald Cup, what are you walking around day one, a couple of hours in, obviously
it's off to a great start.
Things are popping.
What's the takeaway?
What do you guys, what have you seen so far as far as like, you know, the, what affects
you guys with bioag in general as a company?
What have you been seeing?
What are you taking away from this event so far?
I don't know.
So we, we're seeing a lot of friends.
So we've seen a lot of companies that are like collaborative, like, like guys like you
guys, just companies that work well with bioag products.
And we know a lot of just, you know, camaraderie.
And then I think from a personal standpoint, we were both sent here for fun.
Number one, we weren't here for business essentially originally.
We just kind of stumbled into it.
So we ended up, we're going to be speaking tomorrow, which is really cool.
We're doing a talk.
That's great.
Biologicals and regenerative cannabis.
What time is that?
Do you know?
That's going to be a 145.
And it'll be filmed.
And they said that there'll be a, some way to access the videos and stuff.
But so we, we ended up speaking, but originally we first signed up just the boss was like,
cause we're in Oregon, we're not too far.
And we were just like, well, I've never really been to a big cannabis competition before.
And I'm, we've only both been with bioag for a year.
And it was like, well, yeah, go.
That'll be a fun, a fun show to meet some people and see some, we have California district
distribution and meet some friends.
Maybe get a, you know, see if a booth would be a good thing for next year.
Yeah.
And see if we want to come back.
Next year we're going to have a booth.
Yeah.
We think we're probably going to have a booth.
It's definitely worthwhile.
It always has been.
We've been here for, for many, many years, basically since the early days of the Emerald
cup.
And it's, you know, on a fun level, of course, it's just an amazing place.
If you're a cannabis enthusiast, this is the place to be.
Right.
But I think, you know, we're surrounded by tons of people, lots of wealth of knowledge,
obviously folks like you guys here.
Are we going to be able to get a booth?
I mean, I think we're going to have a booth.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
That's a, that's been a very awesome thing.
There's a lot of cool stuff, especially coming out of like San Francisco with a, there's
a lot of tissue culture labs and a lot of genetic testing labs.
And we've been able to get a booth.
So we're going to be able to get one of those.
And we're going to be able to get a booth.
And we're going to be able to get a booth.
And, you know, we're going to be able to get, I don't know, a booth in a couple of
different locations.
And I think, you know, we're, we're going to be able to get a booth in a lot of places
as well.
But I think it's going to be an amazing experience.
And I think this is the place to be.
because we got people walking by that we're like,
just legends of the cannabis industry,
of the cultivation industry.
We just had Patrick, Soil King, roll by Seed to Soul.
Cool.
As well, so that's one of my biggest takeaways
from this sort of thing is seeing players like that
who are involved in the genetics,
accelerating the entire genetic game,
especially basing it on microclimates,
which is really so incredible
when you start looking at these microclimates
and different strains doing so well
in different environments,
but then it ties back to what we were talking about earlier
is are those same strains and genetics
going to perform in those same microclimates
as climate change starts to move,
and how do we utilize the plant's natural rhythms
to kind of protect ourselves from damaging
and losing the effectiveness of being able to utilize
those microclimates for things
they've traditionally been utilized for?
Like, I know another kind of aspect is
cross-pollination, hemp, things like that
are a big deal in Oregon.
Yeah.
So what are you guys looking at for ways
that people can protect themselves
or are going to be protecting genetics in the future
from all of these pressures, including pollinization?
Oh.
It's a huge question, so pick up where you want.
Oh, yeah, I got you.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, so that's a cool thing.
So with science and legalization mostly,
that's what will change it for marijuana, at least,
but for hemp, that's kind of starting to happen.
And we do have a hemp,
a really established hemp program in Oregon.
We have large-scale CBD producers.
We have, because I think they were one of the first states
to legalize hemp before,
and for cannabis and general marijuana.
But basically, so now that the universities
and private companies do a lot of research
and they are coming out with different solutions,
there's a lot more utilization of genetic testing
and PCR and DNA, you know, the stuff that's beyond us.
But on our side, even in the agricultural research side,
you're now able to do research on cannabis
and research on hemp and learn about seed testing
and seed quality and, you know, seed treatments.
And they are, and one thing I was telling you about earlier, Michael,
was this, they've done this thing and it's called triploid hemp seed.
And essentially what it is, is it's a hemp seed
that they've gone and they've made it into a sterile female hemp plant.
So it's kind of like you would with watermelon,
if you have a seedless watermelon,
the end result of this would be a flower
that can still get pollinated but won't set a seed.
So you can have, and they've done it with a couple different hemp strains,
but they haven't done it with marijuana yet.
I don't think, I haven't heard of it, but they might have.
It's possible.
But they've done it and they've published and they've come out
and I think Oregon CBD came out with one, a triploid hemp seed,
and they put it for market.
And what it does is it's, essentially you can grow a hemp crop
that doesn't get pollinated.
And for the ag guys, we deal with a lot of large scale hemp farmers
and companies that sell to ag and they deal with hemp too across the country.
The problem is they have to pay people
and they have to utilize their labor source.
And it's a huge problem having males and having plants that herm out
or plants that turn out to be male and aren't female in their crop.
And it seeds out their crop and they're trying to sell CBD
and they're trying to sell these biomass.
And so this is a way that they can then plant the whole field
and if there are males in the field or you have a neighbor who has a pollen
or whatever, it won't cause you to have seeds which will lower your CBD.
Because once it starts developing a seed, it stops producing everything else
and it develops seed.
Yeah, which it wants to do.
Plants want to live and they want to produce seed.
I think that's absolutely amazing.
And when we were talking about this earlier, I thought of it also as a great way
for people to protect their genetics and to be able to release a strain
that's got that triploid protection so nobody can go in and pollinate it.
Like you keep the clean version at home so you can breed from it.
But nobody can go out and then kind of copy your genetics
and breed off of it in an effective way.
And I think that's a really unique view on how to protect your genetics
because that's a huge concept right now.
And we're hoping to talk with some other people with the Humboldt Grace Legacy Project
that are talking about other different ways to protect genetics
through like blockchain technology, free categorization,
and protection of the genetic material as well.
Blockchain, genetic bank.
So we hope to have Lelaine Yadwa and Marty Yip from Sensational Solutions.
Some of those people come talk about that stuff later.
But I think a lot of these technologies and concepts have a future of working together
and that's what the Emerald Cup means to me.
And that's one thing that's really changed my perception of the cannabis plant
is coming to events like this, specifically this one,
and talking with people like yourself and the opportunity to connect.
I know I was super stoked to introduce you to those guys earlier.
And I've got no vested interest other than seeing it elevate the platform
and seeing how you guys now start to combine concepts that were foreign to each other.
This is just one of those networking opportunities where there's nothing like it in the world.
No, no there isn't.
It's the rising tide lifts all ships and we're all in it together.
And cannabis is odd and new.
It's good to work together, especially now that it's growing and with legalization.
You are going to see new players and the industry is changing.
And there's larger producers and there's foreign interest.
It's going to be different.
And so it's good that we can stay together.
Like even with what you're saying, the legacy farmer thing too,
and just staying true to not just local, but true to good quality and good tested products
and good things that work well working together.
It'll help even as new people come into the industry to help weed out all the...
It'll eliminate all these issues.
And just here's good programs that work.
Here's things that actually are based in science.
Royal Grown Radio is not only in the cannabis industry, being a part of this on this level
and steering it in the direction as we go through legalization to make sure it stays where it's supposed to.
As far as healing people, the planet.
But those technologies that have come from cannabis cultivation
and now have transferred over into actual traditional ag and the growing of our food supply.
That has always been one of the most exciting parts of being a part of it.
The science, the money behind cannabis has literally led to some of these products
that might not have been produced on the general ag market.
And that's why I'm super impressed by companies like BioAg that are putting their money where their mouth is, so to speak.
And focusing on research not only for hemp or cannabis and not only for big ag, but combining the concepts.
Because that is where we're going.
It's a crop. It's a cool crop.
It's unique because the thing too with, I think what you're saying with innovation coming from cannabis
is basically because the better the cannabis is, the more people want it and the more they'll pay for it.
It makes it a really unique crop.
It's not true with apples. You don't pay more for a redder apple.
So nothing really drives them to get...
So there's a reason people have pushed limits with cannabis and pushed limits with yield
and pushed limits with quality and the terpene profiles keep going up and up and up.
Your CBD numbers and THC and all the other cannabinoid numbers keep going up and up and up
because there's a reason and there's a market for it and people want it.
And it's a unique crop in that sense.
It's like wine. Maybe wine, the better wines get a much more premium dollar.
But there's not a lot of products like that. Food's not like that.
Your pink lemonade blueberries and they're going to get maybe a little higher dollar
because they're pink and they're unique, but that kind of is a limited set of market.
You're not going to grow six different varieties and be like,
Oh, all right, these dukes are going for, you know, $6 more a pound this year.
That's just not how it works.
So it's really interesting that that concept of how the markets developed
and how the plants accelerated, but also it came out of necessity
because you could only grow one light in a basement or five lights in a basement
and most places and people like, well, I'm getting like six ounces.
How can I get 12? I mean, I can't grow enough to satisfy the people around me
that want quality cannabis and I want to make it better every time.
So that like necessity to get a little more, to make it a little better
and that drive to make your crop the very best on the smallest scales,
trying to feed a nation that wants cannabis, feed the world that wants cannabis.
It's got to come out of the shadows.
And that's where we see these new hybridizations of research and big ag
and cannabis all coming together.
And we just got to work to stay true to protecting people, place and planet.
While we do that.
Yeah, absolutely.
So there's so much more we have to talk about here.
Are there any new products coming out from BioAg that the world should know about specifically?
Tell us one more time the name of the silica fulvic product.
Bio Super Sil.
Bio Super Sil.
Yeah, got it.
So we've got a new line of amino acid products.
So we've got a, it's a soy protein hydrolysate amino acid product
that we deal with a manufacturer that deals exclusively with BioAg.
But we basically, it's called Nitro Amino.
And basically what it does is it's a complexing agent
and it's a good source of organic nitrogen.
It's soluble.
You can use it in hydro.
You can use it in spray through drip.
But it's more, it's, so basically what happens is they use enzymes
and they put it through a hydrolysis process which breaks down the soy,
the amino acids with these enzymes.
So they're enzyme, they're enzymatically digested soy protein hydrolysates.
So they're already in a plant available form.
So it's an organic product that basically feeds your soil microbiology.
So it's a great food source for your soil.
And then you can use it also as a nitrogen form.
But it's mostly meant to be a complexing agent for your fertilizer.
So similar to like the humics, fulvics, amino acids are organic acids that complex ions.
And so they just help with that.
And then we also have, because they're so good at that,
we have micronutrients that are complex with amino acids.
So they're certified, or they're not certified organic yet.
We're working on that.
Yes.
The nitros.
Yeah, the nitro is certified.
Nitro is certified organic through OMRI.
But the rest are in process.
The rest are in process because they're all coming out.
We're launching in like January, February, technically.
Products are organic.
Oh, yeah.
No, but we got a guy for that.
Shout out to Alex.
Alex is the certified.
And we're going to give a shout out to Jamie on that note from here.
Yeah, the organic.
Oh, yeah.
We've got some certified organic products that are dropping next year.
You know, a relatively simple approach.
Organic.
Yeah, a relatively simple approach.
But an organic amendment blend that's a combination of micronized and non-micronized ingredients.
But even just that, even though they're all mostly organic products already,
it's just a blend that we process in different ways and combine the ingredients in a kind of unique manner.
It took us months and months and months and months.
And we're like, listen, everything here is certified organic.
Everything we're showing you is certified.
Why is this a challenge?
And it just, you know, I'm thankful that they're there to protect the organic chain.
But it can be cumbersome.
It can be.
I think because it's so hard to get the certification, you can trust the certification sometimes.
It's like, it is a problem though.
So it's, and that's the thing is there's all these different, you know, there's biological, there's certified organic, there's sustainably grown.
And it's just, a lot of these are labels, but it's more, I think it's about educating people on how things are grown.
That's more what, or what is actually, what the ingredients in their products mean and where is it coming from.
We'll get there.
Yeah. Source.
I'm glad you mentioned that because source is so important on all of these things.
Even products that you can, are widely available, like just determining and understanding that not all of them are created equal and source matters, I think is a huge piece of the equation.
Oh, absolutely.
You know, you choose the wrong type of chicken manure to go in your organic farm and it'll be the last time you make that mistake.
Yeah. Even though it's organic, you're likely, especially with poultry, because of all of the miticides on the feathers, all of the ways they have to, the arsenic, they have to treat the laying barns for insects.
And, you know, they're not treating the birds necessarily, but all that ends up in the litter and it gets composted and becomes organic through the composting process.
But these are chemicals that don't compost out.
So the really important things to be aware of and to test your inputs is a great place to start.
And you should be able to like most of this stuff. You can find it or you can request it from companies and just ask for if they have heavy metal testing or if they have stuff like that.
And that's, that is one interesting thing with cannabis versus other crops is they have their own set of standards on heavy metals and arsenic.
They have their own characteristics, they have their own levels versus, you know, and that's the thing with our products is they're all, because we do deal with cannabis, we try to keep everything super low on everything.
And that's the main goal. But even below the organic standards and below the agricultural standards, because they have set required levels on different inputs.
And it's interesting because the cannabis ones are sometimes even more like lower allowed amounts than agriculture, which is interesting, but it's because you smoke it.
Yeah, they're testing parts per billion, parts per trillion.
Yeah. Sorry, I was going to hand you the mic.
So, yeah, it's really, it's really interesting like that. We're testing cannabis and we talk about this a lot on Royal Grown Radio, but this is a perfect environment to talk about it.
Is the testing for cannabis is so much more elaborate than your food.
Oh, absolutely.
So people aren't looking at those things when they're producing food crops. They're like, oh, organic chicken manure. Great. Throw it on.
But they've never had to go through the scrutiny and seeing these parts per million, parts per billion of, you know, even a propellant in something that's not a chemical pesticide fungicide.
The propellants are classified as fungicides and pesticides.
Yeah.
And all of a sudden you don't even test negative on your actual flower, but you go to extract and now you're failing.
And, you know, I know we're preaching to a choir to a lot of you people at home, but tune into the Future Cannabis Project. A lot of you guys are aware of this sort of stuff, but I don't feel like we can overstate the importance of spreading that knowledge to people all across traditional ag and saying, hey, take a closer look.
It might change things. It might, you know, it could, you know, it's a first step.
Then, you know, these companies are learning about it and they're learning and they're increasing their, because they want to deal with cannabis.
Maybe the change will happen on other crops, hopefully.
Hopefully.
And improve and they, or maybe they'll see something different and they'll be like, oh, maybe we should be testing for this or this or this in our inputs, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Or even for food.
Like, really the acceptable level of pesticides and conventional produce is staggering.
Yeah, it's frightening.
Go out and educate yourself on that sort of stuff.
Even the acceptable levels on some of the organic stuff is beyond what we'd like to see.
Yeah, absolutely.
Definitely a little on the faulty side, you know.
I look for like the Oregon, Washington, California stamp of approval on a lot of the food that I feed my children.
Yeah.
You know, that standard is definitely as watered down as you could do it.
Yeah.
You know.
And that's, again, like I was saying, you know, cannabis is leading that way and hopefully that does trickle out.
We talk about it all the time, you know, organic food found on the other side of the country was like just impossible.
You know, now you pretty much go anywhere, even Targets and Walmarts and stuff like that.
I mean, there's aisles with organic food now.
I tend not to try to support them and buy my organic food from them, but it is there for people that, you know, that's their only source, you know.
And it's great.
We're making some progress.
Sometimes it doesn't happen as quick as we all like it, but we are making progress.
And cannabis, I feel like, is definitely a huge player in that, you know, fueling it forward.
It's fun to be a part of it.
I like because it's a newer industry.
At least it's been around for a long time and people know a lot about how to grow.
But because it's new, I do see a lot more openness in cannabis growers to try new stuff and to test out new products and to do things differently and do it in a unique way that's not the norm because it's new to everyone.
It's not as established.
This is the standard norm of how we grow wheat or how we grow, you know.
Nope, we do it ABC.
These are our steps of how to do this crop.
It's what everyone around us does.
It's like, no, cannabis, every farm is set up differently.
Everyone's got a different design or a different cropping system or fertilizers, the way they're using stuff.
And that's great because it's still all new and it's a land of experimentation.
It'll get better as time progresses, but it's cool.
Well said.
There's not a lot of new crops.
No, no, no, there isn't.
We're an experimental bunch for sure.
So, there's a lot more we can cover here.
I'm going to take a short break.
We've got some other guests kind of milling around here.
We're going to round up.
We've got to go catch our friend.
Perfect.
We're going to connect with Peter here and see who we're going to get on the mics next.
So, thank you all very much.
We appreciate it.
Thank you, guys.
Thank you so much for joining us.
Josh and Eric from BioAg.
Come check out their talk tomorrow at the Harvest Ball here at Emerald Cup 2021.
Thank you, guys.
It's been fun.
Thanks.
Yes.
Yeah.
Sweet.
We should do a little audio information here.
So, yeah, what's going on around the mics, guys?
So, we're just going to do a quick mic change so you can hear us better.
We missed – he went to the MJ BizCon and I missed it.
So, then we were like to our boss, it was like, can we go to Emerald Cup?
And he was like, yeah, we can go.
And then I was like – and I'm up and be like, can we talk?
And they were like, yeah, you guys can talk.
I was just stoked that it was an event that wasn't in Vegas.
I was like, oh, dude, yeah, don't send me to Vegas again this year, please.
We've learned so much about it here.
Oh, yes.
Yes.
My mom's going to come to Vegas.
Yes.
My popcorn's going to come.
So, you're going to do the party?
What's that?
You're going to do the after party.
Where is the after party?
In the office.
In the office?
I think we're going to take a dinner.
Yeah.
Well, do you know who's throwing it?
I don't.
Yeah, I'll –
We're going to have to have that.
Oh, right, right.
Yeah, no, I'll get a pass.
We're not doing it all night.
I was also thinking we have this awesome house that's on the vineyard.
And I was like, I'd love to just get like 20 –
I'd love to just get like 20 people to come hang out at the house and smoke weed.
Yeah, do you have my phone number?
I don't have it.
I can text you later.
Yeah, if you have mine, text me.
I'll text you later.
All right.
What was the order?
I ended up like bringing it to the –
They're already here.
We're in Sonoma.
I'm a wine drinker.
Let's do that.
That sounds more fun than you're going to flip.
We're going to flip.
We're going to flip.
We're going to flip.
Yeah, so we need to upgrade the mics because these are my sets.
They're great.
All right.
All right, you ready?
Check, check, that's good.
Check, check.
Check, check, check.
Microphone check.
One, two, what is this?
Check, check, one, two.
What?
What?
In court, don't you have to talk in front of people?
What?
Ah, corporate lawyer.
Good, good.
All right.
So, I told Jody to grab a farmer with some dank weed that we could smoke.
Oh, where'd Brandon go?
He'll come back.
He'll come back.
I know he will, but.
We know that.
Yeah, you want to talk to Brian from Vital Farm?
So, tell Brian to bring some of his dankest weed to come roll a joint for us.
Sure.
I don't know who he is.
Yeah, Brian.
His name is Brian Mullen.
Yeah, yeah.
All right.
So, you want to take a seat?
Yeah.
All right.
I'm a YouTube channel.
Oh, you know, all right.
So, you're a lawyer who watches a weed show on YouTube.
Yes.
Explain yourself.
So, I assume you're a cannabis lawyer?
I'm a cannabis lawyer.
Okay.
And where are you based?
In Oakland.
Okay.
But my law firm's in San Francisco.
And, uh, so none of the farmers are making any money?
None of the farmers are making any money.
One, two, three.
One, two, three.
One check.
Oh, sorry.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh, yeah, because this one was pulling.
All right.
So, you're working with cannabis brands in California?
We're good.
We're good.
I think everybody's, it's a very forgiving audience.
They're not sarcastic at all.
But, uh, all right.
So, you're working, like, are you working with big brands, small brands?
Anyone.
Anyone.
Okay.
And what are you seeing in the, uh, in the California market right now from a legal,
from your perspective, what do you find interesting that's kind of happening in this evolving landscape?
Yeah, so I've been working on something I'm excited about.
Okay.
I'm calling it Canopy Rate.
With Canopy?
It's called Canopy Rate.
Got it.
It's just the name of the project.
Got it.
And the idea is that because you have to put a little barcode, a little tag on all of the
flowering plants, we should be able to operate a system where breeders can license genetics
the same way that music licensing works.
So, if you think about a breeder as an artist and a strain as a song and a plant as, like,
the equivalent of a play of a song, having, like, a music...
So, Capulator the artist, Mac One as the song.
Right, exactly.
Right.
What do you say, Clark?
So, the idea is if you set a strain, we should define a strain the same way as we define
a copyright.
So, like, just to, you attest that it's an original work, you can take a cutting of fresh
leaf material, stick it in a tamper evident package with a little QR code on the inside,
take a photo of your sample with the QR code, stick it in your freezer, and all of the sudden
you can create this system where you're invoicing based on flowering plant tags the same way
that, like, a music streaming system would work.
Right.
Okay.
Got it.
So, you know what happened with the phyllos, right?
Yeah.
So...
So, is this kind of out of the ashes of that or...
It's a different application of the same concept of trapping genetics and fixing them, but
instead of you submitting your, like, your samples to, like, a central person, instead
you're keeping it in your freezer.
And so, we've built the entire system, like, on Hedera blockchain, so the entire thing
is confidential.
Everything you say about your plants is confidential, your invoices are confidential, there's no
sort of, like, there's no one snooping under the hood.
So, I remember talking to Kevin McKernan four years ago, maybe, about kind of, like, blockchain
use cases in cannabis and, like, basically time stamping when you submitted your genetics
to a system where somebody...
Like, my big thing, this whole crowd of people watching right now has a...
There's a whole spectrum of perspectives on, can you patent a plant?
Like, fuck you.
All across the spectrum, I mean, I think where I stand is if someone does something truly
unique, they should be rewarded for it.
I think what everybody fears is a patent troll coming in and doing kind of offensive patent
litigation, like the Monsantos of the world or whoever is going to come in next.
Does this seem like something that, like, small breeders could use to kind of...
Because not everybody wants to make money in Mint Money.
What if they just want to make sure nobody else comes in and tries to make money?
So, this could apply to them as well, right?
Yeah.
And so, there's a way that we can use the same registration feature.
There's a camera going right there.
So, you can use it for archival purposes.
So, the idea of not having, like, a central administrator that can, like, look under the
hood and see what you're saying about your plants, the deals that you're doing, is that
you can register a strain and timestamp it based on your sample in an evidence bag in
your freezer, but no one knows about it.
But, like, you at least have...
You've, like, registered it to the blockchain.
And so, if anybody steals your plants, you can at least say, like, oh, I actually registered
it, you know, at some point.
And so, we're creating it so that the privacy features are sort of permanent.
And so, other users and me as the administrator can really only see the information that you
choose to share.
But you can have it so that your strain is completely private, or you can say your strain
is searchable and people can click grow and grow it and then have the invoicing work,
but keep your identity private until you have to pick up your seeds from somebody.
So, the idea is to take sort of what Open Cannabis Project did and kind of turn it inside
out and then tie it into metrics so that people can generate invoices and get paid.
And so, if you're a breeder, you should...
If people are growing your plants, you should be able to get royalties.
Everyone agrees to the same form of contract.
I'm a lawyer, so that's what I do.
One form of contract, sort of, like, one way to invoice, no paper, everything's confidential.
That's the plan.
Are you...
So, this guy, Caleb, started something called Copy Left.
Are you familiar with that?
Yeah, I'm familiar.
I've never met Caleb before, though.
I think it'd be interesting to have, like, a conversation with all the people who are
kind of having different, similar visions of kind of like a copyright future or patent future
and kind of, I think, things around, like, fairness.
And I mean, I think for me, and I think a lot of people watching, that's the big thing,
is, like, who wants to come in and abuse any system that's set up?
And, like, what abuse may they, you know, like, things that...
I think copyright has, like, good intention, right?
But then, like, you have bad actors who are like, oh, like, I could...
Like Monsanto, right?
Like, the whole story about, you know, our pollen drifts 10 miles to someone else's farm.
Basically, we rape their corn with our corn, and then we come and sue them.
And you're just like, every...
Nobody thinks that's right.
And here's our grower.
This guy's going to roll a joint for us.
You ready to roll a joint?
I'm ready to smoke one.
So come sit for one second.
One second.
Just quickly tell us who you are and what you rolled.
Uh-oh. I never don't want to use it.
That's okay. Come sit down. Don't be shy. Come right next to me.
So you just hold the mic up to your mouth.
Thank you.
You got it. All right, so what's your name?
Jeff Young.
Okay.
And you gave me some...
It was the cherry...
Georgia pie.
Georgia pie. Right. Georgia pie.
So Georgia pie is what?
I don't know exactly.
Okay.
I bought clones.
Okay.
And I grew it.
Okay.
And we're in Southern Humboldt?
Yep.
And do you grow dank weed?
I try.
Okay.
I'd like to hear that.
It's a family farm.
Okay. So have you lived there for like your whole life?
Yeah, I was born there.
And your parents?
I was born there, yeah.
So you're like a second or third generation farmer?
Exactly.
Okay.
And we have a lawyer with us over here.
So are you enjoying the regulated market in California in 2021 as we enter 2022?
Is it everything you had hoped it would be?
No.
And by the way, can I try that?
Yeah.
Do you mind sharing?
Absolutely. Georgia pie.
It could be better.
Everything is still new.
It's not my fault. Don't blame me for it.
No, I'm just looking that way.
Yeah.
So many regulations and taxes, you know.
And are you Christmas?
Actually, yes.
That was not planned.
That was not planned.
So talk about you in like what size pots?
Actually, the 3.0 bags, the big ones right there.
That's holding that tree.
Probably 3,000 bags at a time.
Tastes good.
Sorry, each pot is how big?
It's the big bags. I think they're three cubic feet.
So that would...
And are you using pots or using like grass roots?
Actually, I just plant right there in that bag.
Oh, you literally plant it in the bag?
Yes.
Okay, got it, got it, got it.
They actually made it for that.
I love this company.
Hence the Christmas trees growing out of the bags right now.
But I always dump it out and got it, got it, got it.
Cool.
But yeah, you could use different pots.
And how many plants did you...
So it's all outdoor, right? Or light depth too?
Mixed light greenhouse.
Automated greenhouse.
So what kind of fun tools do you have for automation?
Just basically automated watering, automated...
But like what company makes the...
Oh, the greenhouse?
No, no, the automation stuff.
Like the controllers and...
Link 4.
Okay.
Link 4, yeah.
They work with next gen greenhouse.
And what kind of lights are you using?
I don't have lights yet.
But I have.
They're in the process.
I'm going to use Lux lighting.
And how did you decide on Lux over other...
Friends of mine.
Okay, oh, you know them?
Use it.
No, friends of mine use them and they like them.
So you just did basically your fall harvest
and you're going to bring the lights in for like a winter turn?
Yep.
And was it all the Georgia pie in the fall or what else?
Georgia pie and apple fritter.
Okay.
And grapes and cream.
Okay.
Are you growing for what you like
or are you growing for what you think the market wants in a given season?
For the market.
Okay.
But I like, I smoke it.
Because I know a lot of people who grow stuff and they're like,
I mean, I wouldn't smoke it, but I just grew a ton of it for the market.
Yep, nope.
I smoke what I do.
And for the winter, what do you think you want to grow out?
Same stuff or you want to mix it up?
I'm going to stay with that.
So you're going to dial it.
So what did you learn about like each of the cultivars as you grew?
Because this was your first time growing.
The Georgia pie, yes, and the apple fritter.
So tell me about that.
Tell me about the ladies.
They're basically like...
What makes them moving all the right ways, growing all the right ways?
Sunlight, good water, clean water.
But are they like tall and stretchy or are they short?
Actually, I grew them seven feet tall in those pots.
Okay.
In those bags.
They were kind of too big.
Do you know him?
We've met before.
He uses your stuff.
Yeah, totally.
He's a customer.
Paying customer.
Come join us.
We got our legal analyst.
Hopefully we have some of these at home.
Yeah, I need to, this is where I stock up on lighters.
How's the peanut gallery over there?
Are they nice and civil?
Is Cheddar Bob leading by example?
Are we having fun yet?
And saying all kind things.
I've never done one of these.
Do a lot of people grow straight in the bags?
Yes, predominantly, especially with the King's Mix 3 cubic foot, that's what it's for.
It's a 20-gallon bag, 19 and change, but typically people are planting into it.
That was the question I was getting to.
It's like a 20-gallon pot.
3 cubic foot, exactly.
3.0.
Are you bumping things?
That's fine.
That's why I said don't be shy.
So you're in Sohum, right?
So we've met a few times in the past.
Thanks for all your support over the years.
Yeah, no problem.
The soil is very good.
Thank you, man.
It has a little bit of food in it, right?
Yeah, it does.
It's got a 5-15 day charge depending on what size plant you're putting in it and the environmental conditions.
If you put a 4-inch pot in it, you're going to have a little longer run than if you put a 3-gallon pot into that bag.
But you're going to have a good 14 days.
Are you ashing on his carpet?
You just want to take it easy, cow mag, tease, things like that to get things pumping and then start introducing more NPK and more food.
If I was watering every day, it wasn't automated. I was hand watering.
I grew them 7 feet tall.
They get big.
It's designed to really push the size and to be able to water often like that.
That was really the goal when we were creating King's Mix.
We were looking at the struggles people had in growing depths and in growing high elevation in late season.
When it starts getting cold, you lose all that turgor pressure when your soil stays wet and it stays wet for days and days and days.
We wanted to keep the aeration higher, keep the soil temperature higher, so people had less issues with that under 50 kind of damping off
and losing the ability to move nutrients.
In the hot weather, it drinks fast, it dries fast, you're watering every day, but you're getting growth rates that match it.
I think it's a great tool to be able to move in and out quickly so you can get your multiple runs over, you can turn your greenhouses.
That's really kind of the purpose behind King's Mix.
In my depth, I'll use that bag all year.
I'll re-amend in that bag and re-plant.
I hate using plastic, but wood's expensive.
Yeah, me too, and we hate using the plastic.
That's one cool thing about this is it's the vessel.
You're going to buy the soil and bring it home.
You're going to start in a bag most likely.
You can get some bulk or some totes and save on plastic that way too.
There's a lot of dynamic there.
Thank God, more joints to slow.
You get those, you save a lot of time on setting up.
Save money on...
Can I bring it in with the skidster?
Yeah.
We're pretty much ready.
Wait now?
Swap it out.
We stopped him as he was trying to get something.
Yeah, yeah.
You can come back later.
We'll be here all day chopping it.
At the next event we'll get the update on the winter grow.
Hey, great to see you again.
We're going to catch up after this.
And go that way, around all the gear.
Come on in, my friend.
Who's joint are we smoking next?
It's Brian Mallon from Vital Garden Supply.
What's the brand?
Vital Grown.
We have another one called Crucial.
Crucial.
What's the distinction between...
I see you've got your dab rig.
Vital Grown is 100% product.
It's only grown with Vital Garden.
Pretend we're friends.
Are we not?
Get nice and close.
So the Vital Grown?
Vital Grown is all flowers grown at 100% Vital Garden Supply products.
So it has to qualify, it has to be bio-organic certified.
No heavy metals.
NDs in all the heavy metal spots.
And then Crucial is a little bit more of a Swiss Army knife.
Because throughout all of our years in the industry,
we have a lot of friends who use some of our products but not 100%.
So that's the flower that goes to Crucial.
So it's a little bit more wide spectrum.
I don't want to say that.
There's stuff that's grown only in our stuff, and that's the best.
That's one brand.
And there's stuff that has other stuff that touches it.
You could say that.
I'm sure that's not in the public brain.
I try to be respectful of all people's techniques.
And there is indoor in the Crucial.
A lot of indoor growers at least supplement some synthetic fertilizer.
Personally I am an organic advocate and I do even on indoor use only organic.
So you walk the walk.
I do. I think Michael can testify.
I can absolutely attest to that.
It's one thing we've connected on over the years over and over.
No, I'm actually super passionate about the organic thing.
I eat only organic food. I grow a lot of my own food.
So do we have some organic weed right in front of us?
Absolutely.
Of course. I actually brought some for you.
Do you want to tell us about it?
How many square feet are you growing?
Nevada County is limited to 10,000 square foot licenses.
I'm partners on a farm that has a few different parcels.
We have four 10,000 square foot licenses.
I have another farm in Mendo that I'm not necessarily partners with.
I help them with consultation and nutrient regimen and all that.
We get a lot of product from him too.
He's right on the Covolo Road but right off the 101 pretty much.
Okay, Valleyside.
Yeah, Valleyside. Exactly.
That's pretty much where all our product comes from for Vital Ground.
So what did you grow this season?
So this is the outdoor, right?
Actually, this is the outdoor.
This is some indoor.
And so is this.
And so is this.
I think the last time we sat down together, we talked about this.
I had this strain for a really long time.
This OG Kush.
I want to give you some of this.
This is a good point to talk about when you're talking about this long time protected genetic.
About part of what Jeff's involved in with the blockchain.
I apologize. I missed part of your guys' conversation when you were exploring this.
But can you tell me a little more about how you were protecting genetics through this blockchain technology?
Yeah, of course.
So the idea is that because you have to put a little tag on all of your plans,
if you can come up with a way to decide what a strain is,
then you can use those little tags to invoice breeder to grower transactions
the same way that music streaming works.
So you enter, your tag goes into metric, you use the breeder's name,
and then all of a sudden you generate an invoice at the end of the month.
And so because the entire system could work,
the idea of using the blockchain is that you could,
all of these invoices would be completely confidential
and only the people that are doing business with each other will be able to see the transaction.
So there's no administrator, no one can look under the hood,
no one can see what your data is, no one can see anything
except for the two people that are doing business with each other.
So that allows people who are uber protective of their genetics then
to work with a select group of partners, put it out there,
and when it leaks outside of that, they have at least some way to recognize
and track that genetic and try to protect themselves, right?
Exactly. And the way that we're defining a strain, which I think is pretty cool,
so it's called Canopyright, and the idea is that we use a definition of a strain
that's similar to copyright, which is just an original work of cannabis breeding.
And the idea is, in order to come up with a legally binding way to license genetics,
all you really need is a cutting of fresh leaf material,
a tamper-evident package like evidence bags you can order on Amazon
or you can pick up from the office supply store, and a little QR code.
So you go to your garden, you take a cutting, you stick it in your evidence bag
with a little QR code that you print out, and we have a little workflow to guide you through it.
You close the evidence bag, you take a photo of your sample,
you give it a unique name, and that is the strain.
And there's various ways to deal with misappropriation,
but the idea is, if somebody wants to grow your strain,
they just go, they search for it in a central search window,
they click grow, you get your seeds or your clones from the breeder,
and then the invoicing happens at the back end automatically.
And the whole thing, because you have to put a tag on every single plant,
the same way that Spotify works, like music licensing works, could work for weed.
It's different from every other agricultural product,
because you have to tag every single plant.
Right, and I knew you'd be intrigued by this.
That's one thing that I was like, okay, let's see where this conversation goes.
You're saying this is something you've worked for a while in the direction that you might...
I don't consider it my proprietary, but yeah, I've been growing that strain for a really long time,
but I didn't breed it.
Yeah, so what we're going to do is also, there's a way to say that,
so I haven't built this yet, that's sort of like something I'm working on right now,
is a way to say, I'm just the caretaker of this, I have seeds,
and then there's going to be, there's things that are in the community that no one owns,
but you should be able to say, at least that I have this in my nursery,
and if you want clones, then you can pick them up from me.
So, like, in music, there's a lot of traditional songs, things like that,
that then don't, like, there's no songwriter credit or payment or copyright monies,
mailbox monies going to those people, things like that.
So there's going to be genetics that could fall into a similar category
that are kind of public domain, but yet there's an avenue to protect that super new novel.
Yeah, and so the goal here is that you could also, everything is completely private,
so it's not like, you could charge whatever you want, you could charge nothing,
you can keep a million, you can register a thousand strains or one,
everything is sort of like up to you, how public or how private you keep it,
and because there's no central administrator, there's going to be no real way to monitor it,
but because the invoicing happens using metric tags, if you want to use that feature,
then you have to be a licensed grower in the system.
I'm truly fascinated by that, and, you know, for my years of knowing Brian
and knowing how, you know, passionate he is about not only organic farming,
but like, this is another really kind of interesting tie-in to these people
that have been accelerating the cannabis cultivation side for years,
so like finding ways to protect these breeders, you know, like you're saying with the vital groan,
you're protecting the cultivator and giving them a value-added option
by recognizing what they've done to protect and keep it organic and clean product,
and this is like a similar synonymous project to protect the breeder, right?
Yeah, totally, and we've worked with our companies to try to tie it all together too,
because like Enviroganic has been a big advocate for organic cannabis,
and now that the O-Cal is going to be a program that the state offers,
organic certification for cannabis for California,
so now Enviroganic is a certifier for O-Cal,
so another standard that we'll have for vital groan is going to be O-Cal certified,
so basically we're starting the first organic certified cannabis program ever,
because this is the first program that the state has actually offered,
or any state for that matter, to actually verify organic standards,
and that's something I'm like super excited about.
Is that a ton of squabbling between people who want to define the standard,
like can we move it a little bit in this direction,
and someone else is like no, let's make it less stringent or more stringent?
Well I think that part's been done, and it took a little bit of back and forth,
and it was like the CDFA had it open for public comment for almost a year,
and next thing we knew they finally approved everybody's back and forth,
and now that the program's going to be a program that the state offers,
what's that all about?
Everyone's concerned because it's hard to get the certification,
because how does it begin?
It's the cameo.
Since there's no certified moms, and there's not a certified organic nursery yet,
so everything has to start really early stages, you know what I'm saying?
Yeah, where's the entry point?
So what we've come up with is a grace period,
where certain things, you'll be able to get clones from a nursery that's not always organic,
and as long as you document how you're taking care of those clones from that point on,
you'll be able to still get your certification.
You have a grace period, you'll have to take clones from those,
and you'll have to take that upon yourself to be your own nursery,
until there is an organic nursery.
So the first year, there might even be a two-year grace period,
where they're going to allow you to show,
if you show that you've tried to get certified organic clones from three different sources,
then you can qualify for the grandfathered in of like,
okay, well, since there's no other certified organic clones, we can go to this nursery.
As long as we document from this point on, it's cared for under the NOP rules,
which the NOP is the National Organic Program,
which is what the CDFA OCAL program has been formed around.
So yes, there is some controversy.
But that's kind of a good answer, which is they've established standards,
and it's just going to ride on those standards.
Sorry it took me a long while to get back to that,
but I felt like all that was important back then.
Yeah, this is long-form content here, so we got like six more hours to fill.
So my question is, we're just dropping our organic amendment law,
we're just dropping our outline.
After all these years, we've talked about it before, we're finally there.
We're CDFA and we're OMRI listed, but that wouldn't fit at this time
because we're not the Enviroganic certified?
Well, for Vital Grown, sorry, for Vital Grown,
we have been trying to hold all of our farms to the standard of getting Enviroganic.
Yeah.
And to the form of actually helping them get the paperwork done.
I personally have helped them fill out the paperwork.
Let's do it.
And it's basically just the SOPs.
And it's basically the same for all of them.
Is that the fun part of your job?
Not necessarily, but...
Let me walk you through bureaucratic forms.
But I feel like once I get to that point, then it's like a done deal
and I have another person who's like an organic farmer.
And that is my goal, is to have more organic cannabis available to the world.
And then theoretically, they could then hold someone else's hand through the process.
You don't have to do it for everyone.
Definitely.
And at the end of the day, you know, like the more organic, clean, grown cannabis out there,
the better for the world.
And sure, it may benefit my nutrient company as it all comes back around.
Hey, everybody. Hope you're doing well.
Oh, wait, I got to change camera.
Hello, hello, hello.
I got two things going. Hope you're all doing well.
Peter is there. I am here to help out.
They had it go down slightly.
Hey, Smith.
I don't know how the company would feel about me.
We're back.
Alright, and we're back.
The question was if we're incorporating like cultivation requirements into the blockchain.
And the answer is yes.
But the way that it is right now, and this is the entire thing is like just a demo version
so people can play around with it.
Use garden plans like you don't have to put the goods into the system yet
before you decide that it's cool or not.
And then we're going to delete everything and start fresh.
Cool.
And like hopefully January 1st.
But I mean, hopefully January 1st.
But the idea is you could build in as much information as you want.
And the information gets written into the contract.
So if you're saying this is this can only be grown within a certain appellation.
And somebody grows it outside of the appellation.
Then you could say that's a breach of contract, right?
Your brand benefit is that it's grown in a certain place.
And like that's how you're choosing to build your brand.
And so this is customizable.
Like I think for me just as like a lawyer, I want to force people to do as little as possible.
So you need to have a unique name.
You need to have a sample in your freezer.
And that's it.
And that should be all that it takes in order to create all to be able to get royalties.
But there's all sorts of things that you could build in.
That's fascinating to me because I feel like now then you can be like,
OK, hey, this was crucial bread.
You know, this is vital grown.
And the people that are taking those extra steps and going the extra mile
then are like, OK, hey, put up or shut up.
Like this is what we're doing.
And if you want to get on this in with this level, like, yeah, come on, buy these genetics,
grow these genetics.
But you have to do it right or you're in breach of contract.
So you can't take these genetics that were bred from land,
raised strains designed for organic growers and take them out and crush them commercially
in indoor chemi gardens.
Yeah, but if that's what you.
Yeah, but it should be up to you, the person that's controlling the genetics.
Yes.
And that's and so like my goal is to not really make people do stuff.
It's just other than keeping a plant sample, because if that's the only way
that you can figure out if somebody is misappropriating is like sending it
to medicinal genomics, just a company that's going to do a test.
But you shouldn't you shouldn't have to do that.
And so for me as a lawyer, like I've done these deals, I've done like genetics licensing deals before.
It's like really complicated.
There's lots of ways that it can get screwed up.
And like for me, I'm just like there should be a free version.
There should be an easy version.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's what I did.
That makes sense to me.
I mean, I'm certainly not an expert on blockchain or protecting genetics, but.
Neither am I for that.
All of the logic there seems to track.
Well, I see it a lot because I work with a lot of growers and there's a lot of like,
oh, I bred that strain or that we were partners at this time and then he went his way
and I went my way and things sometimes go haywire.
And, you know, as a businessman, I understand.
But as like a plant person and like I just seeing what what's right and wrong is like
people should be able to grow whatever they get their hands on.
And if they're smart, they should make arrangements with the people that they that bred it
so that it doesn't turn into a war.
Because you basically, you know, like you have access to whatever genetics.
But if you really want to capitalize on what that brand or that breeder has done to really for it to come full circle,
you need to have that blessing.
Yes.
There's nothing more important than that to me.
It's like making sure like if I'm going to say I'm growing this strain and the world knows that this strain is grown by this guy,
I'm going to have a relationship with that guy and he's going to be like, you can grow my stuff as long as you want.
And if anything changes, I want him to let me know.
I want him to let me know.
Isn't this what happened with his burner and cement shoes?
You know, I don't I don't know.
But I've heard stories that there's a lot of super, you know, reputable people that have had really tough falling outs
with other super reputable people and it's hard to know who to trust.
And, you know, everybody's got their side of the story and they see it from their perspective.
But that's where I see like tracking it and writing it and documenting it.
And just even if you don't charge, even if you allow it to be free access, free market, that's cool.
Yeah. Well, I mean, for example, I have grown this year.
I've grown a couple of strains that are cookie strains, your powers up, Ken Power strains.
And we had an agreement and the agreement was that, you know, when the flower is available,
we're going to have the option to buy it.
We have the first right to buy it.
So I stayed in touch all along.
They came and they looked at it as it was coming.
And, you know, we're all on the same page.
And that's to me, that's the foundation of like any sort of good relationship is just, you know.
OK, but next step, was that a handshake agreement?
Yeah, it was.
And there's pros and cons to both.
You know, like this year at the end of the day, the way the market is now compared to when we got those plants.
If we would have a papered up contract that said we were going to get market rate, we would have been doing really good.
But on the other hand, that like limits you as well.
So right now the market took a dip.
There's a fly.
Well, usually when people do contracts, that's what does happen.
But since we did it and we said, hey, we're going to agree to keep communicating and make this work and have have open communication.
And not everyone can do this because things happen.
But but to me, that's one thing that's a little bit different about cannabis is like we need our word is everything.
And yeah, there's a time and place.
I've been burned a lot.
No, and I'm not in this industry.
So it goes the same here.
The greatest people. And then you're also like other people.
And same here. But at the end of the day, it's it's our jobs to do what's right.
And I'm not saying there's not bad players and I'm not saying there's not bad players.
And sometimes we learn by making a deal with a bad player.
And at the end of the day, lessons are expensive.
That's all I can say on that one.
For sure.
But this gives people a tool.
And that's the kind of cool thing is like you can you can lay out as loose or as tight of restrictions as appropriate for your situation.
So as a lawyer, you're on the record advising for handshake agreements.
Is that your legal advice to everybody watching?
That dude said on that show is OK.
Yes, he said it's OK.
Handshake deals are OK.
There's also not the not handshake deal alternative.
And so what we wanted to do is just have it so that you don't really have to pay a lawyer.
So if you want to like you want to get your genetics to somebody else, this whole thing is for you.
Thanks.
You know, you don't you can everything could be negotiated separately.
We don't have to do any payment stuff.
It's just about tracking works of authorship and permissions.
That's that's the way that I talk about it.
Yeah.
And like I said, like I said, too, there is a time and place for everything.
Yeah. And I'm not I'm not necessarily saying that, you know, a contract is an important or it sounds like this may be like the step in between.
You know what I mean? That's kind of how I'm interpreting it.
It's the it's the free version.
Like you could hire me to do a license that's complicated and I've done it before.
That's why I came up with this idea.
Yeah. But you could also just say click a button that says grow.
You work out a price with the breeder.
You get your seeds and then you invoice in the back end.
And it just there's no lawyer involved.
Yeah. I don't think it's a bad idea at all.
I'm super interested in entry.
Yeah. So some of the players buying in like you're working with like Kevin Jodry and some other guys on this.
Right. Yeah. So there's there's big players who are well respected in the industry.
I think are all intrigued by these similar concepts.
And people can call me Jeff at Canopyright.com.
You can send me an email. I'm talking to people one on one.
No, but I talked to I feel like I'm talking to people just sort of like if you want to learn about it, you want to like talk to me.
You have to trust me to trust. Can we read off your phone number and can can you can a viewer call you up?
No, but I'm a well I'm a lawyer. So my work phone number is on the website.
It will ring on this phone. Yeah. I forward my call.
So if you can find his work number I want to.
But I mean it's just the it's just the calling a lawyer part. It's like how do you feel about it?
Time's ticking.
What did we smoke?
That was the OG.
Oh it was the same thing.
And then the rosin was fly rosin, which is actually one of the strains that I did make a deal with cookies on and it came out really good.
And we're going to drop some of the concentrate here in the next couple months.
I can't wait to check some of that.
So how is everybody partnering with cookies? Like what's the partnership relationship like you're?
So it's not a direct partnership with the relation with cookies, but Powers Up is a breeder who has a contract with cookies.
And I got permission from him to use his genetics on a handshake deal.
And they've just been communicating with them.
I'm actually supposed to meet with one of their buyers today and they're definitely interested in quite a bit of our product.
And whatever isn't, you know, we have the ability to sell on our own brand as well.
Obviously with not using their own their branding, but you know, they have the first right to refuse.
But is cookie striking deals with breeders to say we want exclusivity on some cultivar?
Potentially. First of all, I'm not a breeder and I'm not exactly sure what their business is with certain breeders.
But I know the deal that he has with these guys has been, you know, pretty inclusive.
But he does give him the parameters to like work with somebody like myself.
Yeah, I'm interested too. I don't know anybody directly or of anybody's direct deals, I should say.
But I see people cultivating for.
We'll get a couple.
Yeah.
I want to learn more about cookies and how it structures its deals with all the people it's working with.
That's our goal for the end of the day.
Let's ask some questions. I like it.
Interesting.
So stay tuned as we develop this storyline.
One thing I'm excited about is we are doing a three way collaboration with cookies at Natura.
And it's going to have it's going to be all certified organic with my products.
So cool.
I start in February.
I'm excited to see it.
Damn. So you got a lot going on these days.
I keep pushing, Michael. I keep pushing.
I know, man. And that's one of the beautiful things about Emerald Cup and being here this year is like
it seems like a regathering.
Like I haven't seen you in a couple years.
It's been a really interesting few years where a lot of people within the cannabis industry that saw each other pretty regularly on the circuit and work together.
It's true.
Have kind of gone different directions.
I think it was actually a hollow flower.
Yeah.
And what's you want to know something funny is me and Jay have worked together a bunch since then.
Really? That's awesome.
And we've become friends.
Is he still working with Glass House?
No, he's with another group.
I've been meaning to check in with him.
I've always been following you.
Because Glass House has like 10 million additional square feet under.
Yeah, it's crazy.
And I want to be like, are you still there?
No, he did leave, but he was working with a group that has a grow in Fresno.
And they did 10 acres.
Wow. So when did you move up north?
For a while he was living in Humboldt and then he got a place in San Diego and he's been going back and forth between Fresno and there.
So cool.
Maybe we'll see him walking by.
He's on a big island right now.
I'm not sure though.
It's an interesting vantage point we have here watching the main hallway between the hollow flowers and what's this other one?
The Finley Hall, I believe.
So pretty cool to watch.
The people watching from this location is fantastic.
I know him pretty well. I don't see him.
That's not him walking.
See right there?
With the pirates colors.
Right? It's refreshing.
His booth is right inside the door.
I know.
You're working with this Legacy Genetics Project and doing all sorts of other lawyerly things.
So how did you fall into the group of people you're working with right now?
I just met them through talking about cannabis data and trying to reach out to open cannabis project people.
I'm here with Humboldt Grace Foundation.
We do a call every Friday at 11.
So we talk about what they're building.
Do you live in Humboldt?
No, I live in Oakland.
But I just wanted to talk to Legacy people about this project first.
Because that's what I care about.
That's what I care about.
So that's sort of the idea behind all of this.
To make something that's going to work for the Legacy community.
To have some ownership over what's been worked on for decades.
And then sort of go from there.
And if it works, it works. And if it doesn't, fine.
I think that's a cool approach.
That's why I thought it would be cool to get all the people who are thinking about this topic and getting them to talk to each other.
Like with Caleb.
I cross paths with other people who are addressing it as well.
And there's lots of interesting ways to do it.
And there's lots of ways that you could take data and flow it through the supply chain.
So if you want to get paid if somebody buys pre-rolls of your strain.
You want to have an invoice that's payable.
That ties back to your sample that you put in your freezer.
That's possible and the technology to do it already exists.
If you have to put a barcode on every single plant, the work's already been done.
The one thing I like most about your whole idea and approach is it opens the door to collaboration.
And I'm a big fan of collaboration.
I know it's touchy whenever you start to collaborate with people.
So it's really important to have an open mind.
Can you give us an example of an idea you have of a collaboration you want to do based on what he's talking about?
With a specific breeder or grower?
Here's an example. We did a four-way collaboration on a pre-roll for this event today.
Is that what we just smoked?
No.
Can we smoke that next?
That is from flower grown from Sticky Fields, who you're really familiar with.
He's a friend of mine and a good customer of Vital Garden Supply.
He uses a lot of our products.
The hash was grown at my farm.
That's a strawberry gelato.
And then Shiloh Massive from Massive Creations.
He motivated the idea to do this infused pre-roll.
So we considered a four-way collaboration.
And then Compassionate Heart.
Compassionate Heart is a dispensary in Ukiah, which is also where my distro is.
They have the ability to infuse with hash because they have a manufacturing license.
We only have a distro, so we're not allowed to put hash in a joint.
California Roll.
I have a genius idea for a product and with my license type I can't fucking...
So we had to get creative.
It's a four-way collaboration.
It came out incredible.
So it's like you can do something that we need and we want to bring you in on the four-way.
So you're dropping those here at the cup today?
Yeah, they're here today.
They tested 40% THC.
That's an after dark joint.
Do they have an exclusivity on it? What's their part of the partner?
We made a deal just to split and we gave them a certain amount of pre-rolls and then we kept the rest.
Because we provided all the materials, they provided the service.
They said we'll do it for this many pre-rolls.
We're like fine, these are yours, these are ours.
And we're like okay, let's make sure we sell them for the same price.
And they're like no problem, let's sell them for this.
And we're like perfect.
Handshake deal.
We're doing it.
Fist pound, you know?
Dude, love it. COVID safe fist pounds.
Actually, I might have one in my pocket.
That's funny.
I've been giving them away.
They're going to be pretty high by the end of today.
By the end?
This is it. Last one in my hand.
Amazing.
So Frosty also made the hash with our product.
Massive idea.
Massive in there.
Sticky on the flour and compassionate heart on the spinning.
In vital grounds.
You got everybody in the band on there.
Let me take a look at that. I gotta see.
Mendo Massive.
You all can imagine what it looks like.
I'll give you guys the zoom in. Here we go.
Unfortunately, it's just going to be totally out of focus.
Either super tiny in focus right here or super out of focus.
But anyway.
To me, that's the kind of stuff I like to do.
Since I'm not a giant corporation, I don't have a huge budget.
But I have friends.
None of us are making a lot of money right now.
But we might as well have some fun while we're doing it.
Right. And elevate the game.
Show people.
We can work together.
My son, who is 23 years old and now in the industry.
That's insane because you look like you're 33.
51. Almost 52.
He pointed out, nobody does a four-way collaboration.
And it's true. It's hard to get four groups of people, businesses, to agree on everything.
On anything, let alone everything.
So that's an accomplishment in itself.
So you're saying the thing you're most excited to see is the avenues for collaboration.
Is this going to be a searchable profile where you can mark collaboration as...
Collaborable.
Collaborable.
I haven't gotten that far yet.
Yeah, I'm just curious.
Eventually.
Call it the Brian clause.
The Brian clause.
Perfect for the holiday season.
I mean, honestly, this is just me. I have a full-time day job.
This is my nights and weekends project.
I just think somebody had to do it.
So if you want to make a portion of it and build it out, you can name it after yourself.
Absolutely.
I don't know what I'm taking on here.
If you're willing to put in some of the effort, for sure.
And speaking of collaboration...
I thought I was just naming it right there.
There's so many people at home probably that may be interested or have things to contribute.
Being a single person, if there's good collaborative ideas...
It all starts with a farmer.
At the end of the day, you've got to do a good job.
Even if you have great genetics, you can grow great genetics really poorly.
Seen it a thousand times.
And you can grow poor genetics well and still come out better than somebody doing a poor job on good genetics.
I've seen some great training I can offer.
Yeah? That's the truth.
I see all the weed should taste good.
There he is.
The weed should taste good proof.
I like that.
It must.
Did we already talk about what you grew this year on the four to five farms?
We grew white rams.
We grew mother's milk, which is Bodie's chain.
It's really good.
I think Soul Spirit has mother's milk.
Not yet, I believe that.
And then we grew Gary Payton.
Power's up.
Thank you. It came out incredible. Tested real high.
Zero NDs on all the metals and all that.
So I'm always happy to remind people that there is an option.
You don't have to buy the $70 eighth that was grown indoor with salt.
Because somebody really tried their ass off and grew organically.
And it's putting out cleaner and better product.
Sun grown versus indoor is really fascinating right now.
That there's entire groups of terpians that aren't being developed in an indoor cultivar of the same exact genetic.
People are taking clones off the same plant, sun grown, greenhouse, indoor.
And examining the terpian profiles.
And sun grown is coming back with just a completely different level of quality.
No doubt.
And in the technique.
From the technique of growing, the technique of curing.
And that whole combination.
The quality varies as far from the spectrum as you can imagine.
That's one thing that I really notice about cannabis.
I'm sure there's varying qualities of all plants and produce or anything that you grow.
But I think cannabis is the most sensitive to the amount of love it gets.
And that may sound like hippy dippy or whatever.
But the more you put in, the more you get out.
I haven't yet to see anybody prove me differently.
No, there's an absolute energetic exchange.
And it's part of manifesting cultivars in different ways.
Neighbors grow with a lot of the same ingredients and the same climate.
But the energy, the way they apply it, it produces different product.
I really feel strongly that there's a spiritual connection between cannabis and its cultivators.
It's a dry reed, but Secret Life of Plants starts it there.
I'm sure you guys are all familiar, but Secret Life of Plants is just the tip of the iceberg.
There's a connection.
For sure. I feel way connected to plants in general.
Yeah.
I love them.
For sure.
I think I missed the second half of that.
You told me where you're growing now.
What would be something that in your imaginary world where what you love people would actually like in a consumer market?
Shops would be like, we'll take that.
It doesn't matter how long it takes to grow or flower out.
If you could be like, I want everybody to try this.
What would that be?
I like gas strains for sure.
Fuel, OG like strains.
Actually, I've been working a bunch with Massive Creations.
He's got some really cool strains right now.
I'm definitely going to grow some more commercially this year.
Is there anything that you're like, in my mind this is amazing, but the commercial market won't accept it, so therefore I'm not going to grow it.
That's that OG right there.
That's pretty much it.
Not even just OG, but I want people to be more open-minded that things don't have to be purple and have this crazy look.
There's some incredible weed and it tastes amazing and everybody deserves to give it a shot.
But they turn their nose up to it because it may not be purple and it may not have this crazy fancy name or some rapper may not have endorsed it.
But at the end of the day, any of those super hype strains right now came from what I'm talking about.
The OGs and the greener weed and the stuff that was grown in different regions.
That's what's made all the strains that are available now.
The Durban, all these strains that people are loving right now are combinations of all the strains that we used to grow.
And it's cool that that's happening, but don't turn your nose up to what was the foundation because it may not have the name or the color.
I think people need to be a little bit more open-minded as consumers.
Because at the end of the day, the old school strains are the foundation of the new school.
Yeah, that's the truth. It was all land-raised genetics at the beginning.
They were all originally developed in that place naturally.
And especially when you were talking about Appalachians, certain things just don't work in certain regions.
I was talking to Alex Honeydew earlier today, and he's in a really unique spot up there.
Far north, super close to the coast.
So what works really well there?
I know he does really good with that Cushmint. I'm not an expert in all what exactly works for him, but the conversation we were having was exactly that.
If a new strain is popular and hype, we don't know if it's going to work in our zone or not.
Until the end of the season, we don't know.
It's a toss of the dice.
But is there something that you've grown in the past couple years that you're like, it was the first time you grew it, and you're just like, we're not keeping that?
Yeah, absolutely.
Such as?
I think there's more tossers than keepers a lot of times.
I'll tell you one that actually is a shame, because I like the strain, but as a grower, it's really hard, and that's Fatso.
It's what?
The Fatso. We grew it. It tests really high. It's got really good terpene profile. It actually made really good cold water hash.
But it takes so freaking long, and it doesn't have that look that, back to that conversation I just had, it has that old school terpene profile.
Really soury, really fuely. A lot of people thought it was sour diesel.
But it doesn't have that beauty, that beautiful of an appeal in the eye.
But it tastes great, smells great, tests high, great terpene profile.
But it's hard to sell because it doesn't have that look.
As a grower, we invested a certain amount of space and energy into it, and it kind of stung us.
So you get that feeling, kind of like if you go to a restaurant and you get sick from something that you ate,
and maybe you ate a bad avocado, or the guacamole was sour, or whatever.
Next time you see guacamole, you're like, ooh.
It's kind of like that as a grower when something doesn't go your way.
You're like, ooh, I don't want to put myself in that spot again.
But I think that would strain when you fly in indoor, or maybe in a controlled greenhouse environment.
But in full sun, you need a really good climate for it. It's got to be hot and dry.
Yeah, Gary's killing it in full sun everywhere. I've seen that. Gary Baten did.
Yeah, same with us.
Sorry, Jeff, I know you've got to move on here, right? You've got other places to be.
I do want to say thanks for popping on the show.
Thanks for having me. This is wonderful.
Thank you to our legal analyst. He'll be back. Same time tomorrow.
Great talking to you, Jeff.
Thank you, brother. I just said it out. Thank you.
So give me an example of something that you think did better outdoors versus indoors.
Like maybe, I don't know, it needed the sun just to pound on it.
That Gary Baten that he was talking about, that strain is super hype right now.
And there's a lot of nice indoor around. I don't know exactly what it tests at, but it fricking tested way high.
The flavor is incredible. Powers, who gave me the strain, loves smoking the outdoor.
He's like, man, I want to smoke this. And to me, it just has more full flavor.
I don't know. A lot of that commercially grown indoor right now to me just doesn't have a whole lot of flavor at all.
So I don't know. I always crave full sun.
That's the LA market. I live in LA and I'm just like, ah.
But it's creeped up to here. It's pretty much everywhere.
I would have hoped things would be moving in the other direction of like more people being like organics.
Like I don't have my, I'm not drinking wine that's indoor hydro grown.
Thank goodness. That would be a really expensive grape.
Yeah, I mean, you know, especially after a tough year, everybody needs to support that outdoor farmer.
Because there's people, it's a hidden gem. It's like, don't judge the book by the cover.
Like buy a pre-roll first before you buy the eighth or ounce or whatever at your dispensary and try it.
Well, so we were talking earlier today about kind of, so you grow something amazing.
In your ideal world, the final person who gets it, which is someone in their house, has the best experience with what you grew.
So in your ideal world, they'd be buying a pound of it where it's all like, you know, nicely cured and holding.
Yeah. I feel like your worst, their worst experience with what you grew would be in like a pre-roll that was ground up two months ago.
And it's been sitting on a store shelf for three weeks.
I hear ya.
So I don't know what question I had. I know. Yeah, I don't remember. I don't remember what you were talking about.
But take take this wherever you want to go.
I was thinking, I know where you're going with it. And yeah, you know, it's been ground up and it's been sitting on a shelf.
But I actually learned more about pre-rolls actually now that I've been selling them.
And they actually seal up pretty freaking good in the tube.
I've noticed like some pre-rolls that we made that were kind of old and I was like, oh, we can't sell that anymore.
And then I was like, well, I should at least try it.
Are you noticing certain cultivars that do better lasting long as pre-rolls versus others where like you've like ground them up and store them each for like a month and then like smelled each one to see like, okay, that one does well.
I would like to be a little bit more controlled about those trials because that is something that we need to take into consideration.
But I haven't. But I think what I have noticed is like the conditions that they were cured in, like just knowing like, oh yeah, this we dried this time of year when there was like no moisture.
And we were able to like slow cure it, but also not have any moisture in it when it got sealed up.
So it was able to last longer. Whereas like if you grow something and you try to seal it up and there's still like moisture in the air.
That's when I noticed that the gases come out and they kind of start to like oxidize and change.
So the conditions that you cure it and the exact time that it gets packaged are I think the most important things.
I'm just me. I was like, nobody's monitoring the YouTube chat and we're probably like offline for 10 minutes.
Now Tom, leave it, leave it, leave it, leave it.
Can you check the chat? Are they still watching?
Like we're still live? All right, cool.
Live and direct at the Emerald Cup.
Hi guys.
I might be running out of things to say here soon.
I love chatting with you.
Let's do it some more.
You guys are right inside?
Yeah, come back. I'll get you a little goodie bag to get out of it.
I support that.
Appreciate it.
Thanks for having me.
I'll take that.
Bio365.
Michael.
I had a fun conversation with that guy like two years ago.
We have some mutual friends.
I think my products work really good.
I think it's touchy because I sell soil too, but soil isn't my main thing.
I sell soil because I might as well, right?
But if someone wants to use a different soil with my nudes, it's not like I put my nose up to it.
Kind of like that conversation I was having with Michael, that's kind of why I did Crucial.
I wanted this vital ground thing to be...
My real dream would be that I 100% grew all of that, but I ain't there financially.
So I need to partner with people and make it work.
And then Crucial broadens my network a little more because farmers need to help sell their weed.
And I can sell weed because I have this fucking license, right?
But I also am really true to this whole organic vital ground thing.
And I want to develop that in its own way.
So that's my... whatever that's worth.
Yeah, I love it.
Alright, I'll come in when I take a break.
How's this haul versus... have you checked that one out?
I mean, I think there's a produce in both.
Yeah, I've gotten to that one. I haven't gotten over here yet.
Okay, so Tom, grab this one.
So give me your first reaction to this brand.
Did you hear the story of the branding?
So it's basically like four small players coming together to create this pre-roll that they launched at this event.
So yeah, I'm not going to retell the story well because I forget half of it.
But one of them grew the flower, one of them made the hash, one of them had a license they needed, one of them is a dispensary.
That's what I'm talking about.
And it's all on like handshake deals like let's do this and they made it happen.
Well, you know, you don't make a package like that.
Like, you know, you have to commit to doing that.
So the handshakes worked.
But I assume that's basically...
Would you like to smoke that?
Yeah, absolutely.
Later today. Is that ours to do? That's awesome.
So what was he saying about organic? What was your takeaway?
Where'd everyone go?
Where'd our show hosts go? My God.
Who's the show host?
I see all these people I recognize.
Uh, I'm pretty high.
That's okay. That's fine.
That's good.
Who should we grab?
I left my jar of weed.
I was just about to ask him whose weed that was.
The small one.
The big one is Mike's.
That's what I thought.
That's some lead I grew.
Can I take one for each of us?
Yes.
So what is it?
Come sit with us. Grab a mic.
Yes, I do.
Tom, where are you going?
You come over here.
Alright.
Let me go check the cameras.
Alright, so what did you grow?
This is called Beach Wedding.
It's a cross of...
Wedding cake and chopped cookies.
Look at that. He's doing double duty.
He's not only our audio engineer, he's now...
Man of many talents.
So you can lock it.
You can...
There we go.
And this was grown all organically with highly amended soil.
The soil brand was called...
Available at Emerald Valley Garden in Eugene, Oregon.
Okay.
And so where did you get the genetics from?
I popped them from some seeds that a friend gave me.
I do not remember the name of the seed company off the top of my head.
But we got another variety from them called...
Honey Suckle or Honey Dew.
That was another really good one.
But very impressive variety.
So how much of a...
Are you a...
I am a medical gardener.
I grow for mostly my mother.
But I've been...
Do you live up in Oregon?
Yes I do. I live in Eugene, Oregon.
You're in Eugene.
Yeah. You know, and I just have...
Currently I just have a couple of small tents.
Can you pull that up a little bit?
Oh, sorry. I currently just have a couple of small 4x4 tents with...
With a...
Some simple LEDs.
You know, and I'm usually pulling anywhere from...
With this crop I did...
Nine 7-gallon pots edge to edge.
Grew them up about 3 quarters of a foot and flowered them.
You know, which took about 10 days, 15 days.
And they were done flowering in about 8 1⁄2 weeks.
And my average was about 3 1⁄2, 4 ounces a plant.
How long have you been cultivating?
I've been...
How long have you been cultivating?
I've been cultivating for a little over 21 years.
Since I was 17.
And are you an Oregon boy?
Yes I am. I was born in Eugene, Oregon.
And I was raised in the Mid-Valley in Monmouth.
So tell us a little bit about your experience with genetics.
And just over the years.
I was really lucky.
I ended up getting connected with a gentleman who owned a grocery store.
And he had a lot of really nice plants.
And those were all the plants I got to start with.
And they were...
From seed?
No, from cutting.
He had had them for years and years.
He lived in Portland for a very long time.
And he owned a music shop.
And thought it would be a good idea to open a grocery store in the early 2000s in Salem.
And yeah.
Some of the strains that we had were the airborne G13 cutting.
We had that one for years.
The G13 airborne.
We had one called...
We called it the Nanny.
It was a Northern Lights Afghani cross.
You know, a simple Cia green strain.
And a God Bud from Jordan of the Island.
That was the first pack of seeds I ever ordered.
So have you been coming here like every year?
No, this is my first time here.
Really?
Yeah, you know, my boss...
I work for BioAg.
And we were at the CannaCon.
Or the...
Yeah, MJ BizCon.
And we found out about this.
And I contacted my buddy Eric who handles the Ag.
I can't handle the cannabis side of the business.
And we wanted to see if it would be good to come down here and have a booth for next year.
What is it called, the company?
BioAg.
And what do you do?
We sell biostimulants.
And it goes with your fertilizer to make it work a little bit better.
So Eric seems like much more of a stoner here than I envisioned him when I first saw him.
Oh yes.
Where did we do that one? In Oklahoma?
Yeah, that was in Oklahoma.
He seemed much more buttoned up.
He has his...
Yes, in Oklahoma he was very buttoned up.
I wasn't imagining that.
He was buttoned up for the most part.
He had khaki pants and the collared shirt when the company nodded.
He's used to going to larger Ag. shows where there's more tractors than there are plants.
And that's just kind of how you look at those shows.
Now he can be a little bit more...
Preferable Eric.
Absolutely. Be a little bit more like Eric.
Which is good.
So we're getting the real Eric.
Yes, yes.
So what do you think?
I'm really enjoying the place.
The amount of high quality outdoor is absolutely mind-blowing.
I haven't seen this much good outdoor in eons.
I love to see good sun-grown pot.
In Oregon, it all depends on the year.
If we get a good year, everything turns out great.
But we've got a rule where we grow...
You can harvest early with a little bit of mold or you can harvest late with a lot.
But either way, you're harvesting with some mold.
Well that's a great message that you're seeing.
Like really quality outdoor.
The quality here has been tip-top.
I'm being told to speak into the mic.
Speak into the mic.
I'm not following my own.
So what's something you want to...
By the way, what was this again?
That's called Beach Wedding.
It's a cross of wedding cake and chopped cookies.
What's your name again?
Josh.
Josh is a friend of mine actually.
We've been working on a project for some years.
Actually, it's been mostly my friend who will go unnamed.
He's a medical gardener in the Salem area.
And we've been working on bringing back a cherry AK.
I ended up finding a cutting in Eugene from 1998 and it was pretty beat up.
And we've been slowly bringing it back.
And I had an old pack of AK seeds that I had gotten in 2000.
And so we took a male from that and crossed it with the original cherry.
And then we looked for a cherry smelling male.
It took us quite some time to find it.
But he eventually found it.
And then he re-crossed that with the original.
And now we've got cherry AK seeds.
I would like some of those seeds.
I will give you my card and we will talk later.
I would like to get those seeds out to the masses.
Excellent.
So far, we've popped them.
We've had little to no herming.
Our male to female ratio has been relatively good.
Around 40 to 50 percent.
Which is pretty good for a first time go.
With a plant that's sold.
There's Eric.
I was just talking about how buttoned up you looked at the Oklahoma event.
You can sit.
There's a mic right there.
Oh yeah, come on in.
Have you been shopping seeds here too?
Checking out the seed menu?
We've got an appointment with some people later this...
Oh, here we go.
Oh yeah, look at that.
Alright, we got it all worked out.
This guy is like a problem solving scientist.
No, I...
Solving problems is partially what we do at BioAg.
I was at the Washington Tree Fruit Show on Monday.
And Tuesday and Wednesday was really...
And how were you dressed for that one?
Exactly like Oklahoma.
I dressed like a farmer usually.
But Oklahoma I was like a nice shirt.
It was my first time on a...
Or at a cannabis event.
And I was like I don't know how we dress.
Because usually I do like scientific.
I go to like American Society of Horticulture Sciences.
And the Western Society of Weed Sciences.
I don't think the earrings were in, right?
The earrings were not in at that show.
No, yeah, I take them off usually.
And he's like I like it because we leave.
And he's like I don't think that guy does dab.
And I'm like oh no, I...
Don't make assumptions by lying nerds.
Nerds dab too.
That was when you guys kept going behind the...
Yeah, I don't think...
Yeah, that was the fun time in Oklahoma.
When the after party we were going to go to it.
And all of a sudden over the television...
A tornado warning goes off.
And I'm like oh, I'll look out in the parking lot.
And there's a flash flood going on in the parking lot.
I'm like I'm not going to go to the after party tonight.
I'm just going to stay in.
And we'll avoid the Oklahoma weather.
All the weed people in Oklahoma.
Isn't that tornado country?
Yeah, that is tornado country.
That was tornado season.
It was summer.
Wasn't there just one in...
Oh, Kentucky, yeah.
That was brutal.
Yeah, it was a whole bunch of them.
And it killed a bunch of people.
It was real sad.
I didn't know Kentucky got lots of tornadoes.
I wouldn't think so.
You know, that global climate change is affecting everybody now.
Cool.
I came back to find you.
Oh, cool.
So I live in an apartment.
But I have grown and my mom has grown with me.
And we grew at the home.
So in the basement.
Where is your mom?
She's in Sacramento now.
So she doesn't grow anymore.
Is that where you grew up?
No, I grew up in Spokane.
So Spokane.
We have better weed.
We have better weed.
So basically, I think a lot of the Washington weed is grown in Spokane.
Because the electricity price is a lot cheaper in the state.
And the warehousing price is cheaper.
And so a lot of the larger scale, I-502, and even the medical days, the larger scale grows.
And the industry is really well established on the east side.
Outdoor too, because we have a dry climate compared to the wet Seattle climate.
I was going to say, Washington strikes me as very wet.
It does.
Once you're past the Cascades, it's desert.
And then as you get closer to Idaho, it gets wetter again.
So the water gets trapped by the mountains.
So you will get rains.
But it's pretty dry.
Most of the winters are pretty mild.
It's like a drum solo.
So they do grow a lot of bud out there.
And they have a lot more sun.
So it's higher.
Like what's the elevation?
Or I'm just saying latitude-wise.
They get more sun.
The further north you go, the more summer sun you get.
Yeah.
It's a huge advantage there.
Because they do huge operations that use tremendous amounts of energy.
And they're paying like two cents a kilowatt.
Like nothing.
It's like when they told us about LA, my mind was blown.
The amount you guys pay in California is just insane.
It's a different system though too.
Recreationally, the laws just...
Because I moved from Washington to Oregon and now we're in California.
But it really does change.
The stores are completely different.
It's more of a monopoly system.
Oregon's more of a small grower.
Like Oregon you can sniff the jars, Washington you can't.
Years ago I went up to Seattle.
And then I went over to Spokane to do a story on a grower.
And it was still like 215 days here.
Like it wasn't 64 yet.
And I didn't want to. It's like a chain up there.
And I was like, oh my god.
Because it was just a wall full of...
Right? And we didn't have that here yet.
And full of flour.
And I didn't know... How could I know what anything was?
And I couldn't smell.
That wasn't really... So I was totally dependent upon the budget.
Trust. Yeah.
And it was like really off-putting to me.
So I see it two different ways.
So I like the idea of going into a dispensary and being able to look at different new varieties every day.
Every week. Everything changes. It smells different. You can test it.
But from the... I think this goes back more to the medicinal days.
For the medicals, you want consistency.
You want to be able to go to any shop you want in the state and get a similar product.
The middle ground is where you want to find that.
And the other thing is that that time...
We were talking about this in retail where they might be weighing it out.
That minute that you have between the customer and the buy tender.
That's really an important minute. And we're losing it.
That's just what I'm saying.
That's one of the things I love about this particular function is you got the farmer's market.
You can go and talk with the guy.
But back in the day, a few years ago, you'd walk in and it was a real farmer's market.
The medical day. Yeah.
We had medical markets.
We could do this every Sunday in LA.
Farmer's markets?
It's like this crowd. It's like 30 degrees warmer.
By the way, we need a space heater.
Absolutely. That would be amazing.
It is not warm out here.
Hopefully, things will flush each other out.
There's always going to be a space for micro group.
There's always going to be a place for the little guy.
Local craft brew will have a premium, hopefully.
They just got to try all that much harder.
I feel like to start, we could do stuff where I want to do with the hash guys.
I kind of want to do stuff where each of them, like you grew a couple pounds.
Maybe you could bring it to like a almost like a BYO bud with a bunch of friends.
And everybody can kind of like trade and share or sell like a farmer's market.
Yeah.
But I think if you start it that way,
you build momentum for it to almost them to be like, we got to do these legally.
We got to fast track the legality of these because they're already doing them.
It's almost to like push them to do it, make it legal faster.
We were talking the other day in an interview.
The conversation was whether it was the Starbucks model would prevail or it with cannabis or.
Starbucks or which is a retailer or someone with a brand.
Joe's coffee.
No, no, no.
Oh, but that does remind me.
Budweiser.
Yeah. Like like a beer model where where cannabis is available everywhere.
Yeah.
Even over. I mean, a grocery store, right?
Like a grocery store model.
Exactly.
Or a Starbucks model where it's lounges and you have to go there and you can only get it there.
And the prevailing thing seems to me that that seems to be that the latter is going to prevail rather than lounges.
And, you know, that just means it's a totally different model.
I see that not happening that one day.
Sure, you're going to have to show your ID, but you'll be able to purchase cannabis at a supermarket.
Yeah, it's like it's like alcohol where it's like some states you have liquor stores, some states you can buy in the Safeway.
Exactly.
It's with the organic weeds, with the organic food in the organic food section.
Well, that blew my mind when I first saw CBD in the grocery store.
I first saw CBD oils in the health food store at the Roths.
Kermudgeon.
Yes, old angry farmers.
One day you could. You could walk in and be like Kermudgeon.
Like the two old guys from...
Stadler and Waldorf.
Yes, sir.
Two of my favorite characters of all time.
Norm and Cliff.
I'm relying on people texting me to be like you guys are...
I think Peter has frozen everybody.
This is terrible timing because I'm eating really, really spicy noodles and I feel like I'm about to cry.
So I will try and, you know, hopefully entertain you for a moment.
Holy crap. Oh, they're out.
I mean, like those crazy, like really spicy hot noodles.
And I wasn't expecting to have to cover right at this exact point.
I'm crying, guys. It's so spicy.
Oh, my God.
I hope you're all enjoying the Emerald Cup.
And that you're all having a wonderful time.
That's why I'm here to help out and make sure that things stay up and running.
And luckily they are.
They're getting everything up and going.
Yeah, I'm surviving, Oedas.
I've got some of my...
Oh, man.
I don't want to like drink too quickly, but I've got some of my signature passion fruit infused soda.
My signature passion fruit infused soda to help me survive.
So I will entertain you.
While I message him to let him know that things have gone down.
And I'll pop up at any point in time.
Oh, anybody...
So what has been the most...
I came in a little bit late.
I hope everybody's doing well.
Might as well blow up the chat right now.
What's everybody smoking on?
I'll pack a bowl at the same time.
Fuck me, man.
Whew.
Spicy.
No, don't drink milk.
Taking these types of actions are poor choices.
What you've got to do is keep your mouth dry.
And just let it go away.
If you get your mouth wet and add a bunch of water to it, you'll keep the spice going.
Trust me, there's science behind it.
And I'm just dealing with the spice right now.
So it's very hard to explain.
But yes.
Oh, it's coming back up.
I'm sorry, guys.
So yes, it's now coming back up.
I am rolling up some strawberry banana at this point in time.
Here we go. He's back.
And they're coming.
So there's Midwest BioAg.
And so lately, over the last nine months,
I've just...
Like these interviews have fallen into my lap of the CEOs of all the MSOs in the country.
Like the top multi-state operators.
And some of them are publicly traded.
Some of them are private.
But also ancillary companies.
I interviewed the CEO of Keef last week, which was really fun to do.
Which is an infused beverage.
You get to do interviews.
Interviews. And I'm writing these large articles about them.
So the Keef one is up right now.
It went up a few days ago.
And I love doing this because I have a real great curiosity for all of these subjects.
I do my research and then I sit down with them.
And I always come...
If they're publicly traded, there's certainly...
I ask business questions. These are business interviews.
But I always come at it from a person.
And they always know I'm a patient.
And that I'm a consumer.
And that I'm for small businesses.
And that...
So I usually ask questions about that in one way or another.
And then I don't ever...
I mean, it's about...
What it's about for me is trying to understand where this chief executive of often really big companies...
Where are they coming from? What are they doing?
Where are you going? Why?
And so that's it.
Cool.
I mean, I enjoy doing it.
And people are reading them. So what else?
So the acid story.
I told it.
Why do you have to tell it again? Because we're offline.
Traffic.
I'm going to have an hour at it.
I'm going to go use the bathroom.
Thanks, man.
Nice meeting you.
We're taking off.
Okay.
I'll wait for the acid story.
Yes, it was good to meet you guys too.
There are people watching right now.
What's that?
There are people watching.
They're watching me in full court.
My email address is on there.
I wasn't supposed to be able to relax.
Where did Michael go?
Did we lose Michael?
Oh, I think John was going to get me food, which would be amazing.
Actually, I would be very happy if someone showed up with food right now.
I'll get you a hold of my boss.
Okay.
So wait, I thought you were going to listen to the acid story.
Oh my God.
So Tom, you were going to go see Traffic that night in New York, and you went out of the city with your mom, right?
Yes, I was going to go.
What kind of car did your mom drive at the time?
Was it a Plymouth? Was it an Oldsmobile? Was it a Buick?
I don't remember. It might have been a Jeep. It could have been a Jeep. My father always got Jeeps.
You were like 16?
This would have been 1970 or 71.
Nice.
Playing in New York.
New York was the epicenter. Fucking epicenter.
I saw everything from jazz to classical to everything.
So that was a great perk.
Musicals.
Musicals. I love fucking musicals.
So Man of La Mancha, I saw a lot.
I'm probably like a million years. I saw a lot.
Dreamgirls, I saw.
Where were you going to see them? Where were they playing?
Madison Square Garden.
We were going to go to Madison Square Garden, so half an hour out of the city, the car breaks down, and then it's not fixable.
No, no, no, no, wait. But you're glossing over the good parts.
Because I told it and no one wants to know. I'm sitting there. It's a half a tab of orange.
Do you want to hear this story?
It's a half a tab of orange barrel acid.
Everyone knew what it was. And I took half, right?
Because even.
While in the car with your mom, thinking that you perfectly timed it.
We're half an hour out.
You get in the city, kick in after you left your mom.
I'm going to meet my buddy Timmy. We're going to go see the show.
This is a critical part of the story.
Yeah, and it was a critical part of that evening as well.
I made another decision.
If you waited three more minutes, you would not have made the same decision.
I would have been like.
I had a similar.
Wait, no, no, no, finish it.
So the car breaks down and we have to take the train in, right?
This is a long. It's like the rest of the evening.
Me and my mother, which is like, that's fun right there.
So I knew I was going to come.
So there's no, I'm not going to throw up.
You know, I'm not going to.
But it started hitting you.
So obviously it started coming on and I just said to myself,
which was terribly easy, just maintain she's not going to know.
There's no reason for her to know.
And she didn't.
She didn't glean anything, which says something about my normal personality, I would presume.
So I remember.
That's it.
I liked it.
I liked it the first time.
That's why I was hoping he'd give the full version.
But now I remember my baby mama number one.
Had a business meeting in San Francisco and that we had to go to.
It was for a skin care company and we made a pit stop at my friend Steve's house to hang out with him and his wife.
And like, we're, you know, afternoon.
I think dinner was at like seven.
And so we're talking and like Steve's like, you want to have an edible?
I'm like, yeah, I'll have an edible.
And then we're like, oh, I'll have a baby mama.
And I'm like, yeah, I'll have an edible.
We both eat an edible.
Like, 45 minutes later, he's like, I'm gonna have another one.
You want another one? I was like, yeah, I'll have another one.
So.
No, I did. I did.
So we're like, oh, shit.
OK, it's time for us to go, like, make our 7 p.m. dinner.
It was like with some.
I know this is younger than you, but probably like 55, 60 year old guy.
So it's like, you know.
You want to be like it's like having dinner with someone's parents or something.
But so we go and.
Sorry, our car was in a parking garage in San Francisco and for some reason,
like all the San Francisco parking garages closed for the night.
And you're like, fuck, if I don't get my car up before you closes, it's stuck there all night.
So I went to go.
So we had an Uber bring us and I dropped her at the restaurant, which was on the way to me.
So we wouldn't be late.
And then I kept going in the Uber to go get our car, to bring it back and park it in front of the restaurant.
And it was as I was starting to drive the car that it just like started getting warm and fuzzy.
And like it just like and then it was just like a wave as I like pulled up to a parking spot by the restaurant.
When I got in the restaurant, it was like.
I was out of my body. I was so high.
It was it was like I'd start talking and then eight words in be like, I totally can't remember what I was talking about.
But everybody's looking at me right now.
And I can't just like I got to gracefully bring the conversation, be like you take the conversation.
You couldn't say I ate an edible.
He was a Mormon.
And a Mormon edible.
And so we're having this business meeting.
And and my girlfriend was like she kept like like digging.
She's like, you're so like.
And I was like and all I could think of the entire dinner was my only goal.
Like this is guest to like the keeping your shit together.
And I'm sure the guy was that her boyfriend is fucking idiot.
You know, I don't want.
But I the entire time, all I could think of was I feel like I'm literally just going to drop off my chair and pass out on the floor of this restaurant.
And I'm like, just don't let me do that.
You were probably you were probably like frozen and it was like totally honest.
But now I don't want to air dirty laundry, but didn't you tell me that this whole co-business thing didn't like end up very well and you like built up her business, but she didn't give you credit for it or anything.
And that I'm just wondering if it was events like this that maybe, you know.
Yeah, but I also did all this stuff where I was like striking all the business deals.
Despite things like this, you were to deal with everything from like operations, like warehouse, pick, pack and ship, dealing with like Chinese, like, you know, we had to deal with Chinese, you know, people to make the bottles like we need 50,000 or 100,000 or whatever of this, you know, this is this branding on it.
And then like dealing with the the formulators.
So you have, you know, different labs that will just basically white label and you can like a good formulator will sit down with you and you kind of talk about ideas of like what what ingredients like, you know, my story is blue lotus, white tea, soy.
So like this kind of has to like it's the like what ingredients can we use and I want to go in this direction and then can you fill out all like the additional ingredients by like you did all of them.
Yeah, well, with.
So like the formulating she did all the other stuff was like basically me.
I mean, I remember like we struck a deal with shop NBC and I had to pack up pallets of inventory exactly to their specifications.
She's like, should I had never done before?
And I'm like, like, fucking day.
All right. Like, let me master this.
This skill.
But yeah, so so basically like it went, you know, it was like about to go bankrupt.
I don't know. Probably should be telling this story.
But and then I got it up.
I never got paid no equity.
So so it's a typical story.
But it was a yes, it was a lesson learned about people in life.
But yeah, a scorned woman.
But so wait, is is is Michael over there?
Tell Michael he's on.
Oh, there he is.
There you are.
Think of who you want to talk to.
Think of who you want to talk to.
Yeah.
All right, guys, I got to take off.
What's that?
All right, you do it.
I'm glad you stayed for the acid story.
He didn't tell what he told it to you guys the first time when we're off.
All right.
It was much better than when he told it on camera.
Right.
Yeah.
I touch base.
Yeah.
And I'd be psyched if she started bringing people over from the Willow
Creek Cannabis Alliance.
Yeah, I want to start pulling far.
I told a bunch of farmers.
I was like, just bring some weed over and we'll roll it up and smoke it.
Is Peter's not leaving the couch.
Peter's getting a.
Oh, I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Yeah.
Now Peter's getting.
Are you hungry?
Do you want some food?
Well, yes.
The answer to that question is absolutely.
And a space heater.
Oh, yeah.
Or more clothing, more layers.
Oh, my God.
Is Leo.
Leo, what have you been up to since we last saw you four hours ago?
Time lapse.
Got it.
Leo, come sit next to me and grab a mic.
Tell me about what you grew at home this season.
What was in the home garden?
I grew some GMO and some grease monkey.
Okay.
Nothing too crazy.
No seed plants.
All clones.
But.
And why do you want to grow those ones?
Because they make.
The stream.
Hey, how's it going?
There's my wife.
The timing is working out very interestingly, everybody.
Oh, look at there.
There's my double jet.
There you go.
I'm sorry, honey.
She didn't.
She wasn't expecting to be on camera.
If you guys get.
So, yeah, it went down for a second.
There's the arm.
If you see the ninja behind me, it's my wife grabbing her bong and having a.
So going well, unfortunately, we had a little bit of a.
Bump in the road there.
But they should be back any moment now.
Just a second.
How do you enjoy this strawberry banana, babe?
I got a thumbs up.
She's not willing to talk on camera.
But apparently.
But it is what it is.
Maybe my terrible blurple lightbulb.
I'm going to have to get rid of that.
I'm going to have to get rid of that.
Maybe my terrible blurple lights in the background.
So, yes, Emerald Cup is going well.
I am enjoying my smoke.
I am not dealing with spicy death mouth.
That.
Death mouth anymore.
They should be back any moment.
Peter is messaging me.
Anybody who who are you?
Who would you guys be most excited to see on the show?
Like, who do you guys want to see that will be at the Emerald Cup that hasn't been on the show yet?
We're doing two days of this.
So I imagine we're going to be keep rolling.
Good thing Peter's comfortable in nice red pants.
Seth Rogan might be.
I don't know.
I don't know how many celebrities go to the Emerald Cup, but it should be a good one.
Kevin Jodry.
Yes, hopefully we'll get Kevin Jodry on.
He comes to the breeder panel if you happen to be there.
So those that while they're while you're all around and doing everything, we will be back up and rolling.
DVG there.
What about Greg Green?
Not too sure.
Greg.
I don't know.
My wife is just saying random celebrities names now.
I think.
I don't know.
The Canada's Breeders Bible by Greg Green.
We didn't get that one.
Greg Green.
Greg Green.
Oh, I don't know.
I don't know if he would be there.
But okay.
Yes, Greg Green is someone in the cannabis space.
They've that is that is definitely true.
Thank you for she's literally standing next to my cannabis book and she just likes to read off names of them.
Oh, shoot.
But yes, so it should be fun.
Hopefully we can get back online.
Peter has met.
And now I'm accidentally voice to texting him back.
So we should be up and rolling any moment.
We do have fire is fire tomorrow morning.
So make sure to shout out and come for a visit to see RJ.
Be very fun.
There's some awesome announcements coming up later this week.
So don't go anywhere and make sure to stick around and be part of the conversation.
My hair is a mess.
I went to the Christmas market today and that was a lot of fun.
Very expensive, but a lot of fun.
I got to bring my whole family there with a little one.
Yeah.
You know what?
It's ridiculously expensive for stuff like this in Canada.
It's just it's just redundant.
Would have much preferred to be down at the Emerald Cup with family.
Bring a little one running around.
I'm sure she'd have a wonderful time.
Wouldn't she?
My wife is cringing at me.
My my my daughter would run around.
No, it's like an indoor event.
It's more smoke.
It's more like people smoking and stuff like that.
Not for kids.
Yeah, she would run around like any shit with her head.
I got two little ones.
The youngest one is only a few months old.
So unfortunately, four months.
Four months now.
So unfortunately, we're unable to go down and join.
But hopefully next year we'll be able to be there and join the entire crew that's down there.
They should be connecting momentarily.
Sungrow.
We'll have to do it.
Jorge Cervantes.
Yeah, I haven't seen him in a while.
Elevate seeds.
Make taquitos.
I don't know what that is.
Can you try that one again?
I don't know if I'm saying it wrong or if I'm just not.
It's a new form of literacy that I'm not aware of.
Blue Sky Vienna.
My wife has space.
He's apparently.
I don't know what that means.
But yes, it should be a wonderful day.
How old is our son again?
Awesome.
So it should be fun.
They're just trying to reconnect.
So unfortunately, I have my grow up set up a little bit weird.
So next intermission, I'll have to have this set up a little bit better to be able to show you what's going on in my grow box.
Because there isn't really that availability.
Now I wonder.
Where's the jar?
You guys want to see some ugly weed?
Do you have my ugly weed?
Like the ugliest weed.
I don't know if you guys can even.
Yeah, it's hideous.
But it's super tasty.
Okay.
Ugly is as ugly does.
Ugly is as ugly does.
Are you trying to say I'm ugly, dear?
No, I'm not.
My wife's burning me.
But anyways.
So.
Should be some good smoke.
I'm excited to hear what strains come forward.
There's a lot of good sign and kind of the representation of what kind of we're going to see ahead for genetics.
In these type of events, there's always something fun to see.
There is Fire is Fire tomorrow.
Let's see what else we have planned for the week.
We have the Dank Hour on Tuesday.
Breeders Corner on Monday.
Dank Hour on Tuesday is going to be with Manny Da Silva of Forest Farms.
We went through and did a tour of earlier.
So if you have time later tomorrow or whenever you do, hop over and check that out.
It's about a three hour tour.
That we go through his flower room.
So he's going to be doing multiple different runs.
He has 58.
52 different genetics, different hunted cultivars, like different varieties that he has run in the room.
So, I mean, if you want to see a whole bunch of flowers, unfortunately, well, fortunately, we got to do that.
But we're going to be doing a lot of different things.
So we're going to be doing a lot of different things.
So, I mean, if you want to see a whole bunch of flowers, unfortunately, well, fortunately, we got to do that.
We'll be doing it again.
And hopefully I'll be able to go for a visit anytime.
Anybody that's in BC, Canada here that wants to get together actually and do some shoots and show some flower, let me know.
I'm always good to go.
My wife running off.
She's like, I'm going to smoke your weed in there, mom.
And then she does this to me every time.
Okay, so look at this.
This is my spot.
It's a little bit cornered up and it's a little bit small.
I got my bait.
I got everything that I need.
But the grinder, the grinder I can't reach.
And she does this every time.
I've got the weed.
I've got my thing.
And every time she'll just like, I can't even reach it if I get up.
I have to get it go all the way around.
Oh, my God.
My life is so difficult sometimes, man.
I tell you, it's just horrendous.
I should probably show you guys some plants while we're at it, because I know you're probably wanting to look at that too.
And you probably don't want to see my ugly ass fan that needs to be scrubbed up.
Well, they get everything hooked up.
I think they have a few things going on.
This way I don't have to get blasted by purple light all day long.
Oh, my. Sorry.
You guys don't need to see that.
My apologies.
And we should be coming up.
I like the plants.
Yes.
So we have a lot of fun stuff, actually, that we can run through and talk about.
There is.
I don't know if you're on, but if you're on, brother, let me just double check.
Make sure your name's on here.
He's there on Instagram.
And let me just look it up.
Absalom Farms.
I don't know if you're there or here or where you are.
But if I turn this off, I've got quite a few going.
Hey, Google, turn on other lights.
Disco party in here.
If you guys want to see.
I do have some other fun stuff going on as well, since we got a little bit of time to burn.
Sorry about the heater thingamajigger.
Doing that nice view, daddy.
Yes, I appreciate it.
So again, we are live at the Emerald Cup.
Peter and the gang are just working on a couple of things in the background.
So that's why I'm here is to fill in these little gaps.
And to like, you know, harass you guys, maybe make a couple jokes.
Apparently you guys got me last time with some really hot noodles.
So Absalom Farm was really cool to send me.
Now, I knew you all have seen my Acapulco Gold and actually right here is one of those plants.
And there's another one over here in the corner that are growing quite well.
They'll be growing in the next area, too.
So but right here and these four, one, two, three, four.
And I can actually bring them a bit closer.
I'll bring this one a little bit closer because it's easier to grab.
Is actually some Bodhi seeds, Landrace, Heirloom Acapulco Gold.
So the idea and they're regular.
So the idea is I'm going to try and find a nice quality father.
Or if I find a really good mother, I'll do a fem cross if she's stable.
And bring that into my Barney Farms Acapulco Gold and have a little bit of plant.
We need some weed plant in the camera.
She's the star. Yes, I will get some more.
I can actually bring up a second one.
How's it going, Cheddar Bob?
Welcome back. My phone is always dying a little bit.
Stream yard, go.
Hey, Google, play Lo-Fi.
Change my camera.
Well, there we go. And we're back.
Oh, almost back.
No, that's not. We're back. This is my second time.
We'll do that. So luckily.
You'll do this.
And you can all see.
With some of my I'm sorry.
Hello.
If you can hear me, which you should be able to hear me just fine.
And go through. So these are a little bit stressed out.
So I let you get stress test to see how they roll out.
I've got four of those. Peter is working on it.
He's got to get some more weed smoke and stuff like that.
So no. So I have mum.
So I've refreshed them recently. So this is my lemon headband.
I'm doing a few velvet sky there.
And the mums have been refreshed on this side.
You can't see super great. I'll have to set up some other cameras for those as well.
But yeah. So these are the Aco Poco gold that I mentioned earlier.
So again, we are just burning some time while the crew works on setting up at the Emerald Cup live.
It is a hell of a show that's happening so far.
These are really cool. So they're a red beard.
They're not red beard. They're a red onion.
So they're a red green onion. So they grow like green onion.
But when they're little and they're green, you know, where you do usually have the white part.
They're more red. So they're quite small.
I have some larger ones, but they're not quite at the point of changing color.
We're in a greenhouse here in Canada.
So we have the Aco Poco gold here, which we talked about a little bit before.
A lot of hard main lining has been done.
It's been a little bit hard keeping the temperatures up.
Shout out to Dutch Bloom as well.
These are a cross of a black wap gold.
And then there's the Aco Poco gold.
Aco Poco gold.
And then you can see these are the Velvet Sky from In-House Genetics.
I know they're tightly packed there, but they're doing really, really, really well.
They're kind of the intermediate plants that are in here for the hunt.
And there's about three varieties that have come out really, really good.
I'm super happy with.
So we're going to be running those in the next few runs.
Yeah, they're just little. They're all just little.
They're not ready to go quite yet.
It's still a little bit early.
And you know what?
Fortunately, what we can probably do as well is what I'll do is this.
They can go in.
Add to stream, go like this.
And what I can do too is I will grab for all of you guys to check out.
We'll hop into the flower tent to burn some time while the guys are getting ready to go.
I hope you all doing well.
Do you guys like the garden journeys?
Let me know what you're thinking in the comments below.
And again, we're just on a little intermission while they get things reset at the Emerald Cup.
So again, we will grab that.
Open it up.
My wife's bong.
She'll kill me if I break it.
All right. Let's open that up then.
More. Ha ha.
My audio was not coming through anymore, was it?
I was talking about what was in my tent and everything.
And I was like, why is nobody talking to me?
Oh, thank you.
I appreciate it.
Yeah. So we got a pretty happy run.
I was chatting about the cover crop.
And on the left here, we have a high blend of clover and sweet pea that have kind of pretty much taken over on the ones that are finishing up.
And these are actually coming down in a few days.
So I'll be taking all of these guys down on Monday, which is really exciting.
So I'll do lots of videos for that one.
If you all can hear me, hopefully you should be able to.
So, yeah, that's that's coming down.
Beautiful, beautiful.
And then this is that lemon cush.
It's pretty early, but.
It's looking pretty nice.
It's only halfway there.
And then again, we have the clover blend that's heavy on clover.
And then this side we have a larger blend of stuff.
It's also getting to the end and getting pretty root bound, getting closer to root bound.
They're only in three gallon pots.
So the cannabis typically overpopulates everything else.
By the end here, I'm trying to get it timed so that you can harvest onions and stuff like that.
So because I like I mentioned earlier, I have some of these red beard onions.
And we'll take we'll take them and I'll actually because they're about 130 days that they can go.
You can take them in about a week or two before you pop them in a flower and insert them into the soil.
Kind of as a midway plant.
And they're a lot of fun to go to, which is really, really, really good.
I'm going to set this down for just a moment.
And you can all see my camera pointing at my camera.
So yeah, I'm just trying to keep the variety up and everything going as much as possible.
I'm not too sure how we're doing over there.
So we're going to remove that in and add that camera there.
So as you can see, we're doing well.
I think it's time for a smoke as well.
I'm going to do some strawberry banana.
What do I use for newts?
So there's I use salts, but I also use a blend of organic fertilizers.
So there's there's like a layering technique that I do.
And I also do hydroponic at the same time.
So it's like it's container culture, but borderlining on trying to be organic using humus and fulvics and coca core and the blend that I do.
I'm able to like get a full rhizosphere.
So it's there's a whole system to it.
And I look forward to sharing it all with you bit by bit, mile by mile during the garden journeys that we have coming up.
I'm here in Canada, so we don't have a huge amount of space.
There's actually passion fruit infused soda that I make from scratch, which is a lot of fun.
We'll have to do that.
I think Cheddar and I were talking.
Yeah, come on, come on, Cheddar Bob.
Hop on over.
There's my daughter in the background.
Hey, go, go, go.
Can I? Hey, can we get some?
Make sure my kid isn't running out too much.
Yeah, Cheddar Bob, hop on over.
I'll shoot you a message in the background right now.
Chest slap.
To I don't know if you have the link for that, but I'm pretty sure I could just send it to you.
I'm sending it to your Instagram now, and then we can press some hash together while we wait for them to come back and keep things going.
So that way it'll be fun.
Where the hell are you in my chat?
They are.
Go ahead and check your Instagram there, brother.
So next or this one or the following one, one of these times we're going to have Cheddar Bob on here to press some rosin, which is awesome.
And I want to smoke them.
Hey, HM, can we get it?
Like, can people like I don't know if there's a hand symbol or something.
Raise your hand if you're Canadian.
I would just love to know if there's that many people on here are Canadian.
It's always fun to find them, which is really good.
It's a salt and get some sun London.
I wish I could.
You want to come to Canada and come in here?
It's it's it's more complicated than that.
I'm not.
It's a fun system.
You come here and smoke some and I'm sure you'll enjoy it.
We'll have to sit together.
Hawaii sustainable.
I don't use like the salts are a very small portion of the actual system.
And it's it's it's it's more about the life in the soil that I create.
And and like I'm going on a couple of years of the same cocoa and and I I build in and I don't need to.
We'll chat about it.
We'll get a conversation going at some point or another.
People dig into what I do.
I know I often I love sharing whether people are doing out there.
And I often do that most of the time.
Chilling in the coots.
Well, which is with I'm in Vancouver, which is awesome.
So I'm just help cover with the guys up here in the satellite.
I'm about two hours from the Canadian border.
I there are a few people there actually really close to the Canadian border, which is awesome.
We're going to have to come down and visit for sure.
As you can see, I am stoking a bowl of strawberry banana as we speak.
There should be a lot of fun stuff coming up.
Like I mentioned, Cheddar Bob hop on here now.
And we're going to press some rosen light.
Unfortunately, I won't be able to smoke it with him.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I haven't fed them for like a long time.
It's pretty natural.
I've gotten my my blurple lights off, which is good.
I also have peppers and stuff like that.
I like to keep things diverse.
It's fun.
Did the flood get, you know, I'm luckily I'm in North Vancouver, so I'm on the mountain.
So it's I'm fortunate enough to be able to dodge that.
I have a lot of people that are unsettled and misplaced.
It's actually going to be interesting because surprisingly enough, a lot of the, you know, I don't want legacy.
I guess we like the term legacy here in Canada.
A lot of the legacy growers in in the valley that really supplied a lot of the black market or the other side of the side of the market products.
A lot of them are located in the Fraser Valley.
I have a few people that, you know, do the ACMPR licensing gang and they're like getting half the amount.
They're getting a quarter of the amount of people come back because they're all living in the Fraser Valley.
It's the only place to find cheap housing.
So I'm interested to see kind of what happens with the market.
And there's Cheddar Bob.
Coming through with the press.
Hey, brother, I'm going to let you get sorted first.
Cheddar. All right. Can you hear me? Hopping in there, brother.
Fucking love it. Nice shirt.
Well, you know, I'm wearing the I'm wearing the Thor because I did something to my eye on Tuesday.
And ever since it's been getting worse and worse.
So I just got out of the ER and I'm looking all like fucking Thor.
You should like. Yeah.
Oh, I'm going to get an original Nick Fury fucking Thor.
What's that?
Yeah, you should you should go with it.
This works for you.
The patch really suits you, man.
That North Atlantic pirate.
Right.
All right. So let's see here.
I've never I've never done this before.
And there's your your your your.
I can only imagine.
Chat is lighting up right now.
Yes, they are very excited about your shirt.
That's for sure. Oh, my shirt.
My I thought they'd be make cracking jokes patch like, you know, what's your what's your wife do to you?
You know, stuff like that.
But so I guess this is a good one.
This isn't really you can't really get a good look, but this is some Bruce Banner number three that was the clone for the mother of the Bob's cheddar that Tony sent me, Mr.
Toad.
So I just I just finished a run of that up at my larger grow and I've been pressing it and it's been coming out at like shit like 30 between 30 32 33 percent maybe return.
Yeah, I'm getting like what I get for point two two out of a 14 point one zero press.
So that was I mean, that's a that's a good return.
But you're doing it for the joy, right?
Like you're more it's more about the joy for you than than anything else.
This isn't isn't a production sort of thing for me.
This is all personal, personal press.
But let me see if I'm trying to see if I could find a picture of the plant.
Which one was it again?
Sorry, the cherry pie.
No, this is the the Bruce Banner number three.
And number three.
I don't think I have any pictures of it actually on my I.G. because it was up at the larger grow.
But this is a little bit of the previous Rosen.
You know, it's cured up and it's, you know, but it still has that nice turpy wetness to it.
So, yeah.
All right. So bottle tech, right?
I keep forgetting where my camera is.
Bottle tech.
Go through that bottle textile is where you fold the edges in right to the inside.
And that makes it more of a disc when you press it instead of a flat bag.
So you have less surface area and more surface pressure to.
OK. To get your Rosen.
All right. Now we get a way out.
14 grams.
And if if Peter ends up coming back on and stuff, you know, just just yell at you.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, don't yell at me.
I'm sensitive.
I love the I love the like, did you notice like because you're a chef background, right?
Yeah, more or less.
It never leaves your soul.
I can smell it in your voice.
I'm not getting even in a kitchen of your whiskey and cigarettes.
The yelled over a path long enough to be able to take your claim.
Yeah, right.
I love that.
So but I, I find that it's always interesting, like all these gadgets that kind of come in that are like, oh, this is like so cool.
It's like, oh, wow.
That was like a total food thing.
Like we were doing it like a few years ago.
You know what I mean?
Like, oh, yeah, yeah.
And it's funny, like how many things I know you notice in a kitchen after, you know, when you when you grow cannabis, like racks and stuff, like how they how great they are for Scroggs.
And, you know, just stuff you just start looking at things differently in the kitchen.
You're like, oh, man, I could I could totally snag these, you know, little baggies or, you know, there's just all sorts of stuff in this room.
So insulated, I wouldn't even need to eat it.
The lights would do all the work for me.
All right. So we're at fourteen point zero two.
And I'm going to start dumping her in the bag.
All these flowers are, you know, about a gram or so, maybe a little less, a little more here and there.
But that's about the size of the flowers that I like to to pack into the bag.
So is that is that the structure of the plant more or less coming through?
Is that the way you've broken it down?
It seems to be more of the structure of the plant for me.
You know, the the flower spacing is pretty lengthy.
You know, the the bud sites are pretty spaced out.
So I don't know if Peter is in chat, by the way.
He says, ha ha, they're going to grab internet.
Venue working on internet.
So we'll be we got a few minutes to chill out.
OK, all right. Fantastic.
I'll try and go a little faster. We're up to temp too.
No, you got time, man. That's what I'm saying.
You take your time. There's no rush.
There's no rush.
Well, you know, as a chef and a waiter, you never tell us to take our time because we will take that time.
We will take your time. We will take four other people's time.
You won't see us again at the table for five minutes.
Oh, yeah. I mean, it's or or you're just like I found that sometimes I've dropped that and it's been like, oh, they won't leave your table because they think you're cool about it.
Oh, yeah. You're one of us. OK, cool.
I could just hang out with you.
You know, before I left the restaurant industry, I had this I really wanted to open a restaurant that had multiple floors and each floor was like a different, you know, style, food, different, different cuisine.
But, you know, it would be like people would it would be like a like a big column up the middle and all the chefs would be in the middle like an elevator, you know?
Yeah. The restaurant would raise around.
I was I always said I was really one restaurant.
But after many years, I was like, oh, no, that's not that's not good.
Did you did you ever have a million dollar idea?
I have one that I still need to do, but I'm like, I'm just so I don't want to do it because I know how much work it is.
But if I like if nothing else falls through, I'm going to do it.
And it's beef dips.
Well, the greatest sandwich on Earth is the beef dip.
And it needs to come back with the ferocity.
And I'm thinking like a chain of beef dips.
And they're like, you get a bunch of it, like you could have a pork dip with like, you know, a smoked gravy and like, you know, not, you know, a.
People don't know. That's why they're listening and watching it.
And it's like just do like a chicken dip with chicken gravy, like do them really, really, really well.
And but do a little variety, small menu.
And it's just like it's dips, you know, you just go in, you get your your dip and you go roll.
Right. You get your aju.
You could have different different, you know, smoked aju or like horseradish aju or grains of paradise.
I'm like big on grains of paradise all of a sudden.
I just remembered that from my time working out in California.
You never hear about that stuff out here.
But yeah, it was the the the terp in flavor profile on it.
Wow. This is really hard to do with one eye.
Don't cut yourself, man.
I don't think this is going to be a very straight line here, folks.
Holy shit.
Oh,
oh, yeah.
Like so they gave me like some gauze and they they taped it like, you know, like over my face at first.
And I was like, fuck this.
I want to look like Nick Fury.
So I stopped by the local Walgreens and went in and found an eye patch.
And I was like, oh, they just sell those at your local Walgreens.
I just I always wonder, like, like, is it are they going to have a stock of eye patches?
It must not be something that people are like always prepared to have on hand.
Well, you know, I think where I live there, there are a lot of eye injuries, you know, lots of fishermen and and trades people.
So, you know, I I think you'll find different things on the shelves here than you'll find in cities and stuff.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
What else? So what else do you grow?
You clearly like chefs always have this like alternative desire to grow stuff.
So like what other things do you have in your garden?
I am not a gardener.
No, no, no, no.
I don't I don't do vegetables like I don't grow vegetables or fruits.
Cannabis is really the only plant I'm good at growing, which is a little weird, but I like it.
But yeah, my my wife likes to garden, you know, but we don't go extravagant.
We have like some garlic and zucchinis and squashes, peas, beans, just your your normal your normal stuff.
I mean, I'm on I'm on the coast of Maine, so we don't our growing season isn't limited.
Great for. Yeah, it's very limited.
That's a better way to say it.
What are they ripping me?
I'm going to be back in chat when this is over.
Yeah, I know you got to roll it.
Can you not even see chat right now?
You just like.
No, I can't.
No, I can't see it.
That big section of one eye is just ruined life.
I know it's the camera thing.
I'm just like, all right, let's see.
Oh, shit.
I've got to switch cameras.
Yeah. Yeah.
All right.
OK, is that a nugg smash unit?
And did you say what type of thing you're growing this in?
I forgot.
So this is living soil.
OK.
It was or it was living soil four by four.
And yeah, this is a nugg smasher XP.
You know, we got our we got our stickers.
A controversial question while you do this.
Depends what topic it is.
But yes.
What what's living soil to you?
To me, living soil is having enough biology in your medium soil to keep things breaking down.
Oh, look at that.
It's already bubbling out.
Yeah, you should get that.
Look, we're not even at like.
Pressure.
What did you already get a Roma right now?
Oh, yeah.
Yep.
It's sort of a little gluey, but definitely has like little hints of strawberry.
Look at that.
Wow.
Oh, shit.
Sorry, guys.
One juicy, juicy plant.
Wicked.
What temperature were you pressing?
We are at one ninety and, you know, we're like eighteen hundred pounds per square inch and we can go up to thirty eight with 14 grams in the bag.
I mean, look at that.
That's just beautiful.
I've never done this.
I still have yet to do this.
This is something that's on my things to do list myself.
Yeah.
So.
Some people, you know, prefer dad press or low temp plates or Sasquatch, but for someone just starting, I mean, the Nug Smasher is a really, really good starter machine.
And how old is that?
How was the age on your cannabis?
Like, have they been curing for a bit or?
It's been curing for about two weeks, maybe three weeks.
So not a huge cure.
You know, when you're pressing flower, it doesn't have to be cured.
No, no, it doesn't.
So.
But do you find that there is like a better point that which to do it like?
You know, I haven't I haven't.
And only because.
OK, it's getting a little droopy.
So I'm going to flip you guys back around here so I can sit you down.
Chris, Chris just called you one eyed jack from the Goonies.
Well, at least at least.
That's too good.
That's too fucking funny.
At least it wasn't a chunk or sloth.
All right. So it's been what?
About three minutes at full pressure.
So I'll give it like, I don't know, another 30 seconds or so.
Because it's still I mean.
It's still.
Kind of going out.
But that's usually about the amount of time that I'll I'll run the press about four minutes total.
Can you can you overdo it like overheated or like early?
I'm sure you can.
I haven't come across the situation where I have yet.
Yeah.
Is there a humidity level of your of your flower that you like to press that you find works best for you?
If there was a way for me to to know the actual humidity of the
moisture content, not just the air in the jar, then exactly.
Then, yes, ideally, they say you want to shoot for like 62 percent.
That's what I hear. Like this is a little bit higher.
I like I like around 50 percent.
But a little bit higher.
I like I like around 55 myself because I do a lot of dry herb vaping.
And I find that like I don't know if it's 55, but I like that point of dryness where it's a little bit further than you might.
Look at that.
So, yeah, I mean, that was 14.
What did I say? 14.2 or something like that.
And I mean, there's definitely there's definitely at least three grams there.
It's a little it's a little greasy, so it tends to be not necessarily harder.
No, not not a bad thing at all.
You know, from what I understand, I'm no professional at this.
Is that that, you know, it's got a higher content if it's if it's greasier.
So. I mean, turps are great, right?
That's what we're that's what we're shooting for in this in this style.
Grow. Exactly.
This is where that and I think I think there's there's this level to be had because there's a lot of cultivars that aren't going to like necessarily be production run or like able to hit the numbers either by a volume or by a way that is going to be able to hit a larger market audience.
But I think there's there's like this avenue for these smaller batches to be done in a smaller environment and have people explore and grow them.
I think there's going to be like, do you think culturally we're going to lean towards like a big, big, like average flavor profile nationwide?
Like we all kind of like like Coca-Cola and Pepsi.
Or do you think it's going to be it's going to be very regionalized, kind of like the craft market is going like there's regional flavors in the craft market now for for beer, for example, and BC is becoming a big thing.
Yeah, I, geez, that's, that's a tough one.
I mean, probably. I really hope not.
But it seems a little inevitable.
Like, like Jodri was saying, I think it was even last year on an episode on Future Cannabis Project, the way that legal cannabis is going to push is going to be like, each region is going to be known for its certain cultivar, you know, because that's what grows well there.
That's what people can make money off of. You know, you can't grow a 16 week sativa or a haze outside in Maine. You just, you don't have the time for it to finish.
So, you know, it would be like the Hunger Games of cannabis, you know, districts would have their own little niche.
Yeah, I do see that probably coming. Is it going to be, I mean, the way things happen so quickly right now, it could happen in our lifetime.
Will it? Probably not. You know, but yeah, that's how I see it.
Did you say you were styling on this iPad show?
Yeah, dude, you look fucking cool. I'm kind of like I'm stumbling over my words.
I might just fucking take my eye out. Be like, yo, take it. I need a scar.
You don't have to remove the eye. You all.
Yeah.
I just keep the eye patch. I gotta get rid of the eye. You can't keep the eye.
Yeah, right. Yeah.
You're gonna be eye though.
Faux eye patch.
I thought the iPad was like it was it was so that pirates could switch so that when they went below deck and it was dark, they had an eye that was like able to handle the darkness and switch between the above deck and below deck light.
That's what the whole eye patch was. I don't know. Maybe I'm stoned, but I mean, I'm sure some of them maybe.
Yeah, you see, I do.
And me, I do grow outdoor.
Yeah, yep.
I like to know it's not easy we like especially in my area I'm on an island off off the coast and so we get this like fog drift that comes in about, you know, oh, five o'clock every night and sits there until about dusk and then moves out and then comes back in the morning.
And is there until about 10 1030 in the morning so we get like, I don't know, maybe six hours of good sunlight a day in where I am.
And then, along with that you know you have high humidity and just, yeah, that's a hassle.
So what have you done have found that's been helping with your success. I'll tell you what mine's fucking bad. I'll tell you about all my failures because I got a lot of those when it comes down.
Well, it's like I said on the clubhouse you know I'm not an expert at anything except for mistakes, like, I've, I've made them all and I've made them all multiple times and I'm sure I will make them all again, you know, it's just, it's who I am I just learned from mistakes so I learned the hard way.
But outdoors this year I probably had my best run.
As far as pests and mold and powdery mildew.
I ran the Jodrey cut of cherry pie that I have in earth boxes.
15 gallon earth boxes.
I had those up on my elevated porch, so it's like a second story porch. Yeah, so way high off the ground. I don't know how much that helped with pests, I'm going to assume, fairly well.
Just because, you know, being at ground level flat, you would imagine that pests don't want to go any further than they have to.
Yeah, they're all the way up all that stuff depending on what the pests they are.
And then when September came, I did buy sort of like a half, half greenhouse, you know, like that connects to the back of my house onto the porch.
So like if you took a whole greenhouse and split it right down the middle.
And I'll tell you, I really, I didn't lose much to budraw, I had maybe five or six little side nugs.
It finished in time.
It finished fabulous. So, the turf profile is excellent, just like, just like the indoor, except a little, a little bit more sweet, and I'll attribute that to it being the outdoor having that that mass full spectrum of of light rather than the individual focal points.
Yeah, so, yeah.
It's like I had, I put out my first year I ever tried to do outdoor I like started it and because you see all these photos and stuff, I got a giant fucking trees I'm like I can do this.
I can take a plant and started in like, you know, December, and fucking roll it all the way. Yeah, for sure.
I can I had an indoor tent.
So I'm like, yeah, why not. They'll do that I'll take the rent of the litter and I'll put her out and give it a, I gave it a 10 by six by.
It was no is 10 by eight and my box with probably, you know, maybe 10 inches deep and and put it out there in like May, June, and it by mean by then it was already pretty big, but I mean I'm growing outdoor in in BC, Canada, so it's it's it's a treacherous weather to say the least.
I dropped out.
But yeah, treacherous treacherous weather, my wife and child or are cooking in the background.
But, depending on if cheddar comes back we'll give them a minute to see if he comes back.
If he doesn't. Oh, there he is.
There we go.
I can't hear you you're mute, you're mute.
You're mute.
I can't unmute you.
You're muted.
You're muted the whole time.
Oh, you're muted again.
How's now. You're good.
It's this thing I keep going to press the button, and I press the thing beside it, I feel like a. Yeah, you know,
you can just see like the bottom half of my wife, and my little one running around in the background doing cooking.
So good.
I was saying I put that big plant outdoor and it got huge. And man, but it was like, it was like a harvest by mid to late November.
Like by, it was just, it ended up being about eight feet tall I had to cut it back like twice pretty heavily.
I ended up putting a whole greenhouse over the whole thing I maybe got two ounces of good, good smokeable flower.
It was a nightmare.
And where you're in BC.
Yeah, in North Vancouver BC so I'm also in like in a rain belt spot where it just continues to rain all the time.
Like, you're in one of those Olympic spots.
Yes, yes, yes.
Yes, so is Pete, how long does the Emerald Cup.
Is it like an all night thing or.
Yeah, they're party they're going pretty late so he just he just shot me a message back and said, thanks, it looks like the internet might be down for a little bit, so we'll wrap it.
But I think you should take a dab but can you take a dab of that.
Do you want me to do the fresh or the one that's been cured.
Well I mean if you want to do like, I don't know.
You do one of each do one of each and compare them.
Because I think that's that's where we're going to get the most value.
And then first.
Awesome so that's secured one secured.
Get some light on the subject here.
Man focus.
It's hard for what type of camera do you have.
I have an iPhone 12, Matt pro max.
I don't pro max.
They don't do those close ups so well I got no they don't they're horrible they don't have the very good macro camera at all.
All right.
So yeah, the cured how long.
This is the.
What's it been maybe three days.
Sonny Chiva needs to know what you have hanging behind you.
Oh, the herbs.
Yeah, what do you got hanging for the herbs.
That is some old time and oregano.
Looks like maybe some rosemary as well.
Oh yeah.
So definitely some diesel.
Strawberry on the end.
Wow.
Yeah.
What temperature did you do you do you cook that.
So, I have my email set at 600.
Now, it.
It's not 600 degrees. I bet it's about 2025 degrees off.
So high 500s.
All right now, one of the freshies.
It Del Man is that you apps on farms, because they're here. I think he just asked.
Right here.
Do you.
Oh, so I don't know how old you are London but.
The original animator for Nintendo died this week.
Oh no.
Like we're talking like the first gen Nintendo right.
Yep. The NES.
That was awesome I remember playing Legend of Zelda, it was just painful for hours and hours.
That in excite.
Excite bike and commando.
Oh shit.
Tech mobile that blades of blades of steel, like the only game you could fight in in sports.
Did you check out that fucking service.
See that fucking coffee delivery that just happened there. That was the fucking greatest thing that ever happened to me in my entire life. So everybody knows.
Usually that would be involved with me getting smacked in the back of the head a couple times and feel very fortunate right now that my life just gave it delivered me a nice espresso.
I've never been much of a coffee drinker I had one. I think I've had like maybe one cup of coffee my entire life.
One cup of coffee. Yeah, I didn't like it. I love it. I'm a big coffee fan.
I don't I but I don't like I can't drink like a traditional drip coffee or a latte or like fucking cappuccinos or any of that shit I like I need just a straight up express up like this is traditional like proper espresso.
This is very nicely and yeah, makes me happy.
Nice.
Well, all right, London.
Thank you for having me on I'm glad I could fill a little space for you.
We'll say goodbye together and tell everybody to hang in and hang out and keep their eyes out to the rest of the Emerald Cup if they get the internet back up hopefully they should have not they'll be back tomorrow.
Yeah, absolutely. I don't know how much Peter's going to be figuring out on technical difficulties, but hopefully, hopefully has some help.
Well thanks for helping me out man I appreciate you stopping by brother.
You have an awesome one I thank you again.
