Happy Wednesday to you Living Soil nerds.
As we always kind of have to do sometimes when we have an exceptional guest on the show,
we have some technical difficulties.
Our boy London is now live each and every week coming to you from Italy.
His family made the entire trip last week so he had the times a little bit messed up
so we had to go back and change all that stuff.
Don't want to bore you with that but that was the reason why we were a little bit late.
But the real success today is that a lot of this information is starting to get out there
and I want to give a quick shout out.
We have hats now that are provided by Bear Lion Screen Printing and Embroidery.
I appreciate you doing it.
I'm going to be reaching out to you.
I got this literally like 15 minutes before the show came on.
I'll be shipping them out to Marco so we appreciate you doing that.
You know, the show is starting to become something and I know London, myself and Marco,
we're proud of that.
The fact that we could get a gentleman like Mr. Powers on the show.
I mean, these are the kind of things that I think the community wants to see.
And because Marco and I have certain Rolodexes, if you will, to be able to make that stuff happen
for you, we reached out to Matt and he was, you know, excited to come on the show for you guys.
I know there's a lot of individuals that look up to you, Matt, for a variety of different reasons.
From what I understand, for the most part, it's like self-educated.
I know you partnered up with like Dr. Laningham.
That was the aha moment for me, was listening to podcasts.
She was actually on a show called The Adam Dunn Show with a gentleman named Mitch Sanassa.
And Mitch Sanassa, back in the day, was asking her unbelievable questions about the microbial world.
And this was probably like 2011, man.
It was a while ago.
And she was answering that by saying like, yes, I believe that that microbial world might be able
to improve the overall trichome production.
And, you know, she doesn't grow cannabis, especially back then.
She didn't, I don't think she necessarily understood all of the depth of the question.
But her answer was what gave me the moment was like, I got to listen to what this lady has to say.
So I want to give it over to the co-host, Marco.
And, you know, there's a lot of things that we want to dive deeper into today, Matt.
And I think there's going to be a lot of questions for you as well.
Because people just really like, relate and like the stuff that you're putting out there.
Oh, yeah, that's going to be a good one, man.
Thank you, Matt, for joining us.
You know, I'm a little selfish.
I get to talk to, you know, Matt Powers about, you know, regenerative agriculture,
you know, permaculture, ask all my questions.
So, you know, for a grower, this is going to be a really great one.
You know, you guys know I got my birds coming soon.
So we're going to talk a little bit about that.
I think that'll be well worth it.
And, man, I know you've written, you know, several books and all kinds of stuff, Matt.
So I don't even know really where to start.
Why don't you kind of kick it off, kind of tell the folks a little bit about yourself
if someone's not familiar, and we'll just kind of jump into the conversation.
Well, thank you for having me.
It's a pleasure to be here.
Talk to everyone.
I'm an author.
I was a high school teacher.
I have a master's degree in education, and I was modeling for my kids how to do a Kickstarter.
And I just got into it.
And I'm kind of a person that when I get into things, I really get into it.
And I started this almost eight years ago now.
I wrote a book based on Jeff Lawton's permaculture course, and I took a nod from Fukuoka,
Sep Holzer, and Elaine Ingham.
Elaine was actually helped me create the compost sections and the compost, the soil food web diagram in that book.
So years ago, I started working with her, and she really gave me the confidence initially Elaine did.
And Jeff's encouragement, because Jeff's I mean, as soon as I finished the book, he was like, yeah, now let's make it in Arabic, right?
Yeah.
And then he did.
And he paid for it to be made my book, my first book to be made in Arabic.
And then he had three thousand copies printed.
So so it was like this.
My first book was like this huge success.
And I just kept applying educational best practices to the way I did things.
And it's never failed me.
And I've gone deeper and deeper as an educator.
And that's really where I am.
So who I am.
I'm a teacher and I want to help facilitate people's understanding, growth and really get
people the tools that will help them go out into the world and navigate.
And so when I approached permaculture, I went down to the principles and then went back up.
So I was like, where's the ocean, river and riparian area permaculture?
I had to create it.
And then it was like social, social permaculture has no defined anything.
So I had to create the social permaculture principles.
And then and then I discovered like all of Bill's stuff from 89 was cited on 70s and 80s
information, which, you know, is that era.
It's been what, you know, 40 to 50 years.
So if these things needed to be updated, that's what I did.
I connected to educational standards.
My work, the permaculture student work became the first permaculture curriculum ever to be
accredited by a government body in North America.
And so it's the first time that high school kids could get credit for learning permaculture.
And so and this whole time I was learning from Dr.
Lyon Ingham. She was she was like shaping a lot of my understanding.
But some of your folks maybe might be friends with Chris Trump or Kvada McVie or heard of
those folks. They at the same time were my friends like eight years ago.
And they were like, well, you know, and they were giving me all these caveats to everything
Elaine was saying, because at that point, if you guys remember, Elaine was like, EM is
bad. It's anaerobic.
Don't touch it. It's evil.
Remember this? Yeah, very well, because I put it in my book.
And if you have a first.
Still there, Matt, there's some people that still have this like, you know, if you're not a
purist, then, you know, how can you ride with one group or the other?
Well, what will the reality is the soil itself is a facultative anaerobic environment, not
an aerobic environment in its natural state.
And so and then also, EM, if we did DNA testing, because I have.
But if we did DNA testing on all of your compost and all of Elaine's compost, there would be
these core elements that are common to them all.
Some of those core elements happen to be the microbes in the trademarked consortium EM and
its trademark, so the microbes anyone can brew and anyone can bring those biofertilizers,
their yeast, their lactic acid bacteria, and there's streptomyces, there's actually candida
and rhodostatomonas palustris, buddy, right here, which is responsible for that leaky gut
candida. Yeah.
So be careful with be careful with EM, but like people drinking EM, I've done it myself,
but this EM3, have you guys ever seen EM3 before?
Show me that other bottle that you had.
I think I just met that guy last week.
Do it. So this is algae barn.
So this this right here is a awesome culture.
I've reviewed several cultures of purple non sulfur bacteria, rhodostatomonas palustris.
The elusive rhodostatomonas palustris that everyone wants.
Algae barn here in Commerce, Colorado.
Yeah. Yeah.
Small world, dude.
Yeah. That guy's making waves, man.
And in a variety of I was even talking to him because it might be something that I could use
with my soil systems.
I mean, these are. So EM3 is the the Japanese EM row version of this, except it's it
doesn't have everything like this is like the perfect picturesque like textbook standard
culture of purple non sulfur bacteria.
It's unbelievable.
You get the big flowery like like pom poms of red.
This is it. This I can tell because I know after I've reviewed so many samples that this
is rich in purple non sulfur bacteria, having DNA tested yet.
I can't wait to because there's bizarre other things in here.
Yeah, well, that's just that's a lot, man, just scratching the surface.
I want to go back. I want to get too far ahead, though.
Prince, I mean, you always got to start with those principles.
So what are some ones like folks of yours, you know, your principles?
What ones you hold really dear and want to just kind of share and kind of get people
started on their thought about principles?
Well, so when I started doing permaculture, that's where I learned that if we align things
like like, you know how they align the ethics to get the overlap, you can do that with
anything and you actually have to to get at truth.
We do that with history when we're studying history.
We take the different perspectives and overlap them and then we kind of comment on it
objectively. Right.
Without making like a firm we make tentative decisions about these things.
It's like that's like the kind of space that care and observation level we need with a
lot of things in life.
And so with this, I wanted to understand things micro to macro.
And so with with soil as a permaculture, there are these principles that are like threads
that tie through everything.
And one of those things, one of those overlaps, I've got like a little picture here I can
show you that really demonstrates it.
Let's see, there we go.
Is this.
So. The problem with like the way we used to do things, let's see if I can get this
looking good, is that we thought about things from one of these spaces and then ran with
it or an aspect of one of those spaces.
So someone's like mycorrhizal fungi is everything you need.
And then they like ran off into this distance and you're like, where did that guy go?
And it's like we've actually seen people come and go like this industry wide, right?
There are these people that just get all carried away.
And the reality is it's like Elaine had a piece.
Mike Amaranthus, Michael Rizal, man, he had his piece.
Chris Trump. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
All these people have contributed to show us what's possible and including them and
trying to find the thread between them has been what I do because I want to understand
the actual cycles, patterns and principles behind things, because that's the only way
that we can truly measure things.
The only way that we can truly improve holistically and figure out new questions to ask
so we get new insights and to create and model new methods.
So so that's what I've been really about.
And so I've been this this receiver of like all this information from from all these
different people, Olivia Hussein, John Kemp, Chris Trump, Quetta McVie, Elaine Ingham.
But there's so many more because I have like a massive library of crazy books.
And it's the reality is there's contextual truth.
And then there is truth that goes through and through micro to macro and figuring that
out, putting those details into their appropriate place so that people have an accurate
understanding of expectation and vision for what's possible, as well as what we have
completely unmapped.
There's so much of this space is like wildly unmapped.
And so that's the other thing is it's like poking holes in like these broken paradigms.
There's so many broken paradigms and people are like walking around on them like they're
not thin ice. It's like you're just there's just time you're just going to have a bad
crop. You're going to have something fail.
You're going to have someone get, you know, have terrible numbers, you know, and so it
will catch up to you.
And so I that's that's really where I've led from is that that transparency, being
really honest, being really objective and in going back to what's natural.
That's that's like one of my most important prints in the end, these are the principles
of how I create the things I create.
So these are like I mean, I showed you the overlap of the regenerative soil, like what
that is. But like this is how I think about all these things.
I want I want us to have fluency.
I want all of us to have fluency because only when we're all fluent in the mechanics and
the understanding and the behaviors of soil and plant roots and all the cycles and the
nutrients and the minerals, then can we have deeper insights.
I mean, diversity, right?
The diversity of education and knowledge and everything else.
And as modalities of understanding, some people are going to be more logical.
Those are the engineer brains.
That's not me.
You know, the math brain folk, not me.
You know, I'm the narrative.
I'm the cycle.
I'm the pattern. Like I get all that like really well.
But like that's why I always find those people and become friends with them.
And then like, hey, look over my book, you know, because then they become my my really
sharp peer reviewers.
So you had brought up like new insights, new questions.
I think that's something that Marco and I, we love to hang our hat on is like so many
people had some kind of tunnel vision for a few years.
And you had mentioned it wasn't just with Dr.
Lightningham. There are other gurus or people that individuals looked up to.
They started to say things that maybe other people didn't agree with.
And instead of it becoming some kind of constructive dialogue, it became branches where
now there's all these little clicks, if you will, that that come under the regenerative
farming umbrella.
And I've also started to notice that a lot of that information is now being wrapped up.
I mentioned this on Instagram.
People put it in a prettier bow and then charge double the price.
I've seen them. There's been mentors that you've just mentioned on the show where
people are basically taking that class and selling it as their own.
And so when you had mentioned like new insights and stuff, I think that's how the
community as a whole will be able to continue moving forward is you'd mentioned people
fall away to the wayside.
The cannabis community as a whole is pretty good at self-regulating things.
And I feel like if we get more of this information out that some of that stuff is just
echo chamber. Let's hear some new insights from some of these individuals, especially for
the amount of money that they're charging, where a lot of this information has come free
from the YouTube's from, you know, you've been doing this longer than Marco and I have.
I think you've been doing this like seven years or something, you know.
It's just mind boggling to me the amount of information that's not being pumped out since
Covid. Our show grew from that that point of time as well.
And I think there's more individuals out there that just are wasting their time kind of
hearing the original information passed on almost like a telephone.
So the main objective is kind of told, but the details are lost.
So people will maybe not have success.
We've even had to dedicate a show to IMOs because people haven't had success because they
might not have understood all of the details and maybe how hard that is, especially when
you first get started, how many boxes you need to put out there.
So I was wondering if you could share with our audience some of the insights and stuff
that you feel like are tried and true and maybe some of that bro science that we can kind
of whittle through that's been passed through over the years.
Yeah, so there's you guys are aware of PotenPonics, like the open nutrient database,
right? Steve Rassner.
That's you speaking up.
No, I haven't. I'm not.
Tell us. So what what he is there is has like a library of tests that we all can do on
our on our soil, on our aquaponics, like like water.
And so that we can share not only the results, but we can actually map out like the
nutrients and FPGA across different like plants and FFJ.
And you know, I mean, like all of those different variations because they're going to be
different with the the they're going to be different across plant types.
They're going to be different across within plant types, especially with like an early
like like banana or a late banana, like or overripe banana.
Like all these are going to have different expressions.
I also know that they're going to have different expressions if we just add like EM or we
add another bio fertilizing or selective saprophytic slash endophytic microbe, right?
So.
So all of those things that he's he's helping us map out, I thought it was genius.
One of the things I didn't know about this after I did my Kickstarter, one of the
Kickstarter goals was the our soil database.
All of us are doing soil testing and like kind of a black box kind of environment where
no one gets to gets in.
No one sees, you know, no.
If we network, we'll be able to see our soil in comparison to other people working the
same crop, other people in the same bioregion, other people with that clay content level,
other people, you know what I mean?
And that kind of ability we've never had.
Soil science has never had all the university agricultural science has never had.
We've never had soil science has never had all the university agriculture departments
are run by grad students and they're they're like so conventional.
That's the information they're basing off of almost everything.
So we have amateur hour over there and they're running on the conclusions like, well, this
will be great. And then I go and try to track these people down.
And half the time, the people that wrote the papers, that people are like, well, I
Googled it. The person doesn't even do that branch of science.
They just did it because it was part of their like undergrad or their graduate program.
And they're like, oh, yeah, nematodes.
Yeah, you probably want this guy.
I did that. And I'm like, oh, throw that paper out.
That guy cares so little and doesn't remember it.
I don't know if I can even trust his data.
He's like did it to just pass a class.
And so that's me for every paper out there isn't like a real deal, you know, solid piece
of document. Like you said, a guy just threw his homework together and it's on the
Internet. It could be that.
So be careful what you guys read out there.
You know what I mean? And what you take is as knowledge, you know, without trying.
Yeah, and so increasingly what we really have to do is we have to be able to test
ourselves and share those tests and communicate those tests to create more meaning
around those texts, the tests and context.
So this the imagine when we have a hundred thousand tests.
Across by regions, across like nematode populations, across like DNA and comparing it
to DNA, never been done before, like I want to and I'm going to and I've already started
creating this database to connect all this information so that we can make make more
sense of it. Because the reality is everything has been these pinpoints that are isolated
camps and silos and nary do they meet, you know.
And so permaculture is really about connecting all the sciences and that turned my brain
onto that. And I just was like, and I apply it to soil and everyone's like, what?
And it's because it's because I feel like that's what mycelium does.
That's what's natural.
And our unnatural degenerative systems are totally fractured, reductive.
They don't talk to each other.
They're like, you know what I mean?
They're noncompatible.
Right, right. These things don't plug in, you know.
And it's like we have the opportunity to just go down to the bottom level, connect
everything and then go back up and everything's connected all the way up.
And so that's what I did with with my work with regenerative soil.
So I'm continuing to do with regenerative soil microscopy and I'm using DNA sequencing to
check my work.
And I mean, it's really wild, the things that have been taught and done.
And I know you said people are just passing things around.
The reality is, is like this probably why has a certain disclaimer at the beginning of
her new courses, right?
Because of that. So and that's why probably her bio complete compost is trademarked now.
Right. So so.
Yeah, I do things differently.
I want to do things so that they're open and facilitate change in a substantive way
because soil is our bodies and our minds, our children, our future, our all health.
I mean. Yeah, you know, and it's also so complex that if we don't approach it with
humility, like, whoo, we can just end up looking foolish.
That's a great idea.
Can I ask you, though, Matt, while you're there on microbes?
So I want to get kind of how you're inside.
I keep going. I'll answer your question after.
OK, I'm sorry to jump in there.
And I'll answer Brian's question after.
Marco, you go. I'm sorry.
All right. All right. I'm sorry.
So I just want to get this clear on your micro thought process.
You know, in the general science feels like, OK, only less than a percent of microbes
have even been identified.
We know that what they do, very small percentages.
Is it you know, and in my ideas, OK, I want that microbial diversity of this kind of one
at all. Are you now are you saying you kind of dive in more specifically into certain
microbes and now studying, trying to study specifically certain microbes and their
functions in the soil and in testing?
OK, this will be perfect.
I'll answer both your questions at the same time.
I thought they were.
OK, so the past 10 to 15 years, primarily mycology has been on pause.
The whole study, everyone's excited.
Everyone's bum, but behind the scenes, it's been on pause.
And that's why it's been a gold rush for people like Alan Rockefeller and William Padilla
Brown to genetically identify things and then get to name them.
This is happening right now because the old guard doesn't want to recognize the DNA
because it destroys all their morphological identification keys and destroys all their
assumption work because it was all sumptive and none of it was true.
So what we do have is we have got well, well mapped morphology and then we have DNA
showing that we've got lookalikes.
We've got like things that are like almost identical.
And then we've got cousins and closely related or maybe the same species with telomeres that
are completely different, like trichodermis telomere is a wood saprophyte, the yellow
wood saprophyte that looks like.
Like. Like foam, almost yellow foam that goes on, that's trichoderma.
So if you chip that wood and then we're using it in a system and then a trike, you'd be
like, where's that's where it's from.
But we didn't know that until DNA testing, because everyone thought trichoderma had to be
green. You know, you're only you're worth for green.
Right. So DNA is now is where you're saying that's transforming the old.
So it's completely different biological expression of the same exact thing.
Which opens which I mean, you have people who are doing the papers around it, but people
aren't making books.
People aren't they're doing the generalist side there, but they're there.
I mean, I read this.
I bought this book. It was like one hundred fifty dollars and it's awesome looking and
everything. And then it's like this is highly artificial.
And I'm like. Ah, they're like, well, it's non phylogenic and it's like if you're going to
use DNA testing, none of this will work.
So this raises a bunch of fundamental questions about how things are actually working.
And there's may raise a question as to why one company is buying up all triology.
Because the standard biology for the past hundred and twenty, hundred and thirty years was
Berge's and they've gotten on and now they're no longer published and now they're only
behind a university select university paywall with special permission through that
university online.
Or you can access a specific chapter for like eighty dollars.
It's like really 20 pages, 80 bucks.
Yes. And so this one company is right now buying up as much of the mycorrhizal, as much
of the fungal information as possible and locking it up.
And it's because this information is starting to play out and what it's showing is like,
oh, our paradigms for everything are totally not real.
Like their way, their parts of them are real, but to go out on them and like jump up and
down, we're going to go through the ice.
And I think that, you know, the emperor wears no clothes in a variety of different ways.
These days, I think medically people are being like, wait a second, you know, and it's
because it's based upon the same exact broken paradigms for diagnostics.
It's a logical.
And.
And.
Name for this is the artist Nanopore, like electronically reading something like a like a
like a barcode strip, you know what?
It's guided proteins and it splits the DNA and it reads it like that, takes the DNA strand
through a nanopore and reads it.
And then you have PCR, which is like your guitar signal going through a delay pedal.
And if it's if it's you're doing a selective thing, you're EQing it to a small bandwidth
and then going shun and and and and and and it's like there's all this mutation and
selectivity. And so it's not really true.
So so we and this is why people on death row who are like overturning their DNA results.
Because they didn't do it properly because they just lots of cycles reads like anything
looks like you.
Wow, that's messed up, but that's what we've been doing.
We've been tricking ourselves in science.
And so what I've been doing is going through and initially I was before I was able to
discern through further, I was just taking everything.
And then I got a like I got a subscription to Nature for for Nature magazine, the journal
for a year. And then I went through their whole backlog and printed everything out.
And so I have like all the soil plant and microbe related articles from nature in a
library that I've created and printed out.
And so I go through all of this and and and I used to align it up and then look at the
commonalities and then what can I prove true?
What can I just prove?
And so I've been running through that for years now.
And regenerative soils is a byproduct of that process.
But now that I can kind of like sense how like like now that I understand I've been
testing tests against tests right now that I've been doing that work and kind of getting
under how we form our understanding and meaning around soil tests results.
And then how we read plants, how we divine nutrition.
It's it's forced me to go to this level and it's wild.
I mean, I interview scientists and they're like, OK, can you turn it off?
And I'm like the recording that, yeah, turn it off.
And I'm like, OK.
And then and they're like, OK, now let me tell you how this applies to humans.
And then and then you go, you can't tell anyone this.
You can't record this because I work with animals and plants.
But as soon as you say it's about humans, it doesn't matter that we're animals, too.
So you say it's about humans.
It's dangerous.
And so it's like there's so much of this right now in our world, and that's why I want
to create this database.
I want to empower people to create community labs everywhere.
My book, this is the first time that we've had visuals of all and then even a
collection of the processes for all the key plant nutrients, mineral cycles for each.
Ever these things exist before my book, but isn't that the way we should understand it?
Isn't it like nature showing us the processes and the things that work?
And then we like harmonize with them and align to them.
That's that for me has been like the guiding principle above all principles is like
what's natural. Well, how did that form?
How does nature do that?
And I mean, people talk about electroculture, right?
Sometimes they're like, well, we want to bring extra energy down to the thing makes
logic. But but but that's the thing is asking how nature did it means that it's in the
bandwidth of. Of of of like the Goldilocks range of expression and hormesis, and we see
such. Growth and expression and diversity in the tenderest places, the most fertile
places in nature, and I really believe that when we create that, when we find that
Goldilocks, whether we're talking about our pH or age or our soil medium or the ratios
of things, there's an incredible natural regenerative process that opens up in that
time, in that space.
Time and space, and and that's really what regenerative soil is, it's like how did the
soil get here in the first place?
Well, it developed natural cycles, developed soil and harmonizing with them speeds up the
process. The same thing with like cleansing our bodies, the same thing.
It's like, oh, sleep is natural.
It's like people get extra sleep, heal faster.
The same thing with nutrition in the soil, same thing with developing soil.
So. A lot of my work, like speaking of the insights, has been to look at the new
technology, understand how it opens up more meaning.
So for one of those things that opens up more meaning is the epifluorescence microscope.
What's wild is back when it was only available as metal halide, you know, it was
mercury lamps.
Elaine Ingham in 81 or 82, I was born in 82, wrote about how this could be a way to
analyze fungi. So she knew about this fundamentally from a theoretical perspective.
She never worked again after like the early 80s with mycorrhizae and
epifluorescence. And like, I mean, yeah, and I started getting into it.
Ellen W. Scientific came to me, it was like, hey, I've got this this this person that
really wants to learn what you're doing.
We talked to them. I said, yes, they're like, it's Elaine Ingham.
And I was like, oh, so this is new to a lot of people.
It's non-destructive.
And actually, the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi shape of the tree branches, I think is a
byproduct of the testing method, not reality.
This non-destructive method has it much more ephemeral, like or it goes from bright to
opaque, like and then dissipates.
And so, in other words, on a very fine grain level, it's spreading out like this.
And when we do all the destructive tests, the old school tests to make the beautiful
arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, things they burn those back to nubs and they look like
branches. I've never heard anybody say it like that before.
The heat of the light.
I was talking to some I was talking to a guy who had been working for the Forest Service
worked at the university. He was like, how are you doing these images?
He was all freaked out and he was like he had incredible images of the arbuscular and
he's like, I did these at three thirty thousand dollar microscope.
This one is seven K, but I got a 40 percent off.
My students get 30 percent off, 37 percent off.
Yeah, I got a great deal on it.
So he flipped out.
I kind of may have ruined his day.
And I was like, well, how do you get your images?
And he was explaining the process and I was like, how is that natural?
And there was like a long silence and he was like, what do you do?
And I was like, I don't do anything.
I put the root underneath and turn it on.
And he's like, oh.
Oh, like I like ruined 40 years of this education.
Because people get hurt.
Right.
You get to take it personal and they don't have that open mind anymore.
Right. And then they don't they don't get anything new.
Well, they were literally 12 years out.
They're retired on Facebook showing images of when they were a university professor.
And then me being like, oh, oh, and then they'll be like, no, that's wrong.
That's wrong. It should be like this.
And I'm like, well, I don't do it that way.
And they're like, that's not possible.
And they show me images.
They're like. What is that?
And I don't use FDA like Elaine does.
She's lighting everything up and I like to make things selective.
So I figured out that there was an older dye that is now used to fight
cancer that is actually a differential dye.
If you so think about this back in the day, everyone put their eyes on this.
That's dumb.
If you put your eyes on these, you just slowly go blind like this,
like you're focusing light like into your eye.
And then they're like, oh, well, just take take a 10 minute break every 15 minutes.
Who does that? No one works like that.
We're human. Like you live.
You work like three hours a day.
So I don't use them ever.
And I do it on a screen, which means I can mess with the brain.
So something you can go over to
completely. Yeah, absolutely.
It's there's no fatigue.
It's for K for and and.
And that.
I lost my train of thought, what was I saying?
You were basically saying we're saying now watching
how we don't look through the viewfinder.
I mean, that's the only way to look through the viewfinder.
I mean, through the actual ocular, you know, on the microscope,
watching on screen, we're saying how that, you know, you can look longer.
Like for me, you can see more, you know, because you know how it is.
It's tough looking through there for long periods of time.
You got on the screen.
It's just everything's right there for you.
Now, Matt, sometimes that was this day, but there was something more.
I didn't say it'll come to me later, but
means I need to take some deep breaths.
Well, I think this might be a good segue with some of the guests, man.
I like to ask specific questions.
And with you, man, I want to ask a question that I don't understand.
There's something called slime mold.
Are you familiar with this? Yeah.
And then there's, I guess, a specific slime mold that the Japanese study.
And when they were watching and playing around with this stuff,
they set it up somehow.
And I'm I'm not the man to do that.
I'm not the man to explain this.
So I hope that you've heard of this.
But it recreated the Tokyo subway system in a matter of hours.
And I wanted to understand how is that possible
when you're talking more on the microbial world?
And if you want to get weird with metaphysical,
you know, this shows all for that.
But I just don't understand why that information came out in 2010.
And then it just seemed like nobody talked about it.
I was wondering if that kind of stuff,
if it's played around with species, we understand maybe that would improve
our soil systems by kind of allowing it to be released within
like a raised bed or something of a larger substrate
and then allowing that slime mold to kind of go out.
It basically kind of like react, reaccesses everything
and then sends more things out to kind of build the the main highways,
if you will.
Are you familiar with that and what the hell's going on there?
OK, so what they did was they set it up
and it was more efficient than their current subway system.
It created they gave it all the pathways and then it like mapped it out
and was more efficient.
And so what what that means is that the the the fungi, the
the slime mold in this case, and I believe it's with all fungi.
It really can sense.
What looks to us like correct.
But just like water follows like the east path of easiest like flow.
Because my car, all fungi has like spits and corpers
that have a field on them.
Because they're always seeking out foods
and they're so highly efficient and evolved because
they have to find the closest food to them possible
or else they might not survive as much as they spore like.
So it's it shows the efficiency
and what people would call the intelligence of fungi.
But it's not just slime mold.
We see this everywhere that natural fungal networks
are allowed to establish or have been established over time naturally.
And so we see this communication network, this network
that facilitates the movement of nutrients, bacteria, fungi
and. And also signaling,
I mean, they've recently discovered that, hey, Jared,
they recently discovered that there's language,
there's actual language that fungi are communicating with.
My alarm and and they're
and they're mapping out what words are for the fungi.
So there's there's so much space here for new understanding.
And like you mentioned, we've mapped out one to 10 percent,
depending on who you ask of the microbes.
But that species.
Morphologically, we know what they are, what they look like,
and then genus wise, we primarily know what they look like.
It's like a Pareto distribution. It's wild.
It's all like 20 percent, 80 percent or like 10 percent.
OK, so it's like a hockey stick.
You have like forever, like little bits of all these are microbes.
Then it's like, foom, and it goes straight up.
And it's like it goes 18 percent.
E. coli, one point two percent streptomyces,
and then everyone else is below one percent for like 12.
And then after that, it's below point one percent for like 12 to 24.
And then it's like forever minuscule, like one or two counts.
It's wild. It's a hockey stick.
And so when we say there's so much, there's so much, so much microbes
and everything, it's like, well, the majority are these very small group.
You know what I mean?
A collection of like 20 to 30 of them
and the ratios of them might actually be much more important.
That makes a lot of sense.
And the only way we'd map that out, though,
is to have a transparent database where we're all adding to it.
And we're all seeing this together as a community.
The cannabis community really demonstrated this to me with their testing.
Like like quatermic would be would be showing me things
and be like this tested like this.
This tested like that.
But smell this.
And it's like and like it just was wild, you know.
And so I saw that they got so much value out of it's like a it's like a
like a biofeedback loop, right, or a neurofeedback loop.
It's like we're the brain and we've got this body, this, you know, that we're
we're the soil and these plants that we're trying to like map and contact with.
And when we have these things actually mapped out,
incredible things happen. So.
Does that answer some of the new insights?
Yeah, it's just why
is there no one in the world that's continued that kind of research?
And then is there anywhere in America that they've kind of continued on?
There's a lot that you use the word intelligent, intelligent,
because it seems like this is this when we use the phrase worlds upon worlds,
this kind of for me is a way, at least I guess for me,
is proving that that shit is real, that whatever it is, man,
that's underneath our feet is highly intelligent.
And we don't even understand it yet.
And yet we're, you know, flying to the moon, trying to get to Mars,
all that kind of stuff.
Well, think about this, if our guts are primarily E.Coli,
if the soil profile all over the world is primarily E.Coli,
if E.Coli is the primary microbe of
like endophytic microbe and and and participant in rhizophagia,
it's like the one that like is providing nitrogen
in all the trichomes on the leaves of plants.
Like if like all that means that the genetic expression of that E.Coli
is literally going to give us a read on everything.
So instead of us looking at DNA as an expression of what that is,
we're probably going to start looking at DNA as an expression of
this whole thing, the soil, the plants, the wall,
like all these things working together, because that's what it really is.
Especially if we're doing this over over time.
Yeah, you're going to build that database over time, man.
I don't know if we're all going to.
It's going to be all of ours.
Yeah, we're all a part of it if you're growing and building soil
about slime mold like when we were young in elementary school,
we actually had to do a little experiment at a science teacher
where we did like everyone had like a plastic container
that she brought in some slime mold.
And then we had this little wet oatmeal.
We had to put it on the other side of the container
and then check it every day and watch the slime mold grow.
I was like, man, that's the craziest thing.
Fast forward to now, I think I've read recently the slime mold
is not considered classified a fungi anymore.
I think it has its own classification now, Brian, because of that intelligence.
And man, it is crazy.
Like if you put food in any kind of maze,
the slime mold will literally follow that maze.
And now the right way, it won't even go to the dead ends.
It'll follow the right path and get to that food every time.
That's crazy like intelligence.
And I watch something they were like putting different obstacles in front of it.
They were doing like saline solution and, you know, fungi won't like salt.
So the the the slime mold found a way to bridge the salt by,
you know, sacrificing itself and steadily treading across it
until enough of it survived at the end and it just grew back out big and ate the food.
Like that's how crazy, you know, slime mold is.
And I see it a lot in the soil.
You know, a lot of times it'll be, you know, look like yellow,
you know, just yellow dog throw up, you know what I mean?
And in the soil and it's a decomposer.
So when I see it, I'm happy to see a lot of people don't like to see it
because, you know, the look kind of in your in your bed.
But I don't mind seeing it at all.
Like it's pretty good.
I feel like that's the new like pat on the back, man.
You know, it used to be hitting three light and now it's more just how healthy is your soil system?
Because the cannabis is going to speak for itself when you're looking down
and there's mushrooms popping out of your stuff like that.
Exactly. So speaking about soil, I had an idea when you were talking, man.
I like I love all my guests.
They're just brilliant. They make me think like that.
So listen, have you guys tested forest floor soil?
And have you found in nature which areas kind of have the most balanced
or the best kind of soil blend, if you will, kind of where what
what kind of areas have that kind of perfect soil, if that does exist?
I think I honestly think that we're going to find benefits for for different different.
Answers to the same question.
So you can get organic matter from a variety of sources.
You can have it turn into soil.
And it's actually going to be different because of the legacy of where it came from and what it was.
You're going to have different behaviors with different clay content levels.
And same thing with sand, the size and the type of sand that you have
is going to promote more root growth.
Like river sand, you know, the big like river sand, that's like root growth,
like because it follows the path of water and it and it it drains really well.
Oh, that was a right there.
So the I mean, I get asked all the time, what's the best compost for all?
Like all contexts and everything.
And the reality is almost everything is leaning a few different directions.
And the beauty of what we do when we create something is it often leans a certain direction.
Like, oh, this compost is really bacterial.
So it's really high nitrates, actually.
So we have to be careful with that.
Maybe hit that with some EM, right, and digest those nitrates into amino acids.
Or it's really fungal or it's full of like predators, like nematodes and protozoa,
but not a lot of fungi.
And then you're like, well, I'm going to add fungal foods and then apply that on my bacterial beds
and that'll balance out.
It will.
And so when things are imbalanced, there are actually opportunities to create balance.
And so like when you're talking about your inputs, right?
Especially with create natural farming, like looking at these things, like if like, for instance,
if your stuff is high in phosphorus, it will inhibit mycorrhizal fungi's growth.
And it will like you'll do inoculants.
Sure.
But then you're using chemical fertilizers.
But then you're using compost that's high in phosphorus so that it's inhibiting it.
Like testing for these things is like incredibly important.
That was a bar right there because a lot of people, you know, I aim for balance, you know what I mean?
And I like, you know, when I reach down to soil, I love seeing mycorrhizal fungi.
And, you know, everyone loves to see that.
Some people really can't achieve that.
And by you saying that, that could be a reason.
You know, being out of balance will stop that mycorrhizal fungi growth, you know?
So maybe, you know, if you're not seeing that, maybe look there, you know?
And do you feel like that's when you don't feel like you got that optimal balance?
Is that when you need to go soil test?
Or what are your feelings on that or approach to kind of getting working with the soil, getting it sorted out?
Well, I mean, I have a Lamont NPK test kit that I have and I can do at home.
It's when we compared to university like extension centers.
And it's spot on from what I've seen.
And for home checking of nitrate levels and phosphorus levels, I think it's a must have.
Because if any time you're spiking your nitrates and you're opening up your plant to like a spiking growth with large cells,
large cells that are watery with thin cell walls, and you're going to have trouble.
That used to be called the pretty girl hand.
They flop over like that.
Yeah, weak.
Yeah, you don't want to do any work, man.
She's just over there taking up nutrients, falling over.
You know, what's bizarre is I'm a high school.
My son's in high school, so I have to be a high school teacher.
We're studying history and everything.
And the German people, that's how they responded to the SIGCHI.
They did the limp wrist thing.
And I was like, whoa, that weird, weird, creepy.
So anyway, it's unnatural.
They're all flowing down, right?
We have to stand up tall.
And the reality is that if we don't understand what like, it's that whole like a hoping thing, like hope gardening and hope organic gardening.
And they hope that the compost is good.
They hope the Korean natural farming inputs are good.
But if you don't test them, there's no way to know.
There really is no way to know.
And then all testing is formalized experiments.
They're experiments that they were able to tell, like they were able to tell that it correlated to something within the plant that they could give a test result for and then became formalized.
That means that if we understand what have are formed and how we can test our plants, then everyone can start formulating their own tests.
Because literally, citizen science is, that's what all science is always been.
And that's what people in the Canada community have been doing for the past 40 years.
They've all been citizen scientists.
They've had to be to figure it out.
Yeah, with no way to check each other's credentials.
So that's what I mean with that stuff.
There's a lot of this like, oh, well, where'd you learn that?
If you know the information, it only comes from a few sources.
And I think that's why with our show, we always like to give back, try to remind the community that this information has continued to be passed down.
I love Dr. Laine Ingham for her courage, especially before this was cool and mainstream, going up against Big Ag, not only here in Fort Collins, Colorado, but also back at the University of Georgia.
You know, something that's near and dear to my heart at that university.
She had to fight both of those Big Ag just to kind of get the information out there for what she felt was being said.
And you probably know more about that on the details than I do.
But she was shut down real quick.
And I feel like there were probably some years from my understanding where she felt defeated, but she still kept trucking down that road.
And if you've never heard of her until this day, that's somebody I think you need to watch a few of her videos.
She's on Matt's channel on YouTube.
So check that out.
Excellent interviews as well.
So just taking your information to the next level if you haven't heard of her until today.
Yeah, no, I echo that.
The reality is if we don't understand how we came to the understandings we've arrived at currently through the history and the changes in our understanding, then it's very difficult to actually push it further.
And so I always try to give not just credit, but a context and a history of how all of these understandings came about.
I mean, we go back to like potash, you know, and like making the potassium salts, you know what I mean?
Like, and that's that's that's originally alkali.
That's where the word comes from.
And when we have those rooted understandings, that A, we can develop that fluency and B, we can add to this progression.
We can participate in it with the understanding that it's a progression and it's not the end.
It's not like it's static truth, right?
Like that's the most important thing to understand that we're in a process of perfecting our understanding of these things, which means that we're going to always be layering on.
We're going to be questioning and adding to that understanding.
Yeah, we got to overstand.
We got to keep keep at it.
We can't just stop and sit on our on our laurels.
You know what we thought was the thing or what we thought work.
I love that, man.
You got to try these things.
And I say that all the time.
You have to take bits and pieces of everybody's stuff that you like, that you've read, that makes sense to you and then try it and then and then use what works and keep doing it and then try a little bit more.
Keep you know, that's where you become the master of your garden.
You know, you become kind of like you say, Matt, the principal, you know, where you're you know, you're in control of things out there.
But to me, you got to know, you know, if these things work, you know, are you wasting your time?
Are you just culture and something that won't live or, you know, are you what do you think about that?
Like, because I always, you know, natural farming, we're all about IMO and collecting that.
Do you feel like it's important to first get that IMO kind of your local colonies, get your soil established and then mess around with the EMS and adding or you like let's go ahead and get busy right away with the fancy stuff.
So this is IMO.
OK.
This is IMO before it goes into IMO too.
And it's it's really important to like for me to understand things pretty through and through.
And so I'm working right now on mapping out more of Korean natural farming down to the microbes.
And what's wild is most of what we see when we see IMO one that fluff is rice malt.
That's rice malt.
It's not indigenous, but what's in it is.
So the bacteria that gets up taken inside the body of the rice malt, the rhizopus is the indigenous microbes.
So they're actually a combination.
IMO is a combination of rice malt.
Which is a very it's rhizopus is a zygomatic.
It's a very efficient decomposer.
That's why these things break down so fast.
But at the same time, these bacteria that are coming up through the ground that are inside these these hyphal strands.
And I'm going to keep testing and do more work.
But that's that's actually awesome.
I know people are like, wait, that's you broke the mystery.
But no, this means that we can actually pick what bacteria goes in.
And now we can tailor our collections.
We could have like tailored vermicompost collections that we put the IMO box on top of.
And then the hyphae that comes out of it has bacteria from the worms digestion from whatever we want in there.
I mean, if you have them digest insect frost, there might be chitinase creating bacteria inside that that might actually digest.
Whoa. We'll see what happens.
But the insect frost might be crazy, actually.
That sounds delicious. You know what I mean? Sounds like something I want to try.
But so, yeah, I like what the way you said that rice malt.
And so that fuzzy collection, I get it.
But remember, bacteria and those microbes, those are the ones we can't see.
So you're seeing the threads and the fuzz is one thing.
But you're no, no, no, no, no. You can see the bacteria inside the inside when they change.
Yeah, yeah. I'm naked eye with the naked eye.
When you look at your box of rice. Oh, yeah. Yeah.
No, you can't see it with the naked eye. No, no, no. You're right.
You see that white fuzz. But you're saying and what makes a lot of sense is we're also collecting bacteria.
That's going inside that fuzz was on a tiny level that you could only see.
And that's the IMO. The white fluff from it.
Is is Rhizobus and or Zygoma Kota.
And so I and I'm talking to my colleges about this, talking to professors, doctors and other people in the field.
And it it's actually a great thing.
It's because we can program it like with anything.
And it's like, oh, it's indigenous bacteria from here, indigenous bacteria from here.
But it's also could be you could create your own.
You could create like just like, OK, think about this.
When we do these IMO collections, you're collecting what's there.
What if you had the opposite where you created an IMO collection where it wasn't the stuff that's there, was the stuff that's missing?
And then you applied that that would have a completely different like reaction.
And you could give it in the modality of all the IMOs.
So these are things that like.
They just they become very obvious when you have this understanding and also what I'm doing more with this, the DNA testing, the microscopy work has opened up so many like avenues for deep understanding.
Like, I'll ask like people who have been doing microscopy for 40 years.
I'm like Mike Amaranthus. I was like, listen, when you have like the tip of the spitzing corporate and it's digesting, you know, the phosphorus bearing minerals and extracting that.
Are there bacteria like all around it, like feasting on the solubilized phosphorus like hyenas and the lion is the and he was like, oh, now that you mention it, they do crowd around there.
And I was like, wow. And he never thought about that.
So so this is a space that I think going back to the different methodologies and ways of thinking, the modalities of intelligence and really like.
My son is fluent in music. His modality for music is absolutely incredible.
He's coming out with like 12 albums this year. He's 16.
He's he taught himself to play, builds his own instruments. And it's like there's different modalities of understanding.
And I think that the science world was dominated by these very more rigid thinking, more.
Is it left brain or I don't know the whole brain thing right now, but but but, you know, the engineer brain and then there's a whole question about that.
But but but they're much more rigid in the way they think. And for me, I'm like, what about this? What about?
And they're like, wow, I never thought about that. I'm like, really? Really?
Like over and over again for years now, I keep being like, and no one asked that question.
If you're asking questions, what is when you're asking hell of a questions right there?
You know what I mean? And they don't and they haven't even thought of it yet.
I got a question now. So you got me thinking again. Sorry to cut you off, but I got to.
So we took our rice collection, right? Got that fuzzy rice.
Now we want to, you know, you add it with your sugar. Now you got your IMO to set on the shelf.
Let's say now you want to go do that liquid IMO. Now, this might turn some shit on its head, too.
When I'm looking at that liquid IMO and I see spore at about 12 hours and I see a little bit lengthening growing spore 20 hours and about 36, I'm seeing branches of looks like hyphae in my slide.
Am I just growing rice mold or are we also collecting fungi up in that rice?
I'd have to see it, but it's probably rise of us. It's probably as I get my quota because this is Trump's process.
You know, the liquid IMO. And that's kind of I was wondering if you run that by him.
You know, you guys check. He's been using a microscope longer than I have.
He's been using it for over a dozen years. And so we do talk all the time.
I'm annoying, though. Like I'll send these guys like pictures. I'm like, what is this? And they'll be like, I don't know.
And I'll be like, you guys don't know. And then I'll go and buy four books.
And don't tell my wife, OK? I go and buy like the crazy expensive books and then I go through them and then I find them and I find out who these things are.
Because. No one else willing to do it. And so like just like with the DNA testing was like seven grand, it's like crazy, but like I did it because no one else was willing to do it.
And so like that's been one of my own personal principles. It's like if someone's if everyone's kind of nervous or frightened to do something and you know it's the right thing to do, you are the person that's supposed to stand up and do it.
And as a teacher, I always was like, oh, I got to be the role model. I've got to be the one to demonstrate.
And so. By the way, when you're adding the sugars to your IMO to your adding yeasts because cerveza yeast is an endophyte found in sugar cane like everywhere.
But that's why the Brazilian chicasa or sugar cane.
Yeah, I know what you're talking about.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And hey, can I ask it? Can I throw something in here, Matt, if you don't mind?
Yeah, come on.
Yeah, actually. Great question.
Saccharomyces saccharomyces are a very common bacteria in the world.
is a refined product is actually produced from beets because the highest concentration of sugar per thing.
So would we be seeing similar bacteria that would be in the beet sugar that we would see in cane sugar?
Yeah, actually. Great question.
Saccharomyces cervicaea is wild.
It's everywhere. It's an endophyte that's ubiquitous.
It's why it's covering the grapes.
You know, that's why I mean, it's literal.
That's why you can put bread dough on the windowsill and you get wild yeast on it.
Right. Like it's because it's everywhere.
And it's wild because, you know, a lot of the literature will say like, oh, you know, yeast in your compost are bad.
And it's like, yes, there are fundamental cycling pattern of nature.
And the fact that it's endophytic to almost all plants is like and I say almost all because we haven't tested everything.
Right. So but but everything we're testing, it's it's an endophyte.
It just puts us in a.
So many of the things that we do.
We're amplifying what's kind of already there, like we're following the logic of like alcohol.
Like like yeast, all these things are present in the plants and like they're just waiting to happen.
It's incredible. And same thing with a set of a set of bacteria, like like a set of acid producing bacteria.
Right. Like that's already in the plant.
It's already in the fruit.
And so it's it's it opens up a completely different world when you start identifying these aspects.
And so I really for me, I.
I rely upon understand I rely upon understanding things micro to macro to do things that add an improvisational level.
So like I use the bio fertilizers from EM like a poor like I'll have a five gallon thing.
Right. And this is quite a much style. Right.
So I'm doing a five gallon like thing. It seals on top.
I am. But I the way I do it, he's getting wild water.
I do reverse osmosis water or no filtered water with aqua rain.
And what I do is I add. Actual purple non-sulfur bacteria culture.
I don't add the bio ceramic super syrup powder that he used to recommend because it's 20 percent alumina.
And when you take alumina down to three point five in liquid, it makes the aluminum available.
Not good. Not good. And the thing is, you can do biochar dust and get the same effect.
And the thing is, it's it's really about the size, the dust itself.
Dust creates a force field around it because a small particle is the stronger.
The like this is why clays get hydro hydrophobic. And so it's like biochar dust, rock dust.
These are excellent things to be adding. I add I add them.
So I do things based up. I do think some really different from everyone else because of all the research I've done.
So pure culture. I have an EM that I'm carrying forward always as a mother culture.
I'm adding rock dust. I'm adding sometimes kelp. I'm adding sometimes insect frass.
It depends on what I'm about to use it for. I mean, sometimes I'll even do a smaller version of this and I'll be adding like manure.
Like powdered manures. And that will like in two days be turned into amino acids and blown up like a giant ball.
Like going to explode on me. And it's like nerve wracking to open.
But it's the best. It's incredible. So. So I really trust the microbes I know.
What other microbes do I add into there? I've been adding EM three.
I want to see how this does. I've been. Oh, yeah.
I add I add waterkeeper grains and a waterkeeper like shots.
I don't add too much because it's so vinegary. If I was a fresher batch that I had, I've got bottled.
But the bottle is also where it changes its aspects. So, again, I think that there's more nuance to like waterkeeper.
It's a tangent, I know, but it's the same idea here where freshwater keeper is going to be totally different than the capped and aged waterkeeper.
And I know we love the taste of the aged waterkeeper, but there's a reason it's healthier.
You know what I mean? Or and it's also the reason why it does different things.
But the same thing is the case for like all these ferments.
And so I do the fermentative path because I have biological controls.
I know what's going in. I know who they are.
And I literally can pull up the scope and be like, there's my yeast. They're giant.
You all you all can tell yeasts. And then there's my purple and silver bacteria.
It's obvious once you develop an eye for it. And and so you can identify all the the biological like and then like the acid bacteria.
Also, is is these things all all you can identify them?
So and and and it's because we bring them in and they're from these isolated cultures.
And you should know that like isolated cultures aren't pure.
There's always a little bit of something, you know, and all of our inoculants from mycorrhizal inoculants as well.
But but like that's like what I do when I create a bio fertilizer mix.
And that's what I rely upon. Primarily, I do inoculants.
I inoculate everything with mycorrhizal and I have different so many different kinds of mycorrhizal fundae right now.
But but I'm always inoculating things. I'm always using the bio fertilizers that I'm brewing and mapping out the Korean natural farming.
The thing is, I've worked with Chris Trump for like seven years.
Represent you having him represent in my courses, Korean natural farming.
And I've been learning from him and applying things as I go and testing things out.
So I've seen his progress and I've seen his results. And I know Korean natural farming works.
How it works is so incredibly important because understanding how it works will allow us to continue the progression.
This is the progression. It's not magic.
Master Cho learned from three Japanese teachers that were natural farming experts.
So he is just like me, where he learned from people who came before and then he's combining their understanding into this.
And then we're going to do the same thing.
You guys are going to take from me, from other people that Jeff Lohman, someone mentioned, like, and then you're going to combine them and go deeper.
I love it. Jeff's a friend. It's he he it was pretty wild.
His last book, he was like, Matt, thank you so much for your book.
It showed me Rhizophagia. I just wrote the fourth book of my trilogy because of it.
And I was like, wait. What?
Well, I reference him in all my books. It's like the person that I learned from.
Yeah, so that was like one, you know, that's kind of a thing, you know what I mean?
Learn a little bit, teach a little bit.
Well, in the environment that that the cannabis community is in, in the environment that I do believe is the future,
the community solutions based environment of growth is so open and empowering and kind.
It allows us to. And I think that it's such a fragile place.
The Facebook, Twitter place of like who's right game, you know, such a fragile place to be.
It's so much richer to be in a place of humility and openness and care and questioning.
Because, man, we've gotten so much further in the past 15 years with that than 50 years before, you know?
Yeah, man, definitely. So what do you think about what's your response to?
OK, you use a lot of the, you know, microbial products to two part question.
Are they just food for what's in that soil? Because they probably won't live.
And when you look at soil, when you scope it later, are you identifying what's in those bottles later on still surviving in your soil?
Yeah. So that's how I got those inoculation pictures going.
So extreme gardenings, I was able to use that to inoculate roots and then take pictures.
What I was doing was I was dusting seeds and then putting them in between.
And this is a great method that I'm just about to give away, I guess.
Damp paper towels. This is what we used to do germination tests with at Baker Creek Heirloom Seeds.
So a Ziploc bag, not fully closed in a warm area on top of a fridge or something.
Damp cloth. But I would dust the damp cloth with inoculant all over the seeds and then close it.
And so the inoculant would be wet, it would be activated and it would be on the seeds and the root would come out and interact with that first.
And so I was able to then to evaluate the efficacy of that inoculant.
And then also there's two ways to do this. You either look at the raw inoculant, which I've done, I did live on my YouTube.
And you really want fragments. And this is why extreme gardening is good, because they don't have spores.
They have propagules, which is fragments of roots that are inoculated.
This is what Mike Amaranthus recommends. And he is like the godfather of the mycorrhizal understanding and movement and inoculation in general.
That's a gold bar because you know what the thing was, it used to be like, well, you're dumb if you buy mycorrhizal fungi, it's not going to be alive because it's not attached to root.
So they've gone ahead and now inoculated the root and then now you can buy this. That's ingenious right there.
Yeah. And so all the other ones like micro, micro, mycos, micro, mycos, the yellow and blue one.
Mycos, I think it's called.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. They're like spores. And so when does a spore, you know, sporulate?
And can you prove that it's going to, once you put it in there, can you catch it?
Like the conditions for like what makes a spore like sporulate, we have mapped out to a degree and there are these general rules.
But in situ and in reality, it's not like that.
Because think about this. The root growth is so fast that whatever processes are happening in the, in terms of the root growth, unless they start there with it and they're in a form that's responsive to that.
They might be triggered and then starts pouring and then the root tip is all the way over there.
And that's where the acidity is. And it's alkaline over here.
This is why in the rhizosphere book, it talks about how like there's a lot of questionableness around the whole exit it's cakes and cookies thing because 90% of the exudation gets sucked back up.
That's proven. Yeah.
That's a bar.
I haven't heard that.
I haven't heard that. Give me something. Where'd you read that?
The rhizosphere second edition talks about this.
And I mean, the opening of it's brutal.
The opening of it's like, though in early days we were enthusiastic and assumed we could understand, we now understand that we were foolish.
And then it goes like through and like crack, crack, break, slam.
And like it goes through all these different things and talks about how like, well, that's a little too far.
That's a bridge too far. It recontextualizes the rhizosphere second edition.
Excellent book. What we have to understand is that it's not just coming out.
It's going back in because for a plant to put out like all that energy.
That's a loss.
The reason that it takes it back in is because it's farmed all the microbes in that field of exudation.
And it's okay.
So you're back in to then destroy all the microbes that are in the exudates.
And then it's pumping it back out through the root hairs that it now forms.
It only forms root hairs if it has rhizophagia and it's killing microbes.
They don't form root hairs unless they're attacking microbes.
So if you've got sterile soil, you don't have root hairs.
And this process is it's out and then in.
It makes sense to us.
We breathe in and out, right?
We suck in and expel.
Everything does this in life.
This is a cycle.
This is what's going on.
Of course, as it's pouring into the soil, it's taking things out.
And so it's a cycle of out and in.
That's what's happening in the soil all the time.
And at the same time, that root is traveling.
That root is going fast.
And it's the most acidic at the tip.
And then as it goes back progressively, it's more and more alkaline, which means that the exudates then are trading.
And the exchange between ions is becoming going from cations to anions.
That's huge.
So do you visualize the tip of the root then?
Okay, consuming these microbes.
But it's like an army of microbes where they're still kind of populating.
And that's recycling right at that tip.
Or are you saying that's pretty much sucking them all in and just pumping them back out?
It's all happening all at the same time.
So they're promoting them.
They're encountering them in the soil because they're heading through the soil.
But as they're encountering them, they're feeding them and promoting them.
And then the ones that are small enough are being pulled through the meristem.
And this is why you've got all these other microbes in the rhizosphere crowding around.
Because there's these microbes being pushed out through the root hairs that they can feast on.
There's these microbes that are crowding around the root tip that they can feast on as the root tip is doing its thing.
And, yeah, I can see this.
Like, that's the crazy thing about this.
This is not something that's too hard to...
The first time that I used methylene blue on a slide with a root,
I was able to see the root hair and the bacteria in the root hair being expelled.
The first time!
And so it's like, this is verifiable.
This is something I have verified.
I've gone through the inoculants.
I've gone and seen the processes micro to macro.
And I've worked with the scientists that actually, you know, in America did the work.
Because in Australia, there was the initial discovery of rhizophagia.
But then James F. Francis, James Francis White, replicated that work and then furthered it.
So that he looked at all plants.
And rhizophagia is in all plants.
And it's primary.
That's a whole new way to look at it, man.
It was very graphic.
It makes a lot of sense.
I'll show you the picture.
Yeah.
So then when we're adding that microbiology...
That's the picture.
See it?
Okay.
That's the bacteria being expelled from a root hair.
Ah.
You can see in the root hair right there.
I'm with you now.
I'm with you now.
And so do you attribute that to possibly the...
Do you attribute that to the exudates, a coating on a plant?
Or are there also microbes that help the plant beat these other microbes up and then consume them?
No.
The plant uses superoxide within it.
And it bombards them.
And it removes their cell wall.
And they leak electrolytes, which the plant feeds upon.
Or their endophytes.
And they release nitrate.
They make nitric...
It's right here.
They release nitrogen.
And the plant...
Yeah.
So they are bombarded with superoxide.
And then they...
This is page 94 in my book.
Okay.
Is that the one regenerative soil?
Yeah.
And so I don't have the diagram with the chemistry.
The chemistry is in my YouTube channel.
I have the actual chemistry.
Because they've mapped it down.
Oh, the chemical reaction it has?
Yeah, the chemical reaction.
That's what I was looking for.
That came out after this was published, the second edition.
So he proved that section of it.
And then while that came out, he did the work proving it down to the chemistry of what the endophytes are doing to survive that process.
So that is all in regenerative soil, the course.
And you can actually watch that on my YouTube.
It's called Rhizophagy in Depth.
And it's on there.
So that diagram is on there.
But that's the thing.
Is we really have this all mapped out.
And once you actually see it from that, like this regenerative soil perspective, it feels right.
Because you can see it play out micro to macro.
And it feels natural because it is.
And because of that, it changes everything.
I have people who just bought the book and they doubled their harvest.
A university.
Like Utah State University, their permaculture gardens used it.
And then one season they doubled their yields.
I mean there's a reason why like, you know, like Compost Camp, the Compost Cup, Jethouse Gardens loves this and uses this.
It's because it allows him to navigate, interpret, understand, and then respond regeneratively.
And I think that's what we need in all regards.
I think we need a regenerative understanding of our world, but like our diets.
Of how our bodies operate.
And I think that there's a lot of people like we talked about earlier that are like trying to capitalize on things and take things and like just sit on them.
And this happens with every breakthrough.
We have charlatans and that's always like a sign of actual like fertility I feel like is that people try to like do that.
But it's on us to stand up to get connected.
To use transparency.
To use testing.
To show what is true.
To honor the people doing the real work.
So that all of us have a, not a better chance, a real chance.
Like to stand on solid ground and to innovate.
Because that's the thing.
By keeping things so shady and murky and like foggy.
It makes it so hard for us to like make sure steps and then invest hard and try things out and experiment.
Because they're like maybe that's true.
Maybe that's true.
But if you knew that's true, that's true.
Then you're like well that's probably, that implies this.
And it's that certainty that we need to move forward as a community that's lacking.
And that fluency is what I'm all about.
I want to give people that ability.
Excellent, man.
You know, for our shows we have a smoke break at the hour and a half mark.
So we're going to bring on, you know, a homie.
I was fortunate enough to, I think it was last Thursday, have dinner with Mark.
We went to the oldest restaurant in Denver and talked about a lot of things.
And I'm proud to say that this gentleman is a family-owned business getting his stuff out there.
We've obviously partnered up.
Partnered up with Marco.
Partnered up with Mindfully Rooted, Payoneer Soil.
People that I admire for what their craft is and what they're doing in the industry.
So we're going to do a giveaway.
This is Friends with Benefits.
This is a brand-new shirt that he's, you know, rocking.
And then, of course, one of his biodiversity packs.
Let me.
I probably should just show.
I just got one of those not that long ago.
Yeah, I'm rocking.
And you guys, I don't want to, you know, dump this on my computer or anything,
but you'll probably see in a second that a bunch of rogue beetles will start to come to the top.
This is top-notch stuff.
There's a lot of individuals out there that suffer from fungus stats, whether it's, you know,
you're growing cannabis or you're in the reptile world.
But we're both building soil systems.
And so that's the one thing that we have in common.
And the fungus stat issue is the other thing that I've, you know,
the cannabis world could teach the reptile world that this is an easy fix for the most part when you're using Mother Nature to combat Mother Nature.
So I want to kick it over to London, live, obviously, from Italy.
This is our first show with London live from Italy.
So excited for that.
Excited for a lot of the stuff in the future.
And then we'll be right back with the giveaway from MI Beneficials.
Thank you, Brian.
And I will run the commercials now.
And you guys have a great time.
Don't go anywhere.
Nobody go anywhere.
It's more fun that way.
All right, we are back.
I am packing some stuff that MI Beneficials gave me last week.
Smoking on that tangy.
Also got that GMO, sir.
My camera isn't that great, to be honest.
Trying to pick up the details.
But you guys.
Oh, man, he went all blue.
So I can't even show you the logo.
But, yeah.
I can do it.
There we go.
Let me pull you over there, Mark.
Yeah, so that's my homie Kyle with Organimeltz.
Yeah, it was a pleasure seeing you, man.
And great to see you, Marco.
What's up, Mark?
Good to see you, buddy.
Yeah, dude.
Always a pleasure.
Yes, sir.
I ain't seen nobody lately, man.
You got to come over here if you want to see me.
Yeah, I see you all the time.
So it's weird.
That's all right.
Glad to have you on, brother.
Yeah, for sure, dude.
Thanks for having me, guys.
So this is the shirt that he's going to be giving away.
Friends with Benefits.
You know, the reason why Mark kind of stands out to me is not only is he being an entrepreneur,
doing his own thing, but it's more of the marketing, the branding, the stuff that I
think is lacking, to be honest, in a lot of the cannabis stuff, or it's paid for with
a lot of wasted money sometimes.
So if you're able to not only be the entrepreneur, but also be the entrepreneur that has a little
insight into marketing and branding, then you're ahead of the game against most of these
individuals, especially when money matters.
And for most of us that have a family, every little dollar matters.
So this is getting that stuff out there.
I think if you guys look at his reviews online, on my website as well, people are loving this stuff.
One lady even said she was super skeptical and now is a believer.
So to trust the process, believe in Mother Nature, for a lot of us that's easy to do once we've seen it
with our own eyes.
But for somebody that's just the soccer mom, lacrosse mom, trying to better the bearded
dragon's cage, that's a leap forward in trying to understand how the bioactive systems work.
So I wanted to let Mark kind of talk about his product for a second, the biodiversity packs.
We'll do the giveaway and then we'll get right back with Mr. Powers.
For sure, man.
Yeah, so Friends With Benefits is the design that we kind of came up with.
When I say we, I mean me and my two and my three-year-old, which this really isn't an
appropriate graphic for them.
But as you can see, it's two rove beetles sharing a little smoke after a little love.
And then there's some Benny Boost on the ground there, which I had to throw that in there too.
Yeah, let's put that in the mix.
Yeah, dude.
Yeah, for sure, Marco.
I'll have to shoot you one of these too.
I just got a limited amount of them.
So shoot me, send me a DM with your size and I'll get you one, no doubt.
Definitely.
I'd love the support, bro.
I'll do that.
Yeah, and then, you know, it's not really about like the, I'm not trying to be about
like, you know, kitschy, you know, pokey marketing like that.
That's really just for fun for me to be able to share stuff like that.
Like this is truly what I'm passionate about because of the impact that it has in people's
lives with the fungus gnats.
But in living like and that's really what it translates to across the board for a lot
of cannabis growers, because if you're at a, you know, if you're growing at a commercial
level, you can't have investors breathing in fungus gnats as they walk through the facility.
It's a bad look, even though it's not maybe a horrific actual problem.
It doesn't look good ever.
So, but more importantly, the thing that really kind of captivated me with these beneficials
is the impact that it has on your nutrient cycling and your soil health.
And you start to see that stuff over a long period of time.
So, something I'm really excited about, I don't want to soapbox because I know you guys
got somebody that's got a lot more knowledge than I do.
And I want to get back to listening to Matt.
So, you ain't soapbox and I'll tell people straight up, I just ordered from you not that
long ago.
You know, I mean, if I got fungus gnats, I'm ordering from them, you know, straight up.
Well, I appreciate that, man.
I always appreciate your business and, you know, glad it's working out for you guys for
sure.
So, the way we're going to do this, I guess, is I'm going to pull up a random number generator.
We're going to do one through a thousand.
Everybody gets one guess in the chat.
And I'm going to give you about, let's say, two minutes.
Everybody casts their guess.
And in two minutes, I'll just pull this random number generator and we'll pull a winner.
And the winner is going to get a size, whatever size they want, the Friends with Benefits shirt.
The only size I don't have right now is a large.
They like sold out real fast.
So, if that doesn't work, I got hats.
I mean, if we need to work something out.
But, and also, you're going to get a biodiversity pack to try out as well.
So, one through a thousand.
One through a thousand.
Go ahead, enter it in the chat now.
And we'll shut this down in two minutes from right now.
And in the meantime, how are you boys doing?
Show's awesome.
Yeah, thanks, man.
Yeah, appreciate it.
Yeah, hanging in there.
Glad to get somebody like Matt today.
That was a fucking great guess.
Good job, Brian.
Yeah, man, we're over here doing the work behind the scenes.
So, I hope the community sees.
If you guys continue to voice your opinions, you know, of course, not everybody has time
and they're not going to be able to hear you.
But, you know, we're going to be doing this.
So, we're going to be doing this.
And we're going to be doing this.
And we're going to be doing this.
So, if you guys continue to voice your opinions, you know, of course, not everybody has time
and effort or wants to be on the show, to be frank.
And we respect all of that.
But if there are individuals that want to come on here that we maybe never reached out
to or somebody that you think behind the scenes, we're trying to make that happen.
So, get your numbers, get your guesses in.
We'll get the number behind the scenes.
And then we'd love to have your feedback with Mark's product.
Again, like I mentioned, you can go to his website, see that it's unbelievable reviews,
verified reviews.
I think that makes a difference in this day and age.
It's like, okay, yeah, you can have five-star reviews.
But are they verified?
Is it an actual person?
And that's something that he has on his website where you can see the person's name, their
first initial of their last name, and where they purchased the product from.
So, when you start to see that these individuals are from all over the country, that's what
we are talking about for the building that national brand, going from just an entrepreneur,
mom and pop, yourself, hobby type stuff, then getting it to the next level where you're
actually making a living for yourself is becoming a national brand.
And that doesn't necessarily mean you have to be the biggest brand and all this kind
of stuff.
The reality is, is even 10, like 10 orders a day, 15 orders a day, depending on your
price point, you're living a very comfortable lifestyle, really no matter what you're selling.
So, you've got to find those skill sets to take things forward.
I've seen Mark not only take his skill sets of his product, but maybe take some friendly
advice.
Jumping on Shopify makes a huge difference from the platforms that you're on.
And I think that's the murky water that a lot of us that maybe have grown up with plants
so much, we don't understand the tech side as best we can.
So, to be able to have that and kind of move forward, migrate through all that stuff, I
think for you, if an entrepreneur, Shopify is what you need to learn and you will quickly
find out that if you have something that people want, that will continue to grow each and
every month, just like your soil system.
Yes.
Well said.
All right.
Well, it's been two minutes, so let's roll this so you guys can get back to your show.
All right.
I'm going to just put the camera on the screen here.
This is not the number.
I haven't hit anything yet.
So, can you guys see this?
A little far.
Yeah, we'll be able to see it when the number hits.
Yeah.
All right.
Number 686.
Boom, boom, boom.
686.
So, what's the best way to do this?
Should I search through the comments and find the-
I got you, brother.
Are we doing like prices right rules where it's like as close to without going over?
Without going over, right.
Yeah.
If we all agree on that, then yes.
This is going to be fine and good, man.
And A, this stuff is for sale on the site.
So, if you don't get one, we certainly do appreciate the support.
It's a great quality shirt.
So far, yeah.
That's who I saw as well.
Who you all got?
I think it was Roman Reckless without going over.
No, he went over, bro.
686.
Oh, 686.
Okay.
Good deal.
Did anybody come closer than Roman?
I don't believe it.
There was a Brian Hammer that went the evil route, but he got passed up by Roman.
I believe Roman Reckless got 689.
It is the closest without going over.
Unfortunately, Howard Earwig.
Yeah, you showed up a little late, brother.
All right.
So, to Roman Reckless, reach out to Mark on Instagram.
I think that'd be the easiest way to make sure the direct communication.
And Mark is, again, fabulous with his reviews for a reason, because his communication is world class, to be honest.
So, just give him your information.
That'll be sent out to you as quickly as you can.
Thank you for your time and everything, Mark.
We'll be obviously in touch.
Thank you, guys.
Appreciate you.
Yes, sir.
Damn, man.
I love when I can order from the owner.
I know the owner.
Just like you, Brian, when I get some of my isopods, I'm coming from the owner.
I'm rolling debts.
You don't get that a lot.
Actually, I did not order something recently.
I didn't know if you wanted me to say anything.
You ordered something like yesterday or the day before.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, you still missed your coupon.
So, I was like, fuck, a $15 coupon.
Yes, I'll take that.
Yeah, hell yeah.
You want me to read it?
Yeah, let's get into it.
Okay, so this is what it says.
It says, carbon flow in the rhizosphere is not strictly unidirectional process from root to soil.
Active retrieval mechanisms for sugars and amino acids have been identified in plant roots, which were capable of recovering up to 90% of the exodus passively lost into the rhizosphere.
Four sources for that.
So, that changes the whole way it's said, because a lot of times we were saying the plant feeds out these exudates and grows the microbes, but it's actually maybe just consuming them right away.
Well, if it's cakes and cookies, this is Hansel and Gretel.
Breadcrumbs.
Right?
They're like, come on.
So, it's like, it's not that metaphor.
I don't think we can use cakes and cookies as the metaphor.
It's way too complicated and interesting.
It's like, the root hasn't, like, intent.
The root's like, where are the microbes and the nutrients?
It wants both.
Let me ask you this then, Matt, please.
Let me interrupt you.
So, are we saying now that the plant doesn't give a damn which microbes it's consuming?
Or does that still valid?
Oh, yeah.
You got the right question.
Good job.
All right.
So, this is the thing.
Exudation is a shotgun blast, a generalized shotgun blast.
And some of it's secretion and some of it's excretion.
So, that's the other thing.
Some of it's sloughed off cells.
So, like, it's a much more diverse picture.
And what happens is, is when they get into correspondence with a particular microbe that sends out signals that modulate the behavior of the root, then it's sending specifics that are in relationship to that.
But that means that, like, this is why, like rhizobia put an infection thread up into the root.
And that's why they turn a root hair into a nodule and swell it.
These pathways are infective.
So, they're going up and infecting, you know, these areas.
It's the spaces is so dynamic, but it's not been characterized properly.
And so, you have this flux of energy.
And, I mean, the reason that ions get uptaken is because protons are released.
And they just place the cations on the organic matter and then they're loose and free and absorbed by the roots.
So, it changes the charge.
Yeah, like, but it's happening at the same time as exudation.
So, H plus is acidifying.
Right?
Because that's the acidic meter.
That's what acidity is.
Protons.
And so, you're pairing that with your carbon.
Those are, you know, carbonic acids, right?
That's an energetic combination.
And actually, carbon is where energy is stored in the soil.
And that's why they contribute to creating forming soil.
But if it's still in unorganized forms, they can take it back to the soil.
Forms, they can take it back up.
But the energy is consistently just radiating out.
And this is the thing.
Everything's messy.
In nature, you know, that lion is creating this huge trophic cascade.
It's like, yeah, the hyenas.
But so do the vultures.
So do the rats.
So do the microbes and the worms.
And, you know, and it's like that's the same thing in the soil with the plant roots.
They're putting down there and it's just like, and it's like an ocean.
The waves go in and the waves come out and there's life at the ocean-like coastline, right?
The microbes are there, too, all along the rhizosphere, which is the shore of interaction of energy between the sun, the sky, and the soil.
And they're also energetically different.
The sky is positively charged and the earth is negatively charged.
And so there's this huge exchange of energies that we actually can't see with our naked eyes.
It's happening all the time.
So this greater picture, especially energetically, was what I needed to really understand things.
And it went back to the redox side of it.
And oxidation is the loss of energy.
There's three definitions for oxidation.
And like gaining in oxygen, right?
That's what most people would think.
You know what I mean?
That's actually the loss of energy.
And so that's when I realized years ago that like aerated compost is always going to create nitrates, right?
And that's why all the new compost from Millennial Ingham's folks are, you know, like 45 to 90 days of like sitting, still no turning.
That's facultative anaerobic fermentation to get their fungal numbers up and to make it so that those nitrates turn into amino acids.
But they could have just sprayed it with EM.
And then a week later, after they're finished with a hot compost, have a mature compost.
So you get all of it, though, because I love I'm a big fan of letting a pile sit on the ground.
To me, that's my number one.
Do you really get it all, you know, kind of that full circle if you just spray with EM?
Does it really take you there?
Well, what would be there?
Like that's the thing, like where and where would it come from?
Because it always comes from somewhere.
So if we're not aerating it, and aeration is a process of inoculation because there's so much stuff in the air.
But it's like, unless there's fungal foods in there, fungi won't develop.
The fungal foods are there, then why wouldn't we want them to develop in situ?
Because we're just going to break them up again.
This is what I fundamentally realized with a lot of things that we're doing.
We want to like look right in the pile.
And then we like go break up the pile and apply it.
And it's like.
Damn, that was huge.
So you don't even want to be at your apex when you're in the pile stage.
You want the pile to be kind of a step in the process.
And your final soil destination is where you want to now get all the microbial, the mycorrhizal action.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, this is like the thoughts around everyone like now in the mycorrhizal community and the mushroom community is like, oh, if you're going to make a medicinal tincture, I wouldn't wait for like things to like flare out and form a mushroom head.
As doing its antlering thing with reishi, cut it.
And so I'm cutting the reishi antlers and it's creating new antlers.
And it's all the potent energy of the growth rather than senescence and the finishing stage.
It's totally different.
So, so, yeah, no, there's there's all these new processes that are emerging out of.
Not just not just going down to to what's what's natural, but going and cross referencing with everything that's available.
So that's why I stuff like this.
This is the guy.
Wonderful job.
Incredible, incredible book.
But as he says himself, highly artificial because it's because it's morphological.
It's the way things shaped and looked.
But that's how they all teach it.
Still, this is one of the few.
This is one of the few books is like one hundred seventy two dollars.
It's on sale right now for that much on Amazon.
This book's crazy.
It's one of the few books that actually partners the phylogenic, the genetic information, the DNA information.
And so I do a lot of reading.
I don't just test things out.
I don't just go with like what's naturally there.
I go with what we've done, what could be possible so that we can because if we live with what's natural, we're like, well, we're gonna have to wait ten thousand years for the soil to come back.
You know, so we have to like use what's natural as pathways for change and also understand understanding our boundaries, you know, because as much as we can cycle and change and work with nitrogen, because 80 percent of the molecules taken up by plants will be nitrogen.
You can't do that with coal.
The wiggle room for cobalt is very, very small.
You can make toxicity.
So so it's like it's it's it's it's in this process that we see what's new in this process that we unlock what what what what's next?
Because it's always a progression.
So I it's all right.
So one of my secrets is that I.
Hey, Matt, real quick.
One one second, sir.
So our buddy London is going to Spanish tomorrow.
He just wanted to kind of like sign off because he needs to.
He's got a whole new thing.
So London, if you wanted to hop on real quick, sir.
Sorry to interrupt, man.
We got all this exciting stuff going on.
People have been asking in the DMZ if we're going to have Spanish coverage.
So London, if you could kind of address that to the community.
Awesome.
So first off, we're going to be in at Spanish, I think, for the first time ever.
So I'm going to be doing a bunch of recording.
I'll be pretty much I've set myself up.
I've got like eight cameras at the ready.
I've got audio equipment at the ready.
We are going to record a load of content.
So come by, say hello, be charming, do what you want to do.
We're going to be all over the place.
We're going to go to clubs.
We're going to do all those type of things.
But that's a little bit besides the point.
What I wanted to kind of ask Matt Powers before I left, and I did mention in the chat,
if you are going to be at Spanibus, please shoot me a text.
I don't know why I had to do it all in all caps.
But that's my European number.
It's available there.
Shoot me a text, and we will connect.
If you see me at Spanibus, give me a hug because that's like what we do.
Usually, I would give a pack of seeds with that, but I didn't bring them from Canada.
So unfortunately, you get a hug, and you get a hug back this time, not a pack of seeds too.
But what I wanted to really dig into, Matt, and what I would like to ask you is I find
that there's these similarities.
We look at the formation of an atom, our concept of the idea of what an atom is,
and it really correlates to how we look at our voice and how we look at our planets.
Can you pin that down for me?
Because are you talking about the shape of it, the classical diagram?
Oh, I got more.
You're talking about the force field one.
Oh, more in generalities.
So like if we're looking at, okay, so like the very, very traditional model,
you have your proton, neutron in the core, and then you have your electron spinning around,
and those are kind of like your planets orbiting the sun, correct?
Like that's kind of a general thing, like a general shape that I like to think about.
So when I think about, when I see things in life, I like seeing patterns.
And I don't know why my, maybe it's a natural human thing to look at patterns
and to do these things.
But when we talk about the rhizophagy cycle, right, this is, to me, looks like crop steering.
You know what I mean?
Like I crop steer, like there are groups of people growing plants to crop steer them
in a certain direction to develop a certain desired effect, product, or outcome, right?
And for me, bacteria that are ingesting bacteria, the plants that are ingesting bacteria into the roots,
some of them are dying, and then they're expelling them again, the ones that survive anyways.
That's steering that bacterial almost like crop steering, right?
That's almost human intelligence.
That's almost like, I mean, I think that's higher than human intelligence, really.
But that's beside the point.
I would love if you could dig into that a little bit more and to your opinion on that.
Because I think it's just, it's one of those things that has so many layers
and can represent so much of what we do and what we live on a normal day-to-day basis,
especially as plant people.
I want to pick the best plants out of the group.
So that's so cool.
So that's super interesting.
It's definitely a selective process, right?
So they're destroying a certain class of microbes.
They're letting a certain class of microbes regrow their cell walls.
And then the endophytes are the ones that survive and thrive in that environment.
And then they release nitrogen and CO2 and all this stuff within the plant.
This is how yeasts actually help the plant balance its sugars, right?
Purple non-sulfur bacteria helps the plant balance its, you know,
no, I mean lactic acid bacteria helps plants balance their nitrogen, right?
So what you were saying, though, was making me think of something very particular.
So rhizophagia, it is a selective process,
but we have to remember that it is a selective process of the microbes that are coming in.
So I don't know the number or ratio of who stays out versus who goes in,
in terms of abundance and volume.
So it's hard for me to say.
It's like that's the kind of thing like we have to be alert to when we get to that point for testing,
because that's how we would determine how much plants are changing the soil environment.
The thing is, it's pretty universal from what James Francis White is seeing across microbes.
Like there's these biofertilizing microbes and they're universal to large swaths of plants.
And so I but I would imagine that there are particular microbes that have would have particular affinity to certain roots and root hairs and soil environments and climates.
And that within that, there could be room for a lot of expression,
because bacteria is the, you know, the quote black box, right?
You don't know what's in it.
It's carrying all the nutrients at it and then it keeps going.
It keeps creating more of itself, but it's all the nutrients are locked up.
You've got to release them.
And so this is a way that you actually could.
Or you are or consortium of microbes that you then load with the minerals and nutrients that you need for that plant at that growth stage.
So this is what Kvodimuk is doing where he's taking EM consortium descendants, I should say, of EM.
He has his own blend basically now.
And he's giving it like nitrate rich, like the bat guano for the vegetative.
And then he's switching to phosphorus for later on for when it's when it's producing flower and reproductive growth.
And so it's like bird guano, you know what I mean, over there.
And he's using the microbes not to not just change it into amino acids.
They're embodying it.
So when rhizophagia occurs, they're releasing those, those, those nutrients, those specific nutrients.
So, so that's another layer to this.
So the ratio of who's on the outside, who's on the inside, and then the chain of secession.
We know that certain microbes are synergetic.
And so you have certain bacteria and fungi that actually work together and work better when they are together, facilitate each other or, or allow for the other.
Like Trichoderma opens up Brassica to allow for our bus to go back to the fungi to inoculate it.
Like these relationships are stacked and secessional and partnerships that are three or more parties involved.
And because of how linear we've been thinking in so much of science, we've studied like these things in isolation or in a Petri dish.
And in nature, they're like, oh, well, Trichoderma facilitates a bus to go back to rhizophagia, getting to the Brassica.
But it's like, we, we only seen that recently because people are, I've been testing because people are playing because people are actually allowing these things to happen and observing them.
So, so I really feel strongly that we need to map these things out.
I don't know if I answered the question.
You may be. I got a question.
So I guess now maybe part of your thought process or future experimentation is does say cannabis like a specific microbe?
And do you think that would change because everybody's soil is a little different.
If my soil is here, your soil is there.
With the cannabis in my soil, potentially like a different microbe combination in your soil.
I guess that would be related.
Every term related.
OK.
So the thing is, when I talked to James Francis White about this, he's studying hemp.
He's studying cousins of cannabis and he's studying cannabis.
He's in New Jersey.
And the, the trichomes, which are just plant hairs, all plant hairs are called trichomes.
How all of them have nitrogen fixing bacteria inside them.
And so when I talked to him about this, he was like, he was laughing.
He was like, yeah, they're, they're, they're vaporizing and smoking the microbes.
And I was like, well, then what are the terpenes?
Are they like, like, like he was like, well, that's their communication.
Think about that.
That's the communication.
So the stress, the, the way we tweak things a little bit this way, a little bit this way, more predation, more bacteria, more fungal, a little bit of light stress, like different color spectrums of light at different time periods of growth.
Simulating different types of stress.
All these things are actually going to give us, if they're light enough.
And they're in that Goldilocks range of hormetic stress.
Hormetic stress is like the good kind of stress.
Like we're going to go work out together.
And it will rip our muscles, but the, the ripping's good because it'll heal and we'll be stronger.
That's hormetic stress.
And so like, we're going to find how to do this and we're going to have such incredibly tailored and potent cannabis.
I mean, and I know that people are like are caught up on genetics, but the more I learn about genetics, the more interesting it is for us to actually get into what I was into initially, which is open pollinated heirloom seed saving and, and breeding.
And Sonoma, I knew someone with a feral cannabis, like orchard, like for food forest.
It was like all feral cannabis and it was all hermaphroditic and it was constantly putting off buds and it was immune to the, the, the, the bud rot.
And which came from the grape orchards and, and, and that's microbial.
That, that, that's them getting in a communication link with the soil and the environment long enough to go, oh, well, this microbe, this, the soil nutrient, all of that, that consortium, the plants figure these things out when we do seed saving over time.
We know this, all gardeners know this.
What we need to do is we need to build that into a more, we need to go down to the micro micro to macro level of this so we can map it out.
And I know you guys are going to do it.
The, the cannabis community has been a leaders in all of this, all like all of this stuff you guys have been testing.
And that's the thing.
Like I said at the beginning, the university ag fields that all the studies are based off of are managed by grad students that have been there like what, two years.
And you guys are the ones investing in this.
What I want to, what I've been doing and what this trilogy really is about is to give us the lenses and the, our soil database is about to give us the platform to see clearly, to have clarity as a community, to be able to ask really good questions and get those answers from the actual community feedback data so that we can, we can, we can see these things, prove them out, but then figure out where the limits are.
Because so many of these things that we're like, oh no, this works.
We know it works.
Well, what are the, what are the limits on it?
How much does it work?
Yeah.
How much does it work?
That's right.
That's right.
Let me get back to, let me get back to the herbs, please.
Because I say, and this is before I heard you speak, man, I say, you know, turps are tiny organic compounds, right.
Produced by the flower tip.
I say, there's also a corresponding end of that on the root tip, which is tiny chemical compounds.
And I said, that was kind of the exit date.
And so now that you said what you said, and there's nitrogen fixing bacteria on both ends.
Just talk more about that, man, because my mind is kind of right there.
You know what I'm saying?
Totally.
So think about this.
If a plant, if you remember Elaine Ingham always said, spray the whole plant with a compost tea and fortress all of the surfaces.
Why would they persist there if there wasn't an exudation on the surface?
There is.
And so just like our skin is like porous, the plant surface is porous.
And so when we look at these things, we have to understand that plants that get preyed upon are leaky.
So like the nitrates, they leak out.
And that's why those suckers come and start digging at that interconnection between a cell that's leaking that out.
And they start sucking out the nitrates.
That's what those chewers and suckers do.
They're nitrate feeders.
Simple sugar feeders as well.
That's what the aphids are doing.
And so it really is the case that there's a constant feedback loop with the world around on all surfaces, which makes sense.
Everything as you go down in magnification and down, down into the quantum, everything's porous.
It's like we're actually a collection of energy fields.
You know what I mean?
And so it's really important to keep that in mind, that all these things are happening all at once.
The plant is releasing.
It can't help it.
The reason plants get preyed upon is they're leaky.
And what they're leaking is signs that they can be eaten.
So they're releasing leaking nitrates, ammonia, and simple sugars.
And those simple sugars feed bacteria and the pathogens.
It's the more complex sugars, the longer chains of sugars, not the monosaccharides, the polysaccharides that are actually the indigestible kind of sugars that make the plant immune to predation.
So that's the  and when they put those out.
You're saying they almost get chemically to the pest.
The pest doesn't want that form of sugar.
They can't digest it.
And not only that, they can't see the plant.
They can't sense it because they're going off of is like the  well, there's an argument about what they're going off of.
But they're either going off of the energy fields that are pinging out like say to eat me, eat me, you know, or it's the smell of it.
But there's something there that's attracting them across leagues to kill that plant.
And it's because that plant is letting it know and it's through the nitrates, it's through the simple sugars, the monosaccharides, that it's signaling its own death.
So that's why we do all that work.
But then when we create endophytes all over the plant inside these trichomes, they're going to interact with the environment and the air is over 70% nitrogen.
And all endophytes fix nitrogen.
So if they're in the trichomes fixing nitrogen, they're feeding the plant.
This is how we've got Scotch broom growing in the most terrible soil and 10 feet tall and you're like what is this thing?
It's because it is bocalderia in the leaves, a nitrogen fixer.
And it's literally fixing nitrogen out of the air and making protein.
Oh, its relationship with that specific microbiology is the key to its life.
Yeah, bocalderia. That's why it's a pest and it can grow in any soil.
That's why you can't talk with it.
It just needs it for a footing. It's like I just need the foot hair. And then it just uses the air.
So it's actually much more sensible than what we talked about before.
And they link together all of our proven understanding in such a way that allows us to use it functionally and go further.
And that's why continuously my students, myself, a lot of the compost companies that have enrolled in the course.
I have a lot of compost company like owners in my courses and they're like applying all this stuff.
Yeah, yeah, I'm excited because we're going to get such sophisticated compost and biofertilizer mixes out of this.
But it's really going to come out of this is the thing.
Watch this. If suddenly we've got the our soil database, there's 100,000, 200,000 people involved.
We've got over a million tests. We've got all this crazy data.
People are like, oh, my gosh, in our bioregion, we need this. I'm over here.
That's cool information. My bioregion needs this.
Suddenly we need bioregional composter and biofertilizer makers that are focused on the biology per bioregion and climate.
And that level of nuance and sophistication creates more jobs.
And it's not competition. And it's like we need to create a gold rush around biology, around entrepreneurship, small business.
Because this is the only way out of the matrix.
This is the only way out of the system that's designed to prevent us from owning land, to prevent us from like passing on legacies to our children.
And and it's a it's been a wedge in our communities.
And and when we say communities, our local businesses are the linchpin in all community functions.
When we play baseball when we were kids, we all wore the hats and this was a sponsor of a local business.
You know, it was a local like Italian, like like dryer or something like that.
And, you know, and it's like these are our primary tools.
And it starts with us. And the most beautiful thing about this is when you own your own business, when you are the actual creator and generator,
you get to be way more generous than you've ever, ever been able to be because you make it.
Whatever the thing is, you make it. And so it's cheap for you.
And so you see people in real need and you're like, I'm going to help you out.
You help them out and it's a real help for them.
And and that's just part of good community. And it happens naturally.
It's easy and it's part of this incredible transformational process of owning your business.
I'm on. Man, I'm on like year. I'm on year eight, I think, of being my own business owner.
It's so incredibly important. And I, I was a high school English teacher for sophomores.
So I was the guy to help them get ready to go out and prepare for real life.
And so I was like, these guys need the fundamental tools to interpret, make good decisions and then like understand the world.
And then I was like, oh, my gosh, they're not they don't have there's like no path for them.
And so I realized I had to create this this curriculum.
And that's what I created with permaculture so that people could have have all these jobs.
I created the regenerative entrepreneur, the regenerative career guide for guidance counselors.
And the soil is so fundamental and such a linchpin that when I've been talking about oxidation as a liberation of energy, all oxidative stress is related to inflammation and cancer.
So all disease is related to inflammation and oxidation. Oxidation is the loss of energy.
When we're eating foods that are really healthy, they often call them antioxidant rich foods.
These are high energy rich, they're resistant to oxidation foods.
I mean, and as and I know we breathe right, we're bringing oxygen because that's how we're we're we're that's what breathwork does to awesome.
But it primes our body because we're getting the way that we release energy working.
It's it's how all energy works.
So we need to have really rich fuels.
We need to understand the world around us has fundamentals that are micro to macro soil to body plant across all plants.
And we're just beginning to understand them.
And once you see it, you can't unsee it.
Like it's wild.
Like the whole thing about like antioxidants, you suddenly are like, oh, that's why I like that food.
That's why. And then you look at the antioxidant, the highest antioxidants.
It's all our herbal medicines.
It's all the bitters.
Wow. So it's a fight.
You should be taking the bitters, but they're not, you know, they don't taste good.
Back to. So, Matt, you just created a link because I always say I think our food should be grown regionally.
Your food shouldn't be coming from so far, you know, some regional aspect to it.
And then for you to say regional compost kind of distributors or factory, you know, factories, for lack of a different term.
Yeah, that's that's brilliant, man.
And I think those two things really could do a lot, man.
They're going to create jobs. Right.
Like you said. And then you're going to give people access to food, more antioxidants to, you know, heal yourself.
I mean, these things, man, I'm I'm on board with you.
I'm down. I'm a fan.
So as far as what you're spitting out, you know what I mean?
Like you're spitting out real talk and you're doing action.
You know, it's not just like what you think is going to happen.
I mean, you're going deep. You're testing these things.
Now, for the average guy, do you feel like and I got a couple of questions, but we'll save them for later.
But for the average grower, compost maker, how deep do you think it's necessary to go?
Do you think it's necessary to go Matt Powers deep or, you know, as far as scoping, understanding knowledge?
Right. Once you go this deep and you have that understanding of like the way the world works energetically.
You you fundamentally realize the way we've been taught, the way we think about things.
It's not backwards. It's completely off the page.
And. Yeah, I honestly this changes everything.
Like I would say, get this book and.
I've had such wonderful, wonderful things said about this book.
It's it's it's my best book. I I've I I wrote it during the lockdowns here in America.
And I. I escaped from the world in that book.
And I just kind of was like, OK, and that was 2020 was that book.
And it changed everything for me. I see the world differently.
That's the thing. I see food different. I see my body differently.
I. And it's it's for what it offers.
I it's worth every every penny and it will change you and change your understanding of you read it.
So so I mean, I think that that's that's definitely a definite level.
The microscopy could be like individuals in that community that that can help you with soil testing.
That's totally cool. People are doing labs all the time. We don't necessarily have to go.
But but I worry. I worry about doing just enough because.
The world we live in right now, it gets brought up every once in a while how toxic it is.
You guys are PFAS is PFAS.
So they're like polyfluoride, like alkaline chemicals.
Oh, forever. Yep. Yep. They're the forever. Yeah.
So so these forever chemicals they like produce starting in the 40s and 50s.
And they're over like five thousand different ones. And none of our tests show up like like except for this one company.
In partnership with the EPA. And as we've seen with Ohio, you know, you can't trust the EPA.
And so if they're the only person that tests like, how can we trust like that?
So I have like a huge issue. And so I feel like I don't have a calibration on how serious the problem is.
I might be buying a twenty thousand dollar XR XRF X-ray metal tester analyzer that will tell me the heavy metals in all my soil samples.
This would be a game changer in my testing, but it would also allow us all to like be able to have a better understanding of like what.
Because I'm asking people to send samples in from everywhere so I can create maps.
And I I worry. I really worry because the more I've learned from like Lead Safe Mama, Tamara Rubin, and the more I've like thought about my childhood.
I grew up in a house from the 1890s and it was covered in lead paint.
And when I was nine, I had a drill that plugged in and a wire brush and I took the paint off of a pipe that was probably like this, like, like this big.
And the paint was like this thick of layers and it was all lead paint. I didn't wear a mask.
I suffered like a lot of problems. I got into like a lot of fights in middle school and I had trouble like cognitively and socially in high school.
And until my mid 20s, I feel like my brain didn't actually like heal.
And that was the point where I was eating all organic and I was living well. I was a dad. It was all focused around good things.
And I started gardening at that point.
So I want to get to the deeper layers of everything and to because I'm really worried about.
So there's a metals one and then there's also plastics one. So that would be the layer after that is to find the microplastics with the plastic analyzer.
Well, no, I was always taught being in construction, you know, when the by a tool is when you need it, you know what I mean?
And if you need it, it might be time to go ahead and jump on that, man.
Man, it's crazy. Like everything you say makes so much sense. Think about it. There was a time when lead was actually promoted as a healthy thing.
Like there were commercial like back then. That is good. You know, drink your water out of lead cups and all kinds of stuff.
So just think of just how far, you know, if we didn't evolve. Right.
So you got it. My parents, they drank out of lead crystal red wine every night.
That's it's like 40 or 50 percent lead, like those like those crystal goblets and wines, highly acidic.
Yeah. And not only that, like all ceramic, except for a very thin slice of current new ceramics, all the glazes and then all like the paints that are that have metals in them, all the colorful paints that are on all like the China, the grandma's China.
That's all that that's mercury, cadmium and antimony. And they're proving this now. And it's so bad. It's so bad. And the only way we know is if we test and like that's the truth.
And it's like a bum out because people are like, well, I don't know if I have that. It was like, well, I don't know if you do either.
And there's no way I can assure you that you don't. We live in such a fast paced world that's filled with people that I mean, I went to Missouri. I lived there for a little while.
I saw the way they burn the trash. Holy cow. Mama holding the baby. Got a bin full of trash and she's throwing plastic on the baby.
Maybe a tiger in there.
Yeah, but it's like the plastic from their like hot dogs that they are feeding their kids are thrown into a burn barrel while holding a baby. It's like the dioxin that we're talking about that are being released.
Other places I'm sure are doing it, but I only have a Kentucky from experience. Saw it done in Missouri. Totally insane. I saw someone do it camping in California.
It just freaks me out.
So, so I, I feel consistently like I have to do a lot of the work. I have to buy a lot of these things and then pave the way and open up space for everyone to participate.
Someone's doing it. And as a teacher, I'm a facilitator and I want to have peers and people that are students that can rise up to be teachers themselves. That is the correct path.
The siloing of information, the pyramidic structures that people are creating where they're like the ego at top and they're like, I am the expat. Only I hope like that's, that's so 80s.
We realized that like community leverage and transparency way stronger. We figure out like that guy's full of it. Like, you know, it's a completely different thing.
And I, I, I was a public school teacher in an age where there was no rules about these, so they could film you while you taught.
Oh God.
Oh God.
That's right.
A lot of them, man. That's, um, yeah, well I got a question. I know we got a lot of questions. I know we're going to be pushing up on time. I'm gonna ask mine first.
And I'll add some stuff with it. But so, all right, if we, if compost, right, is something that is a useful tool, takes time to get right and balanced.
What is the future of compost? Knowing what you know and what kind of direction you can go? Can we even see? I'm not even gonna say anything. Just go.
Okay. So compost is the ultimate medium for delivering your nutrients, your minerals, because it's bound in an organic context.
So, and you might be like, oh no, I need mine chelated. Then you're doing a foliar spray and that's a totally different thing. We're talking about compost.
So compost is a medium that makes things palatable to our plants. The old way of doing things of adding salts where they disassociate, these are purified elements.
And they always want to go back to like a natural state of things, which means that they're hungry, which means that they tear apart organic matter to fit themselves in.
So this is what happens with purified nitrogen, ripping apart the organic matter in your soil. It's just trying to fit into the CXOXNXHX of all organic matter chemistry.
It's always comfortable in that, in those, that's organic matter. So if we bond it with organic matter before it goes in, it stays.
So these things are, or these, the biology, the minerals, the nutrients, and the pH associated with it, and the energy associated with it stays longer.
Because we're actually trying to push things different ways, energetically, pH wise, and compost has the staying power to it because it's grounded in that organic matter.
So I think compost is going to get more sophisticated. I call, I did a video I called spike compost.
We're going to have compost where we're kind of putting it through the motions a little, probably a little bit more aggressively.
You see that with Jethouse Gardens work, right? Where he's like, oh, we're going to put you in a bin and we're going to aerate you from below.
You just hold still, we're going to rock you. And the compost is like, okay, you know what I mean? Like that's, that's intense.
But then he's hitting with Bokashi and worms afterwards. Boom. And then he's hitting with a cover crop and then he's pushing it out.
And it's like, that is more aggressive, but he's getting a very specific result.
And I'm, I see, I foresee that we're going to have a lot of these more aggressive, like I was talking about earlier where you do like the 18 day hot compost and then you hit that with EM, soak it, cover it with a tarpon.
Or something. And then a week later, you've got something that's a great carrier.
You can, you can move it any direction you can. And the other thing to think about is like Dr. Crystal.
I can't even remember her name. The, the, the, the Australian woman that everyone loves.
She talks about fungi. It's like this, like this, like thing.
I mean, and then Elaine Ingham does too. The problem is, is it's like, she's talking about basidiomycota saprophytic fungi, not mycorrhizal fungi with morphologically looks exactly like the things that she tells you to watch out for.
And, and so it's like incredibly important to understand context. It's like mycorrhizal fungi looks nothing like that. And it's not in compost at all, at all. There's none of it.
And, and, and so, so we really have to, to understand like, like these, these things contextually are completely different.
Saprophytes, endophytes, mycorrhizal fungi, these categories, and then yeasts. These categories are independent and completely morphologically like independent.
And so those kinds of like distinctions just were never made. Like, like when I was taught from those teachers and it was, and it was wild to me.
It's because it's like, do I really want like tons of saprophytes? And like, what I've come to realize is like, Karey natural farming relies upon saprophytes so heavily.
And I'm like, what's happening? Oh, I know what's happening. The saprophytes are going right inside the roots and rhizophagy.
And those saprophytes are basically creating a field around it where it crowds out all the other fungi.
So the roots are just like met with more like microbes that it digests and rhizophagy.
So more questions now. I lied. I got one more guy. Sorry.
All right. So Matt, we don't have mycorrhizal fungi in our compost, but like Jethouse, he runs a cover crop.
So does he inoculate it though?
Correct. Well, no, no, I don't know. I'm just, I'm going by what you just said. So let me get to this.
Does that now, okay. So now the cover crop must be inoculated with the mycorrhizal fungi or you're not going to have it, correct?
Or will it just come in from the air and populate?
Well, well, yes, to a degree. The thing is, also the other thing that we know that I've come to notice is that people often say things like, oh no, this is there. It's there. Oh, it's there.
And just because something there doesn't mean it's at an efficacious rate, right. Or a level.
And so things, a lot of things are there, you know, but are they at the right form and level?
Given that, can you rephrase the question?
All right. So, yeah, just to keep it going. So now let's say we did inoculate and now we did a cover crop on our compost. We have mycorrhizal fungi.
Do you know through your studies how much distance from that root to, you know, into the compost? Am I going to get that mycorrhizal fungi? And if I were to...
Microns?
Yeah. Oh, is it? Oh, it's tiny. Okay. Just super tiny. All right.
Well, the thing is, it's like some of them will do it on the outside of the root. This is why they do grasses where the roots are just permeating the medium. Right. Grassroots are like that. They make like that turf sod. And that's why they do winter kill. And then they turn the whole soil medium into inoculant.
And that it's grass, it's Bahia grass.
So then what I did on my leaf mold pile, this is like four or five years old, last year just started growing local grasses. I just said, F it, didn't turn it, let's just grow it. Over winter, everything's brown. I'm thinking my best option or what makes most sense is going to turn that or flip it upside down, get that living grasses that are all on top, just put them on the bottom and work it like that.
Yeah. And you could even, you could even like put rock dust or something that would accelerate the microbial action on it and then coat it because then it'll just like, wow. And biochar dust. I would do biochar dust on that. That'll like speed that digestion up. And even if you add something nitrogenous to it as well, like that'll like digest it and make it more digestible.
A little comfrey, add some comfrey leaf in there or something. Nice. Good stuff. See, we went this far. No, I'm not going to ask any more questions. We got to do this again because we didn't even talk, you know, birds or anything like that, chickens.
I got a, I got a question for both of you. The, the, I guess, deeper think tank individuals, people as a group are noticing that potash because Russia's, you know, to the, on the world stage is going to eventually fall off.
They've given out so many of their, their younger individuals that they're like, their people aren't going to actually be on this earth as, you know, I guess decades go on. So that potash is probably going to be lost for who knows, right?
And so their, their thinking is that individuals that understand how to farm in shitty land, there's going to be a huge way for those individuals to monetize things because the old way of doing things isn't going to be economically feasible just from the shipping routes.
There was this thing called globalization that basically our country protected the waters of the world and our country doesn't want to do that anymore. So to be able to get potash from other countries and stuff, that's going to slow down as well. So what are your views on that?
I think because as things start to shift, the regenerative side is going to actually start to make money for the suits. The ones that actually used to spend all the money on the bullshit chemicals that might on a grand scale, start to look at stuff like this.
So when we think about potassium and the history of the word alkaline, alkali refers to the salts made when you take wood ashes and combine them with water and then boil them down.
Those were alkali salts and pot and they were called potash and then they became potassium. So wood and all our wood fires that have been like right outlined outlawed, right? Those actually would have provided all the potassium needs that we have for our farmlands.
I was just saying on a world stage, that's not possible. Everything's big ag. So moving forward, do you think that it's possible that those that size companies would actually start to look at individuals such as yourself, a few other of the bigger names that we've mentioned in the community, and start to maybe have a voice for the regenerative community on this is how you grow things, this is how you grow the world.
This is how you grow things, rebuild soil systems, because the old way, the old guard of America protecting the waterways, that's gone. So you can't ship things safely if you're a small country anymore.
The other aspect to this is that there's like 42,000 pounds of potassium per acre in the top six inches on average. And it's really the forms in which we have these things and it's the biology that unlocks them. Some of the things, you know what I mean? Like, you don't have every element that is necessary in sufficient amounts, but potassium and often phosphorus, we certainly do.
And it's because we don't have like, the reason that phosphorus has been an issue in so many places is because they don't have mycorrhizal fungi involved, because they increase your root surface area by 10,000 times. And they are excellent at solubilizing phosphorus from out of minerals.
And so they at least 10,000 times increase the amount of phosphorus, because they are solubilized as a phosphorus, and then they increase the root size by 10,000 times.
So we really do have the solutions for these things. But I mean, I honestly think that big ag, big chem, all these juggernauts aren't, they're not invested in what's best. They're invested in what makes money.
And so we really need to kind of slap the mica out of their hands and do things that empower our individual communities and individual farms and parks.
And so I mean, I don't honestly think about very, because I know that they're just cratering everything they do and everything they touch. And it may be that they're like, maybe that they're like, cursed by the way they do things.
And maybe that's their fate, you know what I mean? To see us succeed and then change, you know, and like, that's how most people learn. You learn by example, and so someone needs to rock it.
And so I think that's what's so critical about the work of people like Jethouse Gardens in the cannabis community, but Jon Kemp in the regenerative ag community, because they're proving these things out, not at like the one to one scale, but they're proving this out on like 10,000 different sites all across America, and even in Africa.
And they're proving these things out across plant types. And so he's got the like the cotton industry, which has always been notorious for chromium and other terrible things in the soil.
He's getting them off the pesticides and he's transitioning them through with biology to cycle out and lessen their nitrogen, their synthetic nitrogen.
So a lot of this is healing the soil. A lot of this is reaching farmers and helping them get out of the financial trap that big ag and the USDA forced them into.
And yeah, it's a mess. I mean, the thing. All right. So like, this is the best way to think about it. What they did to the cannabis industry in California is what they did a long time ago to farming.
And then it's but it trickled up even further until it was like basically all in the hands of a few companies and the government, which was run by those few companies.
You know, and so we really need to provide ways for the farmer to get out of that. And so I kind of like screw big ag. Those guys suck.
And so I like want to slap the mic out of their hand, just like I mean, we see and we see this across the board right now with like degenerative system, degenerative leadership.
And I really believe it comes down to real conversations, real community. That's why these podcasts work, because what we're doing is creating sense and meaning making and drawing our communities together while giving our communities the tools to form communities.
And yeah, yeah. And so I think that if we continue and follow that path, the way you guys are doing it, the way like the cannabis movement is doing it, I think that we will find a way out of this madness that we will be able to make sense of our senseless systems and bring them online.
But they're going to be not grafted in from them. It's going to be from us. It's going to be from our communities. I just think that they're so warped.
I mean, when was the last time you were in contact with someone who's like said the word my investors and didn't like have like a.
You know, you know, and there's people who are good investors, there's people with good companies and don't get me wrong, not saying that, but you know, those people who are like, well, how's your business?
And like it's like that we can't have that anymore. We need to have real people connections, transparency, real community.
That's what's going to heal all of us and allow us to all be like that guy's full of it.
We need that. We need that to protect ourselves.
Yes. Yeah, I hate the thing. The thing I hate about Big Ag, man, is like when there is a movement. Right. So it goes, OK, organics better. Right.
Quote unquote organics better. So there's that movement. Well, now they all got the money to jump on board and get your organic this.
So now when we go microbes, you know, then it's going to be, oh, we got the microbes now, you know, and they make it all catchy.
And that's why it's so hard to fight it, man. But what you just said, it's got to come from us. We got to come from us.
But the just tough because they have so much control over everything. They're going to they're going to hit the masses so well because they can reach to, you know what I mean?
But it's almost like we don't want the masses right now. You don't want to reach the masses because they're not going to understand.
It's going to they're going to be like, what? And then they're going to and that's going to hurt because you're going to feel disregarded. Right.
And so I think we don't want to reach the masses like necessarily or or maybe if we reach the masses, it's a byproduct of doing things the right way and growing the right way.
Like that's a symptom of doing the right thing rather than a goal.
That makes sense.
Hundred percent.
And so and I honestly, I I've studied this for years. My mom, my mom was a local politician.
My brother's a poli sci, social scientist professor, and my other brother is like a think tank dude. And I'm like, whoa.
And so like like they're all over there and like I've watched them for years and been like.
And it's wild, it's wild. And only when I was in like the thing with me is that I try not to come to conclusions when I don't understand things.
Because I watched I was I was surrounded by people like you.
I appreciate that.
I grew up I grew up surrounded by people so certain then so condescending.
And I was the third born. So even today, my opinion's like.
What the weight of my words third born.
So so I've just had to learn how to like like I've thought about things very differently.
And and I really feel strongly that when I was able to understand permaculture, start looking for the principles, start going up and down, being able to test things and having the way things connect.
And then further with regenerative soil, it opened up.
Especially because it was all community bound.
And community rooted. And I'm always I'm always talking about my discoveries.
I'm always talking about these things and people reach out to me and they complicate my understanding.
And it's wonderful. Opens up new doors.
And and yeah, I've I really believe that it has to come from a natural space.
It has to come from a community space.
All these people have been trying to do things top down and think that they're better than everyone.
And like it's a madness.
And like it's something I'm so keenly afraid of.
So keenly afraid of like as a as a mental like poison that could infect me.
And I'm afraid of it.
And I'm afraid of it.
And and I just know that it's in that place of being open and communicating and giving people the environment to do the right thing and the autonomy to do it and the respect and honor.
Then they do it.
And incredible things can happen.
Humans are so incredible.
But like we live in a society that's designed to poke us, to provoke us, to infight and to divide.
And that's what when we took to circle back to the beginning of our conversation, how things are siloed and encamped.
And there's this conflict and judgment and an absolutism.
That's hardly science at all.
And so and I believe the way to break that is community.
It's conversation.
It's that openness and that place of either facilitation or learning or growth.
Those are all part of an actual cycle of progression and growth.
And so so so I really believe that in the transparency and you guys are doing it.
You guys are are doing it.
And.
Yeah.
We're doing it.
You are.
You are doing it.
You are holding a torch.
And I love it.
I'm with you, especially for the original thinkers.
I think that's the biggest issue with like we'd said at the beginning of the show.
OK, well, there's information out there now.
Everybody's regurgitating the same stuff and they're trying to find their little niche of followers.
There's like, hey, I I invented K and F.
I invented cannabis.
Come listen to me.
It's not that extreme.
I'm obviously being facetious, but it's pretty close with some of them.
You know, it's like, wow.
Like, how did you become this expert?
To me, if you're really taking a class and there's a decent size entry fee, if you will, that needs to be somebody that's probably been a decade or more into this and has understood things on a variety of levels of wins and losses.
Not just somebody that's taken a few classes.
Now they get to be the expert somehow.
And I caution people to really look out for that because it's starting to run rampant among individuals that might not be in the community, but are just on the fringes of that community where they're spending a lot of money for the same regurgitated stuff.
And it's if you watch this show each and every week, you would feel like I don't know about ripped off.
There's probably good things about certain class, but you would feel like your money didn't go as far as you thought it was going to with some of that information.
You hear the same stuff.
So we didn't probably want to get into some Q&A real quick.
We can rapid fire that for you, Mr. Powers.
I'm sure you're a busy, busy man like the rest of us.
But there are a few questions for you.
Let's go.
All right.
70.
Let me put it up there.
Rusty Nails.
$75 is very inexpensive for a college textbook, but it is pricey for a home grower to add to the library.
Why should I, as a home grower, invest in the regenerative soil book?
You can get it as an e-book if you want.
You don't have to spend on a physical book.
It's inexpensive as an e-book.
And when it's a PDF, you can keynote search.
And so for me, when we began the age of PDFs and I could keynote search documents, it changed research fundamentally for me.
I was the Dewey Decimal Kid.
We would research the library.
We'd go to the library.
We'd get out of the directory.
So the thing with this book is there's never been a book with the natural cycles for all plant and essential nutrients.
It doesn't exist.
This is the only one.
There's no other books that are published with the Redox charts for those nutrients.
Let me show you what that looks like.
And then I color-coded them so we'd understand where it was green is good and red is bad.
And so.
And I just wanted to.
OK.
I want to promote you for like I understand it in certain points in your life, like sometimes seventy five dollars is a lot of money.
But for education and that kind of stuff.
I mean, I've personally spent a lot more on that, even some digital classes and stuff.
So to me, if you don't have that, then you know you're working and you find a little extra ways to make some money and buying the book.
Like you just said, it's in a PDF.
That's next level because now you can go anywhere with it without carrying a big book.
So I just wanted to put that aspect out there, man.
Seventy five dollars to me is seems fairly priced for for what you're putting out there.
I mean, I haven't read the book, so I don't want to say one way or the other.
But I would imagine, sir, I've watched a lot of your videos, especially all the ones with Dr.
Laningham. I watched the one with Paul Stamets before this to get ready for this interview.
And I think you're on a whole nother level.
That's probably what you know, if we bring you back, we should talk about that interview because the fact that you even got that interview.
But I mean, that's mind blowing, man.
That guy is next level.
He came to the University of Denver and was gave like a two hour speech.
And I felt like it was a who's who of the medicinal type.
Whoever believed in that, they showed up at D.U. that day.
So he was after the Rogan interview.
Yeah, he's we always say next level.
Like he's he's third level with that because his stuff and your interview, even how it starts off, it's mind blowing.
So if you guys haven't seen that style of Paul Stamets with Matt Powers, just kind of I don't know, just kind of edging them on with some of the quirkier stuff.
Fantastic interview.
Yeah, that was fun. That was a lot of fun.
Well, this book has the the connection between the chemistry and the biology.
There's no other book that actually bridges that and then gives you the actions in relation to that.
So you can actually have a holistic understanding of your soil down to the microbe and the ions.
So these are like these are like diatrophs.
Those are nitrogen fixers, free living, symbiotic, endophytic, phosphorus, solubilizers.
This goes to the actual names.
So when you're when you're actually ordering things, you can know and tailor like the biofertilizers like the AMF.
They all have proclivities like they are very specific.
And so you can map your soil out and create a holistic management plan that is not just annual, but is annual across time.
And so it builds every year and you can have things roll out over a five or 10 year process.
There's I mean, there's a reason why people bought a seventy five dollar book and then doubled their yields.
Meanwhile, their university, which has access to all sorts of books, yet none of the books did that.
So I was really fortunate in creating that book because I got to work directly with scientists all over the world.
And I got to put things together that never were put together.
Yeah, I would I would say, you know, if you haven't read it, go to a friend's house who has it.
There's lots of people who have it now. I know I sell several a day.
It's wild. So I'll sell some more today because I'm getting one as soon as we get.
I hope you do well today. Thank you. Thank you.
I'm buying it tonight.
I appreciate it so much. It's been a miracle for me and my family.
I've got two boys, my wife, the seven time cancer survivor.
Like it being able to support my family with writing books and doing courses has been the greatest blessing in my life.
I love teaching. I love learning.
Like I am all about learning and I'm endlessly curious.
But it has to be tied to something that's really important and legacy based because I am a teacher and I can't.
That's how I get my energy.
I actually by serving and seeing you get empowered and you have epiphanies and breakthroughs through fluency,
not me telling you, but me creating the ability for you to use the tools to see for yourself.
There's nothing like that. And if you're a true teacher, there is nothing like that.
So so that's what I get chills just saying it.
So so I got to listen about that.
I'm so glad that's what I care about. I want people to have real change.
I want people to. And that's the thing is like I teach farmers.
I teach actual business owners who are putting their families on the line and their kids colleges on the line with this information.
So it had to be correct before I let out and published it.
And so, I mean, I would say I would say get it because there's nothing else like it.
I can't imagine not having that information.
I would I wouldn't understand the world.
I wouldn't I wouldn't be, you know.
I wouldn't be taking the steps I am with my health if I didn't have that understanding.
Like there are things I'm doing for my health that are making profound effects that doctors and medicine didn't affect.
But I've been able to affect and basically stop terrible things from happening because that book touches upon something that's universal.
The energetic exchanges of life.
And once you understand the food or soil and you start inferring around your body, it doesn't go into the side that side of it.
But my book, Mind, Body, Soil, which will come out after the trilogy, the regenerative soil trilogy is over.
We'll go into that because we're all energetic beings and all the nutrients are actually energetic keys.
So it's really about the right timing, the right amounts, right combinations of the right kinds of energy that allow us to process, heal and grow.
Yeah, I don't see anything wrong with an individual taking time and effort and being paid for their time and effort.
Exactly.
I believe we talked on a few of this or mentioned it, you know, not nothing too deep.
Did you want to go deeper with this kind of stuff or do you feel like nitrogen, bacteria and cannabis trichomes?
So he talks about the bacteria, but he doesn't pin down with DNA.
So that's the thing is that mycologists, they are not primarily using the DNA sequencing.
They're using morphology.
And because they're like, this is what I was trained on.
This is what everything's based on.
But what we can do is we can lead from reverse.
So if we turn to page 146 in the book, go to endophytic diazotrophs.
Those diazotrophic microbes, diazotrophic microbes are bacteria that fix nitrogen.
And so these are endophytic.
So Saccharomyces cervicaea, which is bread and beer yeast, right?
Primary ingredient in many of the things we work with.
Micrococcus uninensis, Bacillus maggaterium, Pseudomonas florensis, Volcanobacteria diazotrophicus.
These are all things that are in blends.
Like the recharge has a bunch of these things.
Right?
So these are things that you're like, oh, well, if I spike my compost tea or if I spike my EM with this when I'm applying it, yeah, you're going to hit these notes.
Bulkholderia.
So you could be Azarchus.
Dark-septic endophytes.
I want to be able to figure out how to.
I mean, I have a way to do it in here, but then you have to find, you have to find samples.
It's very difficult to find samples.
You can't buy them right now.
And then there's endophytic archaea, which we can't really identify unless you're genetically testing.
And no one's selling those cultures.
But all the things above it that I mentioned, that those you can absolutely buy and then add into a compost tea that has the rest of those.
Because most everything is in.
So the way to go about things for most things is to lean as far as you can through the plant types that are feeding into your compost.
There's certain plant types that will have certain endophytes already in them and they will survive through the compost like rhizobia.
Rhizobia survives through compost.
It survives through digestion.
So rhizobia would be in the legumes consumed by the animals that create the manure that are in your compost.
And the rhizobia survives through the composting process.
So there's microbes that are in this, this, this loop that we know and can verify.
And those were the ones I would start with and lean into.
And then I would gradually branch out and use more broad spectrum like compost tea and stuff like that.
So, so, so that's the thing is it's like.
There's a lot of people that would would slam the door.
It feels like on on like the end part of that where I like kind of try to like paint it as open, you know, as possible because the amount of uncertainty.
It's I mean, we know they fix nitrogen because we've proven like with like, like different stains, the nitrogen release and the different things.
But bearing down on the individual bacteria, it's one thing with a cilia or a nematode and you get that micropipette and you can suck it up.
Bacteria individually you can't grab, you know what I mean?
So, so there are limits to what we can do currently.
And, and, and that's why we need the microscope.
Because DNA sequencing is very imprecise.
And then you have the whole issue of fungi and DNA.
Fungi resists.
So you spend two days breaking something down to see what's inside bacteria.
By the way, it takes like a lot to break DNA down.
So that's why 40% of like the profile of soil is DNA.
Like, at least or more.
What are you using enzymes to break it down or what are you using to break it down?
This is part of the thing is they don't tell you.
Okay.
So you've got this like C1, C2, C3 and you're like, well, I really don't want to get this on my skin.
Right?
Yeah. So there's these industries, the way they work gives me the creeps.
A lot of the time, like the way that Wiley's has like in all of like this book, this book would be online and free, except Wiley's just decide to make it private.
They've done, they're trying to like hide the DNA connections.
And basically I think hold back all education while they capitalize on the genetic realities and withhold that information from us.
So that's why there's a group of us that are all involved and teaching each other and helping each other understand it and spread this knowledge.
It's.
There's a completely different paradigm for how these things actually work.
What about the black fungi VOD?
I don't know what that is.
Sorry, Diego.
Me either, Diego.
Why do I get yellow mushrooms and cocoa?
I think those there's a specific.
I mean, there's a specific paradigm for how these things actually work.
I mean, there's a bunch of different yellow mushrooms.
I mean, there's a specific kind of mushroom when things get too wet that can show up, especially in indoor grows.
But yeah, cocoa coir.
A lot of that stuff's treated really with alkaline substances, and so it's caustically treated.
And so you're bringing in a lot of things into your system.
So that can be that can be harsh.
Oh, my gosh.
I got one in our in our Meyer lemon.
I mean, it's a colony that lives there, and I put the tree out in the summer, bring it back in.
The answer is still in there.
Yeah.
EM, EM, true EM can really help.
Like the thing is, EM one, not EM one pro.
I tested and it didn't have rhodocinnamus palustris.
I mean, had one count in like twelve thousand.
So no, it didn't have it.
So that's why I do things myself and I test things myself, because I really want to make sure that the things I think that are happening.
Are much more likely to be happening because the actual microbes that do that are verifiably there.
So.
So.
You actually can displace the.
The it's a ZYG word.
I can't remember the term, but you're basically displacing key enzymatic components when you're using EM on.
And colonies that can really help displace them.
There is also a I mean.
You could be like making cordyceps and stuff to cordyceps militaris liquid culture is actually pretty easy to come by and getting to fruit out is the trick.
Right.
So.
So, yeah, I.
You could also inoculate them.
That's what, you know, years ago, Paul Stamets was doing.
Right.
Do you.
That's probably more of a Marco question, I guess, or I guess I could answer that, too.
I mean, mutants are usually a novelty.
That's that's not usually something that's going to be stable.
Some people have fun with it just to play around and see.
I think that's where the duck foot and stuff potentially came from.
There's a lot of lore on a bunch of different things.
But, yeah, the kind of weirder stuff is fun to play around with.
Yeah, that's fine.
But, you know, is this something you want to do or grow all the time for production?
I don't know.
So the micro meter, I have one.
I haven't tested it out.
I need to get into that.
I've just been working on the microscope side and I wanted this to be basically when I opened it up, it was like a can of worms.
I was like, well, how can you prove this?
How can you prove that?
And it just was like endlessly like that.
And so I've had to create a lot.
The thing is, it's like you can't tell pathogenic E. coli from the other E. coli, which are commensal or endophytic.
So.
You have the DNA test to actually know pathogenic and then and then every group, whether it's spirula or I mean, it doesn't matter.
Who we're talking about.
There are beneficials in that group of morphol and there are pathogens.
So so morphologically, it's you can have like, oh, too much of this and that could be could be a tell of things.
But unless you have the context, you actually can't make it unless you have DNA, that kind of context or the context of like the macro situation.
It's very hard to know.
Like what what is what is right?
What is the course of action?
So it's incredibly important to ground these things in.
Inbound with within bound understanding, so like you can go to genus very easily, but going down to the individual species.
And then bacterial wise, you can do like the shape, but there's bacteria that change shape.
There's there's there's conditions that actually change the shape of bacteria.
And so they can look like completely different things.
It's there's like there's my book is going to be I'm going to have protocols and I have protocols and guides.
But a lot of it's going to be breaking a lot of the prior learning that people have gotten in the microscopy world because those people came to me while I was doing this book and starting this journey.
And we're like, listen, I have a laboratory.
A farmer came and gave me a sample and then gave an opposite soil food web laboratory, the same sample.
And we gave them opposite recommendations.
And then the farmer took it public and they're like, so my and then they were like, oh, fine, we'll go on zoom together with the same sample.
And then they did it. Dun, dun, dun, dun, dun, same motion, dancing together in unison.
And it was different again.
So that those protocols weren't ever done in a transparent community way, were they?
So otherwise, everyone in the room would have been like, hey, this doesn't work.
So the microbiome meter was invented by Dr.
Judith Fitzpatrick. I'm familiar with her.
I spent a good amount of time talking with her over the years, like speaking at expos and stuff.
And what I will say about that is, is that it's pretty easy to if you I'm not going to say how, but it's pretty easy to hack the microbiome meter.
I have personally done it when she took a soil test sample of mine.
She said it was the highest reading she's ever seen.
And there's a reason for that.
Yeah. So I think all of the intentions are good behind it.
But if you're trying to say that this is like a be all end all type thing, the.
It's not there. I.
If I can fool us so many tests, if you do one test creates this myopic view of the world and it's self reinforcing.
And that's why you have these businesses who are like, no, you just you don't need a microscope.
Get this. This is the thing.
And I think that there's like a definite use for it.
Like, but I've I mean, I've heard I haven't heard what you said.
I've heard that when people run it against like a soil food web methods, that they're divergent.
So and then and then I've got Solvita here.
So I've got the like the CO2 exhalation of microbe calculation, right?
Method of testing.
And the thing is, with all of them, is they're based upon a fallacy about the way soil behaves and the way that.
The way that fungi behaves, so the way that fungi behaves like you were asking before, it's like, how far does it go?
It's like, well.
If it's in the soil profile, those spores are released there.
Right there, they don't explode and then go like on the wind and they're gone.
They're right there.
So in other words, the they are released and then they find sources and then they expand and feed until they reach a limit.
And then they put out, you know, consistently, right?
And so it's actually all from certain points of concentration.
That are always like where there is fungi, it will be at higher levels than where there is not funding.
Well, that seems obvious.
That means fundamentally, when we're testing, we're either hitting a fungal zone.
Or we're not.
And so it's like we have the it basically like everything starts off with spores.
So it starts off as pinpoints and then from those pinpoints, it grows and grows and grows, which means that fundamentally fungi is always like distributed from those original spores, which means that it's pockets of association and expression and spread.
And infection.
And because of that, we are always going to get readings that are variable, which means that we need to do things differently.
So the way that we were doing numbers as a finite behavioral like like associated pattern was wrong.
This is what this I'm giving away stuff from from my next book.
But but.
And then the whole thing with like fungal to bacterial ratio, any fungi, any bacteria, if you don't DNA test, how do you know they're not pathogens?
And they could be saprophytes.
How great is a saprophyte when you need a mycorrhizal association?
So these contexts breaking these associations, I mean.
We all know that numeric ways of communicating are limited.
Like when you do a number, they're like, oh, it's 6000.
It's like, yeah, but what's the context?
You know what I mean?
It's like same thing with like like your readouts with your numbers.
It's like you can have high this or that, but it could be like off in other ways.
So that's a lot of what I'm giving away.
And it's in it's I feel like it's really critical to provide that level of rigor and reality so that people can recontextualize.
And as a community, we can then move.
This is a moment like when they talk about in history with mathematics where they're like, oh, that was wrong.
And that whole math for like 200 years was fake.
Do you remember this?
They did this like several times with geometry.
And so it's the same thing with soil science.
DNA just like sunk the battleship of morphological science.
But that doesn't mean that morphology doesn't have meaning.
And it doesn't mean that morphology doesn't have meaning.
And it doesn't mean that morphology doesn't have meaning.
The context of all of this is the microscopic zone.
So without the microscope, you're just getting DNA.
It's going to fool you, too, because the DNA is flat.
So who's active versus who?
You know what I mean?
It's the history of the DNA as well.
It's all the dead DNA, too.
So it's not just the morphology.
It's the history of the DNA.
And it's the history of the morphology.
And it's the history of the morphology.
It's the history of the DNA as well.
It's all the dead DNA, too.
And so you've got, yeah, and then we're still at unidentified DNA,
which is DNA fragments.
Like 40% of the profile is DNA fragments.
And so they're unidentified DNA.
And that means they can be sourced.
And so they're potential expressions.
So we are in the process of putting this together right now.
And what's so cool is I don't think we really lost anyone.
I think everyone understood all those incredible things that we just talked about
and understood their implications, which means that as a community,
we all could be furthering all this together and figuring out
and testing these things together.
And that's the premise for everything I've been doing,
for the trilogy, for the database,
because we're in the middle of a gold rush, and most people have no idea.
We are at a complete changeover, old world, new world.
Like we just found the new world.
And it's just a huge, wild, open space that everyone,
and there's no one here.
It's not like we're stealing from anyone indigenous or something, right?
This is a space that literally everyone can participate in.
It's a new frontier of exploration and growth.
And it ties into all of our food.
It honors so many of the indigenous traditions,
whether you're Celtic or Aboriginal.
Like it touches upon everyone's background and honors them,
because I mean, all those more reduced,
more energy-rich medicinal compounds are coming from cannabis.
They're coming from the herbal community.
They're coming from all of our ancestors' medicinal practices.
And I think we're only going to see that continue.
We're only going to see it expand.
We're going to find about new plants.
I mean, haven't we?
In the past 20 years, how many new plants have you heard about
that you're like, oh, that's a medicinal?
Oh, okay.
And like mushrooms.
And you know, it's incredible.
And I think it's going to continue to roll forward
as we push back against the big chem, the big ag,
the top-down control of our world and our understanding
that continues to desperately try to strangle us
and keep us from connecting.
Going deep today, boy.
All right.
Woo!
All right.
So, okay, so you have three by three beds running five cycles now.
Should I go horizon layers and make new soil?
Should my old soil go in A or O layers?
Yeah, so this is like a Chris Trump thing, right?
This is what you guys do?
Yeah, so I don't teach that.
That's not my methodology, so I don't have an opinion.
I'll take that one.
Horizontal soil, A, E, and O.
So, you're going to go on top of your organic.
I would put the old soil in my A, obviously,
because your O is your mulch, your chop and drop,
and that's the part that's going to get cycled down.
You've got to keep adding to your O.
So just put that in your A, your base, and keep it rocking.
I'm in a no-till party.
There you go.
Never till it.
That's what Chris Trump does.
So Dr. James White, James Francis White,
is the person I was talking about throughout the presentation today.
He's a very good friend and mentor, and he has, I mean,
he's offered me any of his pictures to use in my books.
He is the person that I was, when I was looking at this,
he was the person that was helping me and being the person that was being like,
oh, did you do this, and did you do that?
And so he's one of my greatest mentors,
and he's a peer reviewer for this book, as well as David Montgomery,
Professor David Montgomery, author of Dirt, Erosion of Civilizations,
along with many, many books around living soil.
That is a very, very good way to think about it and nourish their bait,
but it's the reverse if it's simplified sugars and nitrates, right?
So it's bait if it's good stuff, and then the plant is benefiting,
but it's the reverse.
They become the bait.
The whole plant does if it's the reverse.
Excellent.
What's my grow riser?
I was wondering if it was mycorrhizal fungi.
Mycorrhizal fungi is great.
We've been testing it the whole time, too.
Yeah.
I'm hoping that that's what that was.
I think what he's saying is, remember, oh, sorry, Brian.
I think, remember, we were saying there's no root connection,
so if you're buying micros or whatever in a jar,
you don't necessarily have a good product.
Maybe he's saying that.
Is he saying is that useless now,
that micros product that he may have when it's on a shelf?
No.
I think the thing is to examine under the microscope,
and then if it's all spores,
that's an amendment that goes into you building your soil
because you're like, this is going to just hang out until the moment.
You know what I mean?
It's very different from something with propagules
where it's more immediate,
and then that's what I would use on my roots.
I would examine that under the microscope,
and then you can test it out.
Recharge is really high in molasses and bacteria,
and I think that has a lot to do with the effect that people see.
Give it a little sugar boost.
Plants love sugar because, remember, they're reabsorbing the sugars,
so this is why they're primed to absorb those sugars.
Recharge does a lot of things.
I need to...
I think...
I'm trying to remember if I DNA tested it.
I need to.
But yeah, that's something that I've tested,
but as far as recharge, as far as efficacy,
I'd have to figure out how to isolate to those components
and analyze them because the molasses is going to have an effect on its own.
Name two nitrifying bacteria.
Ha ha ha ha!
So nitrogen fixing.
So cerveza yeast, micrococcus uninensis,
azoarcus, rhodocytomene palustris,
in order to survive in plants has to do it too.
That's why it feeds four different ways.
E. coli.
I mean, I could pull up the book and read from the charts,
but those are just ones off the top of my head.
The thing is, if it's living inside a plant, it has to fix nitrogen.
So cool.
And I've memorized those because I've used those microbes
and I've been teaching this a long time,
but that's why it's a reference
because you don't have to remember the 40, 50 different microbes
associated with nitrogen fixing.
You don't have to remember all the archaea.
You know what I mean?
Because you're not even going to be able to identify archaea
versus bacteria under the microscope.
You don't want to put pressure on yourself in ways that are unrealistic.
And then nitrogen fixing bacteria could also be rhizobia.
We talked about rhizobia earlier.
What's so cool about rhizobia is once it's really established,
all the different forms of it really can cycle within your system really well.
Speaking of actually nitrogen, because the thing is,
the nitrogen cycle is actually something that people often don't think about
because all those plants are fixing nitrogen from the air in a huge amount.
And in fact, though the typical ones they're talking about
are sugar cane, corn, and sweet potatoes, there's a lot more.
There was a debate years ago about honey locusts fixing nitrogen
and they don't have nodules.
This is the reality, is the nitrogen fixing bacteria
is how these things are getting the nitrogen.
I don't go into the root zone.
Once the root zone is established, I water things in
or inoculate things as I replant.
But I'm always adding in on top and then letting things percolate.
Especially because roots are primarily focused on the top 6 to 8 inches.
If it's below that, it's primarily focused on water.
The roots are much more lateral than they are vertical
in terms of nutrient acquisition.
I've seen a ton of permaculture.
I've got a 200-hour-plus course.
The Advanced Permaculture Student Online,
the first advanced permaculture design certification course ever created.
It's the first standard-based permaculture course.
It's the first course aligned to actual science standards.
It's based upon the first book that was peer-reviewed in permaculture
and the first book since Bill Mollison's 1989 to be fully cited.
You can check that out.
There's tons of special things in there.
On YouTube for free is an audiobook of my channel,
The Permaculture Student, Matt Powers.
It's right there under the playlist,
The Permaculture Student 2, the audiobook that's there.
The course, The Advanced Permaculture Student Online.
There's also over 60 videos from that course on there.
It's over 200 hours.
It's a giant library.
I basically wanted to create freshman,
and now it's kind of freshman, sophomore year
for a major in regenerative science and permaculture.
That's what I did with that course.
There's a lot of amazing things in permaculture,
a lot of applications.
The coolest thing, I think, about permaculture
is that it's so wide open.
What's possible and what you can do in permaculture
is so wide open.
It's like I said about how we're at this new frontier.
We're actually at the end of a degenerative era.
The people that created all the systems that we're living in
were created by the golden generation.
Then the baby boomer people just kind of continued on
and held the reins of what was already created.
Now they're dying right now.
This is the end of an era.
This is the end of an era we're seeing.
When the end of an era happens,
there's this fight where the past tries to control the future
and limit the freedom of the elements
that are creating the future.
That's what we're seeing right now.
This is happening all over the world.
This has been happening for the past 30 years.
The Internet is a huge part of it.
It's part of this whole Gutenberg moment that we're in.
People are able to read the Bible themselves
and not with a preacher when it was in English
so they actually could read it and understand it.
That's what the Internet is.
Not only that, the moment that people saw that you could print a book
and it could be read in common English,
they realized other books could be printed.
Any idea could then be circulated.
That's when you see all these crazy clampdown happen
and all these wars and the Protestant revolution
that has empowered people.
We're seeing that right now.
The Internet empowered so many of us.
It opened up so many cans of worms
trying to put everything back, whack-a-mole,
with all the things we've discovered through community and communication.
I think it's in that moment,
that struggle between the past
at the same time as that Gutenberg moment that we're in.
It's compounding their desire to control us.
It's destroying the health and potential that we have ahead of us.
I have high hopes for the future
in permaculture, regenerative soil science,
and even regenerative medicine.
Asking what's most natural, how do we get back to peak natural state?
These are fundamental questions
of the next era.
I think I've got to go eat lunch soon.
I was just talking to Marco.
Let's do this since it's the last question.
I appreciate it.
Renunciation, enhanced nutrient uptake,
and possibly rhizophagia.
Could microbial foliar sprays influence nitrogen fixing in trichomes?
Absolutely.
As we all know,
people are doing sprays
and then it's getting too wet,
and then people are having butt rot,
and then it becomes too late.
It's because of a variety of reasons.
It's not being allowed to absorb
and dry down quick enough.
I think that we're going to
develop new methods around
ways to apply things on the leaves
in a late season environment.
But if we're doing it earlier in the environment,
then we're not going to be able to
go to town.
I know people are doing it with light amount always.
I'm always adding microbes in a light amount,
foliar and soil soak and watering.
Then I really think
that we're going to get to the point
where you have very specific microbes
and very specific...
Maybe at the end, we're doing
misters almost so that it
gets in the leaves and then soaks in.
We're not going to cause an event
and it seems so superficial.
We're not watering.
That's the thing.
People are foliar spraying and watering.
No, no, no.
I think that we're going to get to a level
of sophistication where you're blushing
on a mist of microbes and nutrients
that last week as they sweeten up
and as they fill and because you selected
for the foods and the microbes
at the beginning of that process with just enough.
You're not watering it as a foliar spray.
You're just putting it on.
Then we're going to see some really sophisticated
and incredible leaps and bounds made.
So much of my work is that.
That means that the work that I'm doing
and everyone is doing and everyone can be doing
is becoming more observant,
becoming more of a scientist,
and becoming more transparent
and communicating about these in the community.
In that process, that's where we learn the most.
When we're open,
we're asking questions or testing
and we're comparing to others.
What did you get? What does this mean?
That's the place of greatest growth and change.
Hey, we really appreciate your time.
For us, especially we mentioned that
as we're getting older, money comes and goes,
man, but your time obviously is finite.
So when you're diving into these complex subjects
and you're able to break it down to the layman,
you're able to do it with obviously your teacher background
where you keep the audience entertained.
I don't think a lot of individuals realize
how hard that is to do.
To not only do it for as long as we just did,
but to do it live, any little mess up or hiccup
or anything like that, brain pauses that you can't,
you lose track of thought.
That all comes into play.
You've obviously been doing this for so long
that you're basically a maestro.
I wanted to just highlight that because you are
one of the individuals, there's obviously a lot,
but with a genuine heart.
I think that goes a long way into why people
are respecting what you're doing.
You went out of their way this past week
to let me know how much you've impacted their growth
and also their lives.
That's amazing. Thank you for sharing that.
I really appreciate that.
Thank you everyone for being here.
Yes, sir. That was wonderful.
I've been mixing natural farming and Jadon for a while.
You now are my target for permaculture
because I love what you're putting down.
I love the, I'm going to get the book
because I want to have that reference to all
those different microbes, man, to take it to that
next level if I want to do that.
You hit on many things. I know you inspired
everybody watching, you inspired me.
I feel like those turps, man, those are our
main expression now that you've kind of, yes.
Once again, thanks for coming, man.
Thanks for going along with us.
We don't usually like to keep people along
because I get hangry. I can't see the chat today
so I don't have nobody to get mad at over there.
Appreciate you, man. Thank you very much.
Thank you so much.
Just wanted everybody that we're going to see
this weekend in Kansas, appreciate everybody
that's watching.
Just a few sales every single day, that starts
to add up, building things for your family
instead of giving it to others.
I think that is also part of this, our
educational process, hopefully for 2023, is
find your own lane, make a little money for
yourself, and eventually find your own path.
We'll see you guys next week.
Thank you, guys.
Bye.
