50 years ago, the situation with cannabis was there was a lot of low potency material
around but don't let anyone tell you that there wasn't good potent material.
There was.
It was just a little bit rarer, harder to find, more expensive.
Also at that time, there were a lot of what we call land races.
So these were cannabis types that had been grown in a particular area for many generations.
They were ecologically adapted to the local environment.
They could deal with the pests.
They were vigorous.
But beyond that, they had very interesting psychological characteristics, psychopharmacological
effects, that we just don't see today.
One of the big problems in cannabis breeding from my standpoint is something we heard
about earlier, that we've had this homogenization.
Part of this is a byproduct of prohibition.
And basically, in a situation where a drug is illegal, it makes sense to have it as potent
as possible so it's the lowest volume of possible, which helps prevent discovery.
By law enforcement, in particular.
So what we've had is selective breeding for the last 40 years for high THC to the exclusion
of everything else.
What we've ended up with in the market is a situation in which we've got almost everything
is high THC and high mercine.
That combination is notorious for producing couch lock.
Now I know that some people like this effect, but most consumers of cannabis aren't really
looking to be immobilized.
They're looking to have either a good experience or a therapeutic experience.
And if you have pain and have to sleep, that's a good combination.
But if you have to work or study, it's not.
Basically, cannabis has a great deal more to offer.
Part of what we'd like to discuss this evening is that and why.
I have some breeding targets and goals I'd like to share with you because I think that
this represents an avenue.
Going forward, we're what I like to call barefoot breeders.
I hope nobody thinks that that's derogatory in any way.
But these would be the people, like many of you, that have been dedicated to the plant,
maybe living off the grid for a long period of time, who've never had the rewards from
your effort.
Maybe on a personal level, but certainly not on a commercial level, where you could make
this a living, a viable living, doing this.
This is, I think, a worthy goal.
It's not about making millions of dollars.
It's about being able to do what you love and at the same time helping a lot of people
out there.
I don't mean to exclude what some people call recreational use of cannabis.
Because if the question is, can we make recreational cannabis a lot better?
You bet.
I think we could help with describing those characteristics.
But I'm going to primarily talk about medical applications.
Beyond the high THC, high mercine, this is spilt over now.
In the last several years, there's been great interest in cannabidiol for all its medical
attributes.
But we've ended up with an analogous situation in that now we have a bunch of CBD chemovirus
that are also rich in mercine, which has created the misconception that cannabidiol is sedating.
It's not.
When you've got CBD without mercine, it's actually innervating.
A lot of people are using CBD preparations instead of caffeine in the morning.
But what we'd like to have people aim for is CBD predominant chemovirus with little
or no THC that could qualify as hemp, although I have difficulties as a scientist in the
current definition in this country of just 0.3 or less percent THC.
So we're also interested in CBD chemovirus with little or no mercine, rather to emphasize
some of the other terpenoids, the aromatic components that modulate the effects of cannabis,
specifically CBD with high limonene.
Limonene is a great antidepressant.
You combine that with the anti-anxiety effects of CBD, and you've got a great agent for a
variety of psychiatric conditions, or just garden variety, bad day, anxious, that kind
of thing.
Similarly, cannabidiol with high linolool.
Linolool, like CBD, is an anti-anxiety agent, famous for coming from lavender.
But beyond that, both of them are anti-convulsant.
And from colleagues who have used these types of combinations in patients with severe epilepsies,
they're seeing success where there wasn't any before with just CBD.
So these are the kinds of potentials that we can see.
Another really interesting target is CBD with high caryophyllene.
Caryophyllene tends to be the predominant terpenoid in a lot of extracts.
So it'll be preserved, say, in a CO2 extract, whereas you'd lose some of the lower molecular
weight monoterpenoids, the limonene, the myrcene, and the pinene.
But CBD with high caryophyllene presents a very broad spectrum of medical activity.
Both are anti-inflammatory.
Together they can be analgesic, pain relieving.
Both have anti-addictive properties and could help people get off of opioids and any other
addictive drug.
And then they would have application in autoimmune conditions.
So it's really limited only by the imagination.
Another thing we'd like to see in breeding is more type 2 preparation.
So a balance of THC and CBD.
Additionally, selective breeding where you're going to have that kind of combination, but
with high selective terpenoids as well.
Especially pinene.
Pinene is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor.
Acetylcholine is the memory molecule in the brain.
And when you have more of it, you don't have the, oh, what was I saying?
The short term memory impairment for which THC is infamous.
That's funny in a social setting.
But again, if you're a chronic pain patient and you have to work, you don't want to be
forgetting.
So for alertness and clarity of a high, pinene is what you want to look for.
Then a big one.
How many of you are familiar on an experiential basis with cannabigerol, CBG?
So I see a few hands go up.
Cannabigerol is the parent of the other cannabinoids.
In the plant, of course, it's in the acid form.
So cannabigerolic acid.
Easy for me to say.
We know almost nothing about what CBGA does.
But we do know quite a bit about CBG.
In my way of thinking, this is the next big thing in cannabis.
And heretofore, it's really been pretty much ignored.
But this is a very unusual molecule.
First of all, it has very pronounced antibiotic activity, including against some really bad
bugs, like methicillin-resistant Staph aureus that has caused some hospital epidemics.
This is why they scrub you before surgery, so that you don't get horrible wound infections.
Beyond that, it has a very interesting profile, in that it's a very powerful anti-anxiety
agent without being sedating.
CBG has taken medicines like the benzodiazepines, Valium et al.
Almost all the drugs that have been used pharmaceutically to treat anxiety have been sedating and often
addictive.
This presents a profile that's really benign in comparison to those drugs.
Additionally, CBG is very active against a number of types of cancer, particularly prostate
cancer, which is number one or number two most common type of cancer in men.
So great potential there.
Additionally, it seems like we have evidence of a variety of chemovars that are very rich
in CBG that will have little or no THC and could qualify as hemp.
Eventually, if we get the laws right, could go across state and international borders.
I'm hoping that Dale will talk more about strategies there.
We think with the right legislation, or even without it, there may be some work around
so that your work in one state could reach other jurisdictions.
I'm also interested in something that almost nobody is working on, and that would be zero
cannabinoid plants.
Now why would you want that?
Well there are two reasons.
One is very interesting for research work where you want to compare the entourage of
the terpenoids against a similar entourage of terpenoids with cannabinoids.
But that's a little bit nerdy.
Another reason is that you can make essential oil of cannabis without the liability, we'll
call it, of THC content.
Some people are going to want to use this as a flavoring, as a perfume or aromatherapy
agent.
They may want to use this to make preparations to help.
If you have a chemovar that has one profile that you like, but you want to add more limonene
to it, you can selectively breed for that.
Ideally we would prefer to have chemovars that have the exact profile we want, but that's
hard.
That takes multiple generations.
And there are some shortcuts where you're still working just with cannabis.
And it may be that pharmaceutical agents are made this way.
Sativex, which is approved in 30 countries, is actually a combination of two chemovars,
one high in THC, one high in CBD.
Next, THCV, tetrahydrocannabinobarans.
So this is THC with a three carbon side chain instead of five.
This is a really interesting agent as well.
It's found in low amounts in cannabis from southern Africa.
It is different to THC, however, in that it's what's called a neutral antagonist.
At low doses, it opposes the activity at the CB1 receptor.
So it actually allays hunger.
It's very good for diabetes, metabolic syndrome.
But beyond that, it is anti-convulsant.
And it is good for neuropathic pain.
Experientially, when there's a good amount of it with THC, it makes for a clearer high.
Rapid onset, a more rapid offset as well.
So we think that this has great potential.
And then you can get into things where you're really seeing a combination of ingredients
that can be therapeutic.
So there are chemoviruses that combine CBD, CBDV, linalool, and caryophyllene, maybe with
a touch of THC.
All of those can have beneficial effects on epilepsy.
So together, there's every reason to expect they'll be synergistic and provide a much
better medicine than, say, CBD alone, which now is an FDA approved drug in this country.
Just a few words about others I haven't mentioned.
Cannabichromine.
So CBC is considered one of the major cannabinoids, but we actually see very little of it in most
types of cannabis.
The reason for that is, unlike THC and CBD, which are products of dominant genes, CBC,
cannabichromine is produced by a recessive gene.
So it's not going to tend to be expressed.
Additionally, it's going to appear in higher concentrations in immature plants.
It's actually possible, if you've got a plant that has a good amount of cannabichromine,
you can make hash out of it at a younger age to produce what my former colleague, David
Potter, called ETP, an enriched trichome product, otherwise known as KEF.
But this is, again, a very versatile agent.
It's shown some antidepressant effects in animals.
It, again, has anti-inflammatory activity.
It's good for a wide range of cancer cell types.
And we really haven't had it available in sufficient amounts to do the kind of work
that would make it a good commercial target.
Then, the acid cannabinoids.
Many of you live in this area, may be familiar with juicing cannabis, but that's like headed
for the right target, but using the wrong technique.
Juicing is generally done with fan leaves, massive amounts.
Often people are juicing 30 big fan leaves a day.
And it's just an impossible thing for most people to sustain, unless they've got acres
of material.
Rather, if we're going for the cannabinoids, their concentration, of course, is greatest
in the flowers.
That should be the source of it.
Why are we interested in THCA, tetrahydrocannabinolic acid, which has been billed as being non-psychoactive
and has been actually in the past called inactive, which is absolutely wrong?
Well, as many of you may be aware, this also has therapeutic activity.
It's quite distinct from THC itself.
In the prior decade, it was established that this works on something called tumor necrosis
factor alpha, which is very important in certain autoimmune conditions, including the inflammatory
bowel conditions, Crohn's and ulcerative colitis, but also in MS, rheumatoid arthritis.
We've seen a lot of people that will juice or get THCA from flowers that have had very
positive influences on their autoimmune conditions.
And then, two years ago in Spain, it was noted that there was another important activity.
Various of the cannabinoids work on something called PPAR gamma.
This is a nuclear receptor.
It affects gene transcription, which sounds really scary, but you can have good effects
or bad effects.
The good effects of PPAR gamma are that it can contribute to weight loss in people who
are obese.
It can positively affect cancer and a variety of other disease conditions.
And as it turns out, THCA is much more potent on the PPAR gamma receptor than any of the
other cannabinoids.
So part of the problem with THCA is it's unstable.
It breaks down into this stuff called THC.
It gets people intoxicated, which again can be a good or bad thing.
But there may be ways to stabilize THCA.
And certainly, when people are making fresh material, it's freely available and again
makes a good target.
It's analogous product is CBDA, cannabidiolic acid.
Again, we know a little bit less here, but what we do know is tantalizing.
Some of you may be aware that cannabidiol also works on serotonin receptors.
This is the basis for its anti-anxiety effect, as well as a number of neuroprotective benefits
in the brain and possibly its anticonvulsant effect.
But cannabidiolic acid is 100 times more potent on the 5-HT serotonin 1A receptor.
Additionally, based on the accounts from the Renaissance herbalists, they used raw
hemp, which would have been relatively rich in CBDA in treating a variety of tumors.
So we really haven't looked at that yet, but this is a product that deserves a lot more
attention.
I wanted to finish this section with cannabinol, CBN.
Now, I'm sort of amused by this.
CBN is an oxidative breakdown product of THC.
If you have cannabis that's been sitting out for a couple of years, THC is going to turn
into CBN.
We've got a lot of companies touting this as having some real advantages.
I think that a lot of this is wishful thinking.
It is true that there's a misconception that CBN is very sedating and therefore good for
sleep.
Rather, it's a case of CBN isn't.
It's basically 25% of the potency of THC.
The reason that old cannabis makes you sleep isn't because of CBN.
It's because you've lost the more alerting monoterpenoids in favor of sedating sesquiterpenoids.
Beyond that, I think that this quest for CBN is a way of trying to use up old dope
that wasn't good for anything else.
Some people may disagree with me, but I guarantee that most of the people that are heavily marketing
CBN have this in mind.
Just a very little bit about the terpenoids beyond what we've said already.
I've mentioned limonene, pinene, and myrcene, and linalool.
Terpenolene is an interesting terpenoid.
We see more in California than other places.
It's beginning to get popular in Washington where I live.
It's a good one in that we've got discrepancies in how it affects different species.
It's sedating in animals, but when people use it, it has more of a buzz.
Again, like pinene, it may have some effect to boost acetylcholine levels.
A lot of people like it.
If they have to use cannabis and do work like cleaning the garage, it might increase
their focus.
I mentioned caryophyllene as well.
Again, very impressive agent.
This is working.
It has the distinction of not just being a terpenoid, but a cannabinoid as well.
It is directly affecting the CB2 receptor.
This is a non-psychoactive receptor, which nonetheless has important pain-reducing and
anti-inflammatory activity as well as being anti-addictive.
Having caryophyllene in a good amount in a cannabis-based preparation is going to cover
a lot of bases therapeutically.
They mentioned caryophyllene oxide.
This may be what is responsible for the scent that sniffer dogs key in on.
But beyond that, it seems to be an extremely strong antifungal, even working on nail fungus.
There's one of the prescription drugs that's advertised on TV.
You can spend $5,000 over six months and have a 50% chance of curing your nail fungus.
But apparently, an 8% solution to this reportedly can cure nail fungus in two weeks.
So what's wrong with this picture?
So there's great potential out there.
I think that's all I wanted to say now.
I want to start by just saying that one of the things I like doing is talking to audiences
that are kind of new to cannabis.
I spoke at the Association of University Technology Managers.
So these are the tech transfer offices in universities that try to get patents on whatever
it is their professors have discovered.
And then once they get the patents or at least the patent applications filed, then they find
a licensee that wants access to that and they'll pay a fee and the university can replenish
its research funding and so on.
But universities have completely stayed away from cannabis because they don't want to lose
their federal research funding.
And you know, you touch the plant and you might lose all your research funding and a
lot of universities would just dry up.
So I had a chance to talk to them about the cannabis industry in I think about February.
And I realized, all right, these people might be where I was a couple years ago, where well,
when I first got into the cannabis industry from just my more conventional law practice,
I didn't know what CBD was.
I went to MJ BizCon one year and they're talking about CBD.
I had to look it up.
And I realized, now you all, I mean, some of you have been in this for generations as
many of you your whole life.
But I was talking to an audience that had begun to hear about CBD.
And they said, you know, well, what I said is a few years ago, none of us in this room
had heard of it.
And now your grandma and your dog are both taking it.
And they knew that's true.
And then the newsflash was cannabis has way more than just THC and CBD.
And you know, depending on which number you believe, it might make 150 different cannabinoids
plus all the terpenes.
And Ethan talked about many of them, but it makes way more than the ones he talked about.
Plus the flavonoids.
And what's really interesting is at the receptor level, and I learned a lot about receptors,
some in grad school, but also some working with a company that found natural insecticides
that were based on the way essential oils, completely safe essential oils acted on the
receptors, the olfactory receptors in the insect system.
Okay, now let's stop there for a second.
Why would that happen?
Because plants evolved their essential oils as defenses.
And so somebody thought, well, okay, let's look at, instead of looking at these one at
a time, let's try making pairwise combinations.
And some of them were more potent than the most potent chemical pesticides.
Others were extremely potent repellents.
And it was completely natural stuff.
You could spray it on your kitchen counter.
All the flies would die.
But you could wipe a piece of bread on it and eat it.
And it wouldn't taste very good, but you could do that.
So the point of all this is that as soon as we start to look at the plant as not just
THC or CBD, or it's way more than just how high is the THC, how high is the CBD, what
is the terpene profile?
There are so many different active molecules that could act at different receptors in combination
and create amazing synergies.
And sometimes I don't think that even shows up in a COA because some of these molecules
will be active at levels that are either just at detection or even below detection, but
their activity at the receptor could be really powerful, especially in combination.
So the reason I'm going into all this is that I honestly believe that the future of medicine,
the next century of medicine, is going to come from this plant.
It's not going to come from manufactured molecules in the pharmaceutical industry.
I'll just stop there for a second.
Have you heard of combinatorial chemistry?
The way pharma discovers many of its drugs is it starts with some core, and then it makes
a million variations on this core molecule, and then it has something called high throughput
screening where it tests those on cell cultures to see if anything happens.
And it's just completely random.
It often works if you have enough of a sample size and you can afford it.
But instead, how about if we look at molecules that we already know operate on human receptors,
in many cases for an amazing array of benefits?
So what does this have to do with this, what Ethan calls barefoot breeders?
I've worked with plant breeders my whole career since I was a plant scientist before I went
to law school, and so I kind of got channeled to that in the first law firm I was in.
And I worked with some companies that were developing special fruits and flowers that
had great commercial potential, and we helped them launch their licensing programs all over
the world.
Well, when I get into this industry and I start seeing what the struggles that plant
breeders, who are passionate about the plant, the struggles they face with taxation, regulation,
licensing, just funding, and I realized, okay, I've talked already about standing up to Big
Ag.
We need to be different from Big Ag.
Big Ag is going to have the firepower to do microassisted breeding and genetic engineering,
all of that stuff.
Let them have it.
My sense is that we have in this community, and yeah, I would say community is a better
word than industry, especially in this context.
We have people who have decades, individuals who have decades of experience breeding the
plant, and we have at least hundreds of them, maybe thousands.
And if you think about how we can be different from Big Ag and actually be way damn better
than Big Ag, we've got the biggest R&D team in the history of pharmaceuticals or medicines.
And it's all, this isn't even, if we just took a snapshot of what people have in their
greenhouses, in their seed collections, we've already got way more person years of R&D on
plants that are promising to be way more powerful than combinatorial chemistry or even microassisted
breeding.
And so my sense is we don't know all the things that cannabinoids, Ethan's been talking about,
we know cannabinoids one and two is THC and CBD.
He's been talking about maybe cannabinoids three through 10, and they've got all these
amazing potential potentialities.
But then let's talk about cannabinoids 11 through 150.
We've got to be able to find them.
We've got to be able to at least detect them in high enough levels that we know which plants
to breed to elevate those levels and then elevate the levels enough that we can start
to figure out what the hell they do.
But is there any doubt that, you know, if one through 10 have these incredibly powerful
effects, any of which can be used in the right way to have a beneficial effect, do you think
that 11 through 150 are going to have some value?
Absolutely.
So we don't know what it'll be yet, but it's super exciting.
So our Barefoot Breeder Program is that I have, what I've found as I've worked with
a lot of plant breeders is some of them are really good at business.
And the ones that are good at business, you've heard of them.
Or some of you are here.
But it's like, okay, the gene that makes you a good plant breeder, whatever that gene,
and it's not genetic, but if it were, the gene that makes you a good plant breeder and
the gene that makes you a good business person, those are not linked, right?
It's a happy coincidence when that happens, but it's a coincidence.
There are a lot of people who are passionate about plant breeding and really good at it
who don't even want to be entrepreneurs.
They don't want to start their own business.
They don't want to go find funding.
They don't want to hire lawyers and on and on and on.
And after talking with several breeders that were like, they exactly fit that profile.
They had amazing work.
They'd done amazing work.
They had amazing cultivars.
But zero interest and maybe zero opportunity to become great entrepreneurs and take the
cultivars they had developed and really get them out there to the world.
After several of these kinds of conversations, I realized that somebody ought to have something
like a record company where the breeders are the songwriters and the singers, and they
don't have to be good at anything else.
All they have to do is do what they're passionate about and be good at it.
And then somebody else steps in and says, okay, we got you.
We'll take it from here.
And by the way, like a good record company instead of a bad one, we will take care of
you.
You'll be proud to work with us.
You'll get paid fairly, and we'll get your work out to the whole world.
And so you can even have groupies.
In fact, we all wish we had the groupies that Ethan has, right?
We were talking about that a while ago.
Just watch.
So anyway, the beauty of this is that they can be good at what they're good at, and then
they can let somebody else take care of the rest.
So I talked to a few people about this in the industry, and they were pretty receptive,
very receptive to it.
And then I went to a friend of mine who has been a really good CEO for some startup companies
that I've worked with.
And I said, hey, would you be the CEO of this?
And he said, no, but I'll help you be the CEO and not fuck it up.
Edit that, please, I guess, maybe.
And so actually, Ethan and I are starting a company called Breeders Best.
And it's really going to—this isn't even a pitch for that, because there needs to be
more than one of these.
There needs to be a whole ecosystem of companies like this so that breeders have choices.
My example of that is how boring would downtown be if there was one restaurant and one bar?
There's got to be competition.
There's got to be selection to really establish what is a fair market and what is a vibrant
market and to give opportunities to as many breeders as possible.
So we're the first ones to try this model, I think.
And our goal is to figure out, to hopefully be good at identifying cultivars that really
have strong potential and then protecting them.
The breeder will own the rights permanently.
The breeder owns the rights.
We would be the licensee, and we would help them get this out to the world.
And then probably the most exciting part of this is that you've heard Ethan's wish list.
He might now have access to a whole R&D army like the world has never seen before.
If we can communicate this and we can enlist breeders to say, hey, we can tell them, go
look and see if you've got this already.
You might already have this.
And if you don't, go make it.
Ethan wants it, and he's a rock star, and he's going to make you famous.
So that's what we're working on, and we're excited about it.
This is not meant as a company pitch.
It's meant as having us all think about the vast potential here and that there are lots
of ways to get from point A to point B, but we need to get from point A to point B.
This is us taking a shot at it, but I want as many breeders as possible to really succeed
at this.
Yes?
Does this vision include, for instance, barrels of seeds?
Are we going to be able to test some of these things and sift them out and figure out what
they are?
Is that part of the vision you think?
I think if we ever have the money...
Right now we have $10,000 in investment, which is pretty much paying for some t-shirts and
a booth at Emerald Cup.
But it's a start, right?
If we had the money to do that, I would love to...
Some legacy breeder brings his or her seed collection, and we grow them up and test them.
One of the breeders that I'm already working with, he's a dear friend of mine now, and
he actually sent some samples that we will be able to try later on.
He did a vegetative testing at early stages of some seeds that he obtained and found decently
measurable levels of THCV even in the leaves.
Selected some males, crossed them, and he's been working on this project for a few years,
but what he gave me on my way up here was a cultivar that is 8.5% THCV and 17% THC and
got a bottle of it that we can try.
The point is that if we know what we're looking for, and people have these incredible collections
and they have so much passion to, you know, let's put the chocolate with the peanut butter
together and we might get something that tastes good.
I think there's incredible potential.
I really do believe that it is old school plant breeders that are going to change the
face of medicine in the next couple generations.
Absolutely.
And it's you.
It's you and your friends.
I want to do what I can to help with that, but it's not, it doesn't depend on whether
we do a good job of this or not.
It depends on opportunities like this, not only this, but opportunities like this for
this great army of breeders.
I wanted to say one other thing that I'm really excited about.
Cannabinoids 11 through 150.
We know that if you can find it, if it's there, it's going to do something with a cannabinoid
receptor because that's what cannabinoids do, right?
And so one of the things that we're doing on kind of a heavy science part of this company
is we're going to look at, and I could talk about this now because we've done what we
need to do to protect it, but we're going to look at not just flowers.
If cannabinoids evolved as defense molecules, do you think the plant might want to defend
its roots and its seedlings and its marrow stems?
We're going to look at other tissues to see what turns on the cannabinoid receptors.
And if we find some there, we'll go to the breeder that let us test this material and
say, hey, guess what?
You got some cool genetics there.
If you want to work on developing this cannabinoid, there could be a real pot of gold at the end
of the rainbow.
So that's something that with investor support we would fund.
But I really believe that the discovery and use of cannabinoids 11 through infinity is
going to come from old school breeding.
That's what I think.
Thanks so much, Dale.
And if we didn't seem excited about your 8% THCV, oh, we are.
We are.
We're excited to smoke that later.
34.95% total cannabinoids.
Yeah.
That will be exciting.
He's really proud of his work.
Let's do that later.
Yeah.
Okay, cool.
I'd like to add one thing.
Yeah.
You know, what Dale said is not just theory.
I can't say too much about this, but one of those undiscovered cannabinoids has shown
recent testing to be an order of magnitude more potent than THC.
So it might explain why something tests at 10%, but people are getting their minds blown
by it.
So there's incredible potential out there.
And again, following on to what Dale said, we know a few of the biosynthetic enzymes
of the cannabinoids and a little bit in the terpenoids.
But how the plant controls that, turns on and off those genes, has not been worked out
at all.
So again, these are the kinds of things we'd like to work on, but it will require having
the profiles that are worth investigating to find out what makes this particular chemovar
tick.
You know, I can work on what it's good for, but again, we'd love to give you the targets
and have you get to work.
Awesome.
And Ethan, what about the four F's?
Food, fiber, fuel, and pharmacy.
I feel like you covered that.
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, again, you know, I'm fond of saying that if you're on the proverbial desert island
and had to pick one plant, of course it should be cannabis.
We've been talking about...
Or a potato.
Maybe second.
We need to make a hybrid.
Yeah, but unlike the potato, with cannabis, you not only have food, you can have medicine,
you can have clothing, you can have fuel.
I think it's hard to burn a potato, but yeah.
I've burned potatoes.
Sure.
Yeah, apparently.
Another thing I wanted to emphasize is, as mentioned, other parts of the plant can be
really valuable.
You're all familiar with fiber.
I'm a walking Patagonia ad.
I'm wearing a good amount of hemp myself.
But beyond that, I mentioned the fan leaves before.
They actually contain a .2% of a thing called cannaprene, which is a very promising anti-inflammatory
agent.
Right now, going to waste, nothing's been done with that.
I think you're probably familiar with hemp seed nutrition.
One of the most complete dietary ingredients on earth, having very important essential
fatty acids, as well as a high quality digestible protein called adestin.
This is in comparison to soybeans that contain genistein, which is actually very bad for
your gut.
Soybeans were described in China for 1,000 years before they appeared in the diet.
It took them 1,000 years to figure out how to use them in a way that wasn't bad nutritionally.
That's why in Chinese food, you see sprouts and fermented products.
You don't see raw soybeans being used.
I'm not an edamame fan, I will say that.
If I turn those down at your meal, you know why.
And then we've got the roots.
The roots have been used traditionally in medicine for as long as the flowers have.
Interestingly, they don't contain any cannabinoids, but they have very important other benefits,
like a decrease amount of alkaloids and things called triterpenoids, which again, are very
important anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer effects.
Dale mentioned the flavonoids.
I'll just talk about one.
Flavonoids are very important antioxidant molecules.
If you have a lot of good vegetables in the diet, you'll be exposed to flavonoids and
these will exert benefit on helping to prevent cancer and things like that.
One in particular, canflavin, A and B. Canflavins are unique to cannabis.
They haven't been found in any other plant.
They have an anti-inflammatory profile that is considered ideal in that they have the
benefits of anti-inflammatories without the liabilities of the non-steroidal anti-inflammatories,
which are all acting through enzyme COX-1 or COX-2.
But the side effects of those are well known.
They produce ulcers.
They can produce heart attacks or strokes.
Canflavin doesn't have that activity and should not have those side effects.
These are again, just a few of the products that we could extract or produce from cannabis
beyond the flower.
Excellent.
Thank you so much.
