My name is Don Newman. I'm currently the director of cultivations for High Life
Farms in Cheson, Michigan. Previously resided in Denver, Colorado where I was
the head grower for the Herbal Cure. I was brought here to help get the grow
going and online and also just help with expansion and moving forward with the
company. So can you kind of talk about the execution of that?
How big is the grow operation? What was the build-out process like?
Did you get to put input into like what lights we use, what grow media we use?
Absolutely. As the director of cultivation those are things that you
all have to design, you know, and what we do is like a yearly schedule as well.
Everything's very detailed and specific. Nothing is just kind of on a whim, right?
So when it comes to big investments and big companies all this stuff needs to be
planned out. So it's very important to plan it out and have a good team in
place. So, you know, as far as the build-out goes it was an old auction
facility, you know, and they had like old tractors and stuff. So it's an old
building that we kind of revamped, right? 80,000 square feet and inside that
building we have a production facility. We have an extraction facility, right? So
we have two companies as well that are associated with High Life Farms. And then
we have a 10,000 square foot indoor grow right now that currently has four Class
C 1500 plant licenses. And so it's 6,000 plants total and we just finished 17,000
square foot greenhouse that'll house 7,500 plants as well. We have plans for
expansion to another 7,500 indoor plants. So for that facility alone when we're
said and done we're looking at 22,000 plants we'll be maintaining there. What
we do is when we design those facilities we look at how we how we operate, right?
It is a very kind of California. We're more of a sea of green kind of maximize
our canopy, right? So we use more plants per light and we should do a shorter
veg time, right? But for our method that's how we've always been successful and
that's what's worked for us. We grow biosynthetically, you know, so it's a good
mix of organic and synthetic. All biological IPMs. So once we go to flower
we don't spray and we use, you know, predatory bugs to help combat any kind
of issues that, you know, we are always prevented. We're always, excuse me, what's
the word I'm looking for? We're proactive not reactive. Yes, sir. And I think that's
a big part of growing, right? And another big part that I think people don't
understand is getting a team of passionate people, right? Because anybody
can grow cannabis but in order to get the true quality that that that
homegrown quality that people love and know you really have to put your heart
and soul into it and you have to find passionate people and that takes some
time to do as well on a large scale, you know? And we've been thankful that we
we've been able to find a very good team of dedicated passionate employees and
we've been very successful. Did you bring a bunch of people from Denver with you?
No, no we did not bring a bunch of people from Denver. We've just been
hiring locally, right? And we have on the cultivation side it's seven people just
for the to manage the indoor grow and that's a manager and then a team lead
and then five employees and then we have I want to say a harvest manager, two
leads and about ten trimmers, right? So they kind of help with the harvest and
the tear down of the room. So we... How many turns are you doing indoor at the greenhouse?
We run a nine-week cycle so we run anywhere from 63 to 68 days and so we'll
do 21 harvests a year and then between that and the greenhouse it'll total 42,
right? Because they'll each be getting 21. So and what we've been seeing we have
48 light rooms and we've been averaging around three and a half pounds of light
so we're pulling usually anywhere from 150 to 170, 170 pounds of room. So we've
been very successful with the way we've been set up. And what kind of lights are you using?
We're using right now phantom double-ended to flower under, excuse me,
and then we do LEC, light emitting ceramic, 315 watts for veg but we're also
trialing a lot of LED products as well like we have some Govita, some Thrive
Agritech. Through this little convention here we got hooked up with Spyder so
we're gonna be sampling some of theirs. I've seen a lot of great success with
their products so you know I think there's a lot of opportunities out there
and that's the beautiful thing about this industry is it keeps evolving and
there's always something more to learn, something new that you can gain from
this, right? Can you talk about what you've noticed with... because you have a...
you've worked with a bunch of different types of lights like specifically
ceramic, like what do you like about it? What's... What I like about it... What's its place and
what's its role in the... For me, if my plants are happy I'm happy, right? So that's what's
important and what I like is I like that the color rendering index is 95, right? So
out of a hundred. That's the closest that they can mimic to indoor sunlight. So
it's a very high rating on that. The plants seem to respond very well to it.
It's a very natural light. You get great resin production from it, you know, and
the plants seem to stack very well. They bush out very well. Same with LEDs. LEDs, I
personally think you get a little better internodal spacing. But you know just
through all these different kind of mediums and being able to play like... I'm
not somebody who's smarter than anybody. I just am willing to try different
things and I'm not afraid to look stupid. As far as lighting is concerned, you know,
there was a lot in the beginning with LED. There was a lot of those Spider-Man
lights, if you will. The blue, the red spectrum. They're kind of very harsh on
the eyes and they were very like cheap, if you will. So it kind of like turned
people off to the idea that LED could be competing in this market, right? Or be
efficient. But you know, since the last couple of years they've kind of... You've
really seen the progression of that. And then the other beautiful thing too is
energy companies will work with you because you're able to give back to them
and not take such a demand on the grid that they'll pay for half the cost nine
times out of ten on upgrading these lights, right? So it's a huge savings
right there. Not to mention your electric bills and everything. But you know, just
the evolution of the resin production, the terpene profiles, and just really
trying to get the full potential of the plant to be brought out indoors just
like it is outdoors, right? And trying to mimic that sunlight. I don't think we'll
ever fully get there, but you know, we've still got a ways to go and a lot to
learn. But as far as, you know, the future and what really excites me is
greenhouse production. I think that's kind of the way to be efficient. And as
far as like, you know, once we get bigger and bigger and bigger, right? It's all
gonna be about efficiency and who can provide the best product at the cheapest
cost, right? At the cheapest cost per pound. And I think always...
What is your cost per pound in the indoor right now and in the greenhouse?
We have not had a harvest in the greenhouse. Our first outdoor...our first
greenhouse harvest will be August 6th. So we're actually going to be
transplanting our first production around July 1st. So we're quite excited
for that. But our indoor cost per pound is...it's a little proprietary, honestly.
That's something that just due to, you know, market demand pricing, it's just
things that I guess like, you know, it's something that we always work towards
getting cheaper, you know? And I think that no matter what, when you care about
creating a good quality product, you're not necessarily worried about the cost,
right? So it's always important to be efficient, but at the same time it's
important to create a good quality product. Because at the end of the day,
good cannabis is always going to sell itself. This is a market that...it's a
connoisseur market, right? And those are your returning customers. The, you know,
the larger companies who shoot for kind of that middleman mentality, right? The,
hey, let's just try to pump out biomass. There's a market for that, but those
people are going to come and go, right? Those connoisseur customers who loyally
return to the dispensaries, they want a product that they can rely on, right? And
those are who we try to appeal to is the growers who want to go to the
dispensary, right? Because I'm a grower myself, so if I didn't want to smoke my
own product, then I wouldn't be able to sit down and talk to you eye to eye or
man to man, right? Because I believe in what I do and I believe in what I
produce, right?
So your market is kind of that connoisseur market. So what cultivars are you
cultivating and are you like chasing hype strains? Are you like, this is what
I love to smoke and I'm going to grow that out?
No, and honestly, it's a combination of everything, right? And that's one thing
that I'm thankful, you know, at High Life Farms, we're always pushing, right? We
usually pop about a hundred seeds a month, if not more. So we're always
hunting new genetics and we're always pushing the limits and we reach out to,
we have a good relationship with a lot of breeders, like Relentless Genetics,
Raw Genetics, right? These are guys we test for. So we're able to get our hands
on genetics before other people do. We want to create the hype, we don't want to
chase the hype, right? And now, while there is quality out there, we want
strains that last the test of time. I'll give you a great example, right? Purple
Punch is a phenomenal strain, right? We all know and love it.
It's a beautiful strain, looks like it's the most potent strain of all time, and
when you're growing it, has the most insane smells of all time. You're like, oh
my god, this is the Mecca of weed, right? No, once you smoke it, you find that it's
those long stalk trichomes that give it that crazy coated appearance, right? But
all the oil and the potency is up in the head of the trichome, right? So it's
not that it's more potent, it usually tests anywhere from 19 to 25 percent, at
least in my experience growing it, right? So it's one of those very deceiving
pictures, and in this Instagram kind of
generation that we're in, right, everything's about visuals and not so
much about terpenes. And again, a lot of that old-school bud, right, like ChemDOG,
LemonG, right? These are strains from back in the day, Northern Lights, right?
They are not the most visually appealing, but when you smell them, your mouth
absolutely salivates because they're overloaded with terpenes, right? And
that's kind of like a lost thing. So we try to have a lot of classics like
Triangle Kush, OG Kush, ChemDOG, right, like the actual ChemDOG, GDP, things like
that. But we also, again, we'll go for newer stuff like Dosey Dose, right, as a
classic. We do grow Purple Punch. I feel like Purple Punch is great beginner weed,
right? We also grow the classic Blue Dream. We have a nice Santa Cruz cut, you
know, I know that's one that everybody likes to hate on, but at the same time
it's also the number one selling strain in the industry just because people
coming into it, that's what they hear, so that's I guess what they're going to
gravitate towards, right? So you have to play the market as well, right? Like, so
while we're able to have fun, we still want to appeal to everybody. We don't
just want to...we grow a lot of heavy indicas because that's what we like to
smoke, right? You know, Rocket Fuel, Junior Mints, a lot of archive gear, you know, so
Pucker OG.
I kind of view you and a lot of other cultivators as the equivalent of like a
very accomplished musician who's told to go play a bar mitzvah and like play some
like, you know, top 40 music. And you're like, but I could play amazing jazz
music. And they're like, yeah, they don't want jazz. They want high THC. They want
the popular strains. They want the Instagram strains. So you have to balance
kind of what the market wants and what you truly love to be like, I wish you all
appreciated this.
Right, but absolutely. And while...and that's another problem I have, right? Is
people want to blame this industry or blame the market, right? Why don't we take
responsibility? That's my responsibility to educate people, right? As a grower, as
someone in this industry, to educate them on, hey, it's not just about looks, it's
about smell, it's about flavor, it's about effect, right? All that matters.
You don't get to corner those people in the dispensary. So now you're relying on
the bud tender.
No, but again, this is where technology is a beautiful thing. They can reach out to
me through Instagram, right? And I'm able to educate that way or...and I try to stay
very open to people and always very educational because I'm never here to
hide anything I do because I'm always evolving, right? So if I teach you
something this year, next year, it's going to be different because I figured out a
new technique. I figured out a new strain, right? So I'm not scared to share kind of
anything like that, you know what I mean? Certain things, like business-wise, you're
not really able to say. That's one thing, right? That's a business aspect. But as
far as a growth, you can come tour our facility. We'll show you what we got going
on, right? And we're very open and honest about it because we have nothing to hide
and we believe in what we do.
So talk about...you said you're pinot hunting right now. So what are you popping
and what are you exploring? What's making your eyes light up?
Well, we just got done running a lot of the archive gear. He just dropped a lot of new
Moonbow crosses. So what Moonbow is, is it's a dosy-dose times Skittles male
that he took, right? And he crossed it to a lot of his classic strains. So like
Hollywood Pure Kush, right? And that's called Flavor Pack, right? And so we just
ran through...we normally pop around 50 seeds of each strain. Just that they say
around a 5% margin and you can find the specific pheno the breeder wants you to
find. So they say about 50 seeds is a minimum you can pop for that. At least
that's kind of some people's schools of thought, right? So that's kind of the
theory we fall under. So we usually go for about four packs per strain is what
we pop, right? So out of there, we usually end up a 50-50 is on average of what
you'll find between male-female, right? So we're looking at around 25 females. So a
good selection, right? And just really, really unique terpene profiles that are
kind of pushing the boundaries of something different, you know? Like just
like rosy, gassy kind of just almost a full spectrum, right? Like it's very
interesting in a palette, if you will. Like it it paints like a rainbow of your
senses when you smell it. It's very unique and interesting. You know another
one we're about to finish up and take down from him is Rainbow Driver. So that's
Sunday Driver from Canerado Genetics times Skittles. And you get a lot of
again like rainbow fruits, right? It's melon, it's oranges, it's limes, right?
Like it's not just one, it's strawberry. It's a whole kind of wave of
flavors and it's just very, it's different on the senses, right? You're
used to smelling like, okay this strain smells like lemons. But then when you get
it's kind of like it brushes by you, almost like you're like driving by it.
Like a fruit stand, right? You know and you just get all the flavors at
once. It's very unique. Relentless just sent us a lot of his new rosé crosses. So
we're popping some gelato stuff. And then we brought back a classic headbanger
from Karma Genetics we popped, right? And that's Biker Cush and Sour Diesel. And I
think that's one thing that has kind of been lost is like a really good sour. And
I feel like Karma is doing a very good job of bringing that back in seed form,
you know? I grew, AJ's cut a sour diesel for a long time. And if you take it any
shorter than 11-12 weeks, I mean the terpene profile is not there, right? And
in a lot of these commercial gardens that's just not feasible, you know? So
we're lucky to run on a nine-week schedule, right? So most, you know, majority
of everything we grow finishes in that time and fades out nicely. But those kind
of longer-running phenos seem to take a little bit longer and he's managed to
shorten that flowering time but still get those great sours and cushes brought
out of that, you know? So those are some of the genetics we're really looking
forward to, you know? And then, you know, classics like Dosey Dose is one of my
favorites. Canerado Pucker, which is lemon g times triangle cush. It's like very
bright lemons and then like a dark diesel that finishes. It's almost acidic,
if you will. So very devastating but great for daytime as well.
What are some tweaks you've done to your methodology over, let's say, the past five years that you've noticed allow the plant to express itself from a terpene perspective to its fullest?
And that's the thing is every time you, you know, every time I grow these strains
I learn something new, right? So it's always very humbling and that's the term
master grower is always very hard for me to comprehend because I don't believe
we'll ever master it. But what we learn is, is the one thing I notice is when you
bring in new genetics, not necessarily popping seeds, right? But when you bring
in new genetics from someone else there's a rule of three in my opinion.
Like I have to cycle through that strain. I have to flower it three different times
for it to acclimate to me, right? And for me to see its potential. Like just like
when you get a new house, right? You don't have your routine set up, right? It
usually takes you about six months before you're kind of in your groove. You know,
same with these genetics, right? These are living, breathing things like so they
operate the same way and they can get stressed and they have to learn your
feed schedule, your style of growing and acclimate to you. So, you know, I believe
it's about a rule of three for that to dial in but then again like a great
example, right? Is we're starting to experiment with different pots. So we
always ran Royal Gold with three gallon pots, right? And then we're like, okay, why
don't we try two gallon pots and we can get away with less water? And we found we
got bigger plants, right? We're like, this is mind-blowing, right? And so we're like,
why don't we try one gallon pot? So we tried the charcoalers, right? And no
transplanting and saving a crazy amount of time, you know, in labor. So huge cost
savings right there. And we found we're getting just as big of plants.
But what we see though in these different mediums is we see different
phenotypic expressions. Gorilla glue, for example, right? Like I'll get a great mix
of sourdough and chemcys and chocolate diesel when I grow it in the Royal Gold.
But I'm noticing now in my first trial of FloraFlex pots with cocoa, I'm getting a
lot more of the chemcys kind of phenotypic expressions, you know? And so
it's just very unique. It almost looks like a different cut of gorilla glue, you
know what I mean? So but it's the exact same cut and it's just very interesting
how in the same rooms, but just changing the home for the roots, right? Changes the
plant, you know? So just these little tweaks I'm noticing, all this stuff adds
up, right? So you know, I think Adam Dunn put it best. He looks at growing as kind
of like a report card, right? And you start, everybody starts in school with an
A. And then you miss one homework assignment, right? You miss one watering.
Okay, now you're in an A-. You, the lights accidentally stayed on for 15
minutes extra, right? Okay, now you're at an A. You know what I mean? So all these
little stresses start to add up and then you lose the true genetic potential
of these plants. But the less we stress them and the better we get them, we get
them from clone to harvest, we see the true potential, right? Because all that
stress, while we may not think, oh it came back, okay, a couple days later. That
couple days was huge, you know what I mean? So you're losing a lot when you're
trying to time these plants.
I think there's good stress and there's bad stress, right? So like pruning is an
example of good stress or topping is an example of good stress, right? But like
letting your plants wilt till they almost die or light stressing your
plants or wind stressing your plants, I don't think necessarily is the best
thing, right? You know, I think like, you know, manipulations like pinching, pruning,
low stress training, things like that, right, are beneficial. And low wind stress,
but again, there's beneficial stress and then there's unbeneficial stress. So it's
knowing the difference between the two and when to apply them.
Yeah, I think part of the reason why I'm asking is because like, you know, in the outdoors,
as a plant, you're experiencing all sorts of stresses and pressures.
And terpenes are kind of how the cannabis plant protects itself. Like it
can sense what's coming. It will exude terpenes to deal with whatever the issue is.
And so if you're looking for a terpene expression, it's almost, you want that
plant to endure different stresses and not kind of just be like a house plant
where everything's perfect and it never has to suffer in any way.
No, absolutely. And again, it's just going back to those good stress versus the bad
stress, right? And knowing when to implement it, you know. I think if you're
trying to snap a bunch of tops at week six, that's probably not the right kind of
stress you want to apply to plants or things like that. Right.
I guess like what are your theories that sense on this subject? Right.
What how do you feel about that?
Well, that's why I kind of love outdoor cultivation, because I feel like, you know,
even though you can play God in a totally controlled environment,
is that really allowing the plant to be kind of like you never think a coddled kid
is going to turn out in some way.
Exactly. The best people, you know, have had a fucked up life.
Right. You know what I mean?
And those are your favorite people because they've been tested.
They have character.
So as an example, like your greenhouse is probably a little less controlled than
you're totally indoors. So you're in the middle of growing in the greenhouse.
We could probably take an example to some stuff you've done in the past, like
same strains in the greenhouse versus indoor.
What are you noticing differences?
Like you're like, these are the same genetics.
We're growing right next door to each other.
But I'm noticing a difference.
Absolutely. You'll notice, you know, they'll revert back to seed vigor.
You can take a dotted plant from indoor and put it out into the sun and reinvigorate
it. Right. And it's like, why can we do that?
That says something right there that, yes, like you were saying, indoor, you are not
getting the true potential of these genetics.
There's something about the power of the sun that we're not able to mimic.
And it's I don't know if it's all the UVs or exactly what it is.
I'm not very educated as far as that goes.
So I couldn't explain that. Right.
But I do see that these plants do perform differently and they perform better.
Right. This is their home. And that's what's got me excited about greenhouse production
is because I'm able to dial in the environment, but harness the power of the sun so
that we can get the best of both worlds.
Right. And that's one I truly believe we'll be able to see the full potential.
What's your opinion? Yeah, I agree.
I mean, I.
From a variety of standpoints, I'm not a big fan of indoor.
I mean, I think from starting with like the environment, like in California, you have
all these desert roads, you have all these it's one hundred and ten degrees outside
and you're building an indoor facility with a ton of, you know, HBS lights.
Right. And meanwhile, like L.A.
County is a good example.
L.A. County is 40 percent ag land.
And grows amazing fruits and vegetables.
Yet the ordinance is that you can't grow outdoors in L.A.
County. You have to grow indoor in a very small commercial area in the entire county.
And so the policy is pushing towards indoor, but I think long like long term when you
can sell cross border.
And I'm not just saying from Michigan to Illinois, but like from anywhere to anywhere
in the world. Right.
What are you going to see?
Are you going to see as many indoor growth?
Like. No, absolutely not, because it's again, it goes back to that chasing that cost per
pound and getting that down always right and being as efficient as possible.
And when you can harness the energy of the sun without having to pay these enormous
electric bills, how could you compete against that?
Right. You can't.
So that is the evolution.
And I agree. And I think it's just, you know, it's just an ignorance on a lot of
people's parts and a lot of misunderstanding as far as is what this plant can provide
for us and for the economy as well.
Right. And I think the more people get educated, the more they understand, you know,
those laws that people will be more open minded to.
OK, we can have greenhouses.
It's not a big deal if a school bus drives by a cannabis grow.
It's going to be OK.
You know what I mean? Like it's not the end of the world.
What are some lessons you've learned along the way about like batting pests and
pathogens?
So like as you scale indoor, right, like powdery mildew, mold, you get thrips, you
get spider mites.
Like what have been lessons you've learned over years of doing this that have allowed
you to reduce?
You know, this is your proactive versus reactive.
So what are you doing to kind of reduce the possibility of mold, powdery mildew?
I think it comes down to a good IPM, you know, and have a good understanding of
environments. You know, I taper my environment like people will taper a feed
schedule as well. Right.
So every week it's going to vary a little bit, you know, till the end.
Right. And so it's having an understanding of that, having an understanding of your
growth style and how to properly prune your plants so you don't get microclimates.
Right. Those are huge factors, especially on a large scale facility.
Having the proper sprayers to know that when your guys are spraying, they're actually
covering every inch of the leaf surface, because once you leave one spot open, that's
how pests build, you know, what's the word I'm looking for?
Resistance. Right.
Things like that. And just having a good understanding and the proper setup.
Right. A lot of people want to try to do it cheaply.
You cannot grow cannabis cheaply.
Right. Like it's it's profitable, but it's not to grow good cannabis is not cheap.
Right. So while it is profitable, it does take a large upfront cost.
Right. You need heavy amounts of air conditioning.
You need HVAC as far as or excuse me, humidification and dehumidification.
Right. You need a wind movement, rolling tables, irrigation, things like this.
And how are you going to water and understanding all that plays a big part in it.
You were implying before that you do foliar spraying, right?
Yes, sir. Yeah. So what are you putting into the spray?
Like, what do you what do you.
We'll do a biological spray.
So if anything, it'll be like a serenade product.
Right. You know, again, because we use biologicals for to combat any kind of like pest
pressure, you know.
And so that's how we're able to stay without spider mites, without hemp russet mites,
without thrips, without root aphids.
Anything like that. And our plants are able to stay happy and healthy.
And how frequently are you spraying?
We're in veg.
We'll spray every three days.
We'll spray with a biological or we'll spray a beneficial like beneficial like a
nutrient spray, if you will.
Right. Like we'll make seaweed and silica.
Right. You know, just to kind of help strengthen up cell walls of the plants.
That way, if some reason my pests don't catch it, the seeds will be able to grow.
And that way, if some reason my pests don't catch it, the silica is so thick on the
plants that the bugs can't even bite into it.
Right. You know, and just kind of understanding that balance.
Again, also understanding how to prune properly.
Right. Like and making sure like you remove as many families as possible to not have
those microclimates, but without overstressing your plants, you know.
So just having that balance.
But again, having a good having a good sprayer and having a good IPM schedule and
understanding how to rotate.
So you use like an atomizer kind of like buying this sprayer.
Exactly. Exactly.
What do you use?
Like a dram or like.
It's almost like a car, a paint sprayer, you know, and it's like a handgun.
And then we have a big reservoir.
But the beautiful.
Backpack.
No, no, no.
Like a cart. Yeah, exactly.
Because the hose. So, you know, you imagine trying to walk down an aisle with a
backpack with trellis up and then turn around, you're going to get caught up in it.
You know, I can't ask my guys to be efficient in that kind of environment.
Right. So it's also creating success for your people to implement what you ask them to do.
And again, are you making do you compost to use?
Absolutely. We use a lot of beneficials, you know.
So we'll do like OG BioWarm mixed with earthworm castings and stuff like that.
And then a little bit of kelp and molasses, right.
You know, and things like that.
We'll brew those up or we'll use like the Impelliobio, the Tribus or Recharge.
You know, those are great products that we like.
But yeah, so once we move over to flower, though, we stop spraying, you know.
So that's where we kind of differentiate ourselves as far as commercial growers as we try not to
spray the plants just to allow them.
You know, I feel like, you know, trichomes are so sensitive and any kind of
damage you apply to them, it has a long term effect.
Right. You know, I've seen great product that's been sprayed.
But, you know, the less you can spray it, the better it is.
Right. Just like the less you stress it, the better it comes out, you know.
So again, that's what we always aim for is trying for the highest quality.
So once we move over to flower, our environments,
you know, we just believe in our environmental control and then we let the beneficial bugs take over.
Have you ever personally made like bubble hash out of your flower?
We have an extraction department that does. Yes, sir.
But you personally?
Out of like home flower, but never like. Yes, sir. Yeah.
What home flower have you grown do you think that lends itself to making the best hash?
For home use?
In terms of yield or flavor?
Whatever you're looking for. What are you looking for when you make your own hash for personal use?
What are you looking for in the trichome?
Well, I think like, you know, there's different textures of oils, right?
Like an Oji Kush is going to give you a very like sappy oily kind of right.
And then a Khamdi is going to be a little bit grittier.
And then a strawberry guava like has a more sandy trichome.
So you're going to get like a drier kind of a sift, right?
You know, and so it just really depends on what kind of mood I'm in because it's always changing, you know.
So, you know, one cycle I'll grow some Oji's, right?
And I'll be very into that wet oil, right?
And then the next round, I'm like, I want a little bit of fruit, right?
So I'll switch it up.
And then I usually find you get this kind of sandy or not always right.
But, you know, the sandy or kind of trichome heads from that kind of oil.
Trichome heads from that kind of stuff.
But right now it's very much into the like just like that wet live resin, you know.
And just like with the turps and everything, it's very beautiful.
Almost like that applesauce texture, you know, and you got to like stir it up.
Back in your old market of Colorado, who's crushing it?
Like who do you just respect as a cultivator or an extractor?
Oh, man, there's in Colorado quite a few people.
The Herbal Cure always, you know, they gave me my first opportunity
and they gave me a place to call home, you know.
So I'm always thankful for them because, you know, without that opportunity,
I wouldn't be able to be here today talking to you, you know, and I wouldn't have met,
you know, my good friend Ben who gave me the opportunity to come here.
So, of course, first and foremost, them, I believe, 710 Labs as far as commercial hash
is pushing boundaries, right?
Green Dot Labs is another one.
What is 710 Labs doing that you think is boundary pushing?
Like what do you notice in your like...
Man, they run like no-till beds in their flower, right?
They're really just about cultivating the best oils and they don't even go for,
at least the way I heard it, right?
And I could be wrong.
I don't want to be misspoken because I have a lot of respect for them.
But I heard they kind of have some kind of system where they go for like oil per light,
not necessarily like pounds per light, right?
And so just kind of they're changing the game and that kind of mindset and the way people think.
And I always appreciate that because that's breaking the mold and they're always trying
to educate and push boundaries.
And, you know, when I look at people like that, it makes me feel like I suck, right?
And then that's the best feeling because then I get fired up.
I'm motivated, right?
And so, you know, Green Dot's another great example.
He always has new genetics.
He's always breeding something new and his hash is phenomenal, you know?
So he's pushing a lot of boundaries, you know?
And are these guys 7'10 and are they growing indoor, outdoor, greenhouse?
You know, I believe 7'10 is doing indoor.
They also are in California as well.
I don't know if they're doing any outdoor and I'm not sure.
I know Green Dot has indoor.
I'm not sure if they're doing any outdoor for them though.
But I do know like they also, I believe, like if your product's good enough,
they'll like process for you, right?
So I'm sure they might process for some outdoor people.
So they'll look at your trichomes and tell you if it's good enough.
Yes, sir, exactly.
And those are my favorite kind of people, right?
It's like I think you should be judgmental when it comes to your weed, right?
You should be concerned about what you put in your body.
Like you don't have something to filter this, right?
It's getting directly into your bloodstream.
So you should be a little more mindful, right?
And it's helped me be mindful in like my health in general, right?
Because then it's like, okay, well now I need to eat better, right?
Like, you know, for the longest time I was more concerned about
making sure my plants got all the nutrition while I was like eating Cheetos, you know?
And now it's like it's helped educate me, right?
So it's like this back and forth relationship of like,
how can I get the best out of it?
And then through that, it gets the best out of me, you know?
