All right. Welcome, everyone. There are just two of us. Ten minutes in and our musical
guest called in sick. I guess someone in the band got sick. I don't know if that's coronavirus
sick or food poisoning sick, but that was about 10 minutes ago or actually like 20 minutes
ago. Thank you, Kingfisher. That just blew by. Yes. What he said. Except for the featuring
Bo Band part. Family tree seeds. Tyler is putting the kids to bed right now. Hopefully
Kevin will jump on imminently. Jackson. Ray was the only prompt on time person, so I appreciate
that. As I do this and I'm like, wait, where's everyone else? Yeah, pretty standard. Pretty
standard. So anyway, so you're you were how's your year been? Because you said something.
Yeah, it's been, you know, moved, took on and started another new job and another new
outdoor project, greenhouse project. So that's been challenging. Like, you're always going
to way or in a. You know, anytime you learn in anything, it's in a good way, even if you're
learning bad things. OK. Right. At least you're learning, you know. So, yeah, it's been challenging
in multiple ways, for sure. But, you know, there's always progress to be made and you
can see the small steps that you're taking to get everything in the right path pretty
quickly. So it's it's starting to level out a little bit. But, yeah, moved from over by
Laguna Second Raceway the week before I was two weeks before we were supposed to move.
We got evacuated because the fires, the fires out here in Cali this year were horrible.
And then I moved to Santa Cruz. So then Santa Cruz fires were going on at the same time.
So it was pretty crazy for sure. Right now, that's intense. I mean. It's interesting is
down here in SoCal, we didn't really get it this year. I mean, last year and the year
before were brutal. But now when you told me you were in Santa Cruz, I didn't know that.
So I was like, you're in the middle of the people, the area where we're raising money
for. Yeah. Yeah. And there's definitely a lot of people that need it. Most of those
people up there in the hills are off grid. So there's no insurance or anything like that
for them. Right. It's kind of crazy to think about that. Wait. So what about where because
you were in Oregon before or where? Yeah. Yeah. I was in Oregon. And what happened there this year?
Bad fires again up there. Fires were horrible. You know, I saw the same thing up there as we
did down here, the red skies, which was just crazy, messed with everybody's outdoor crops
pretty good because there's no sun coming in and all the sun and all the smoke and all
the ash. Yeah, it was brutal. It was definitely brutal. Right. The majority of the West Coast
on fire. It's crazy. And are you in Santa Cruz? Are you working with the same crew?
Actually, can you give a Pablo update? I want to talk to him.
Pablo. Pablo.
Actually, let me text him and see if he wants to.
Yeah, you should.
Tell me some Pablo stories.
Pablo is a great guy. You know, I originally met him when Shord brought us all together to go work
on that harbor side project. We became roommates and lived together for two and a half years.
Great guy. Bend over backwards for you. Yeah, he's very, very positive, very uplifting. And he's a
great guy. I love the guy. But he moved to Oklahoma when it went medical out there. He went out there
and he got himself he applied for a license and wound up getting one. So he's out there doing
some things. I'm not exactly sure if he's working his license or not, but I know he's got some really
good things going on out there that he's really happy about. So I'm pretty happy for him. He seems
like in a really good spot for his head for sure.
When the crew was all together, what were like his ninja skills? Like what was he really good at?
Pablo is just good at talking to people. I mean, you know, he's a he's very he's got a silver tongue.
He knows everybody. And he everybody likes him. He's just a super likable person. He's he can, you
know, just like all of us, he can do it all. But yeah, we all have I guess we all have highlights
within reason. You know, he's a great grower. He definitely knows knows what he's doing, how to
resolve situations and pivot like you have to a lot in the cannabis industry. But yeah, Pablo is
Pablo is a connector. One of his best one of his best traits for sure.
Well, what's funny is most people probably have no idea who we're talking about. But we'll bring
Pablo on at some point and you will all greatly appreciate Pablo.
Yeah, probably.
And and I still love that nobody else. I sent an email to like 10 people with the link to join
20 to 30 minutes ago. So it was either me all alone and then the band canceled.
I go no. Yeah, well, everybody thought they had a 20 minute break delay with the band going.
So what were you breeding this year?
I did find a nice quantum male that I'm using. We had lost our old males. So all of our old
lines are retired at this point in time. We still have our moms, our original moms.
But our males, our time wreck male and our doctor who male got lost, which happens,
you know, we had that time wreck male for seven, eight years, something like that, maybe even
longer. Had a great run with him. Made lots of seeds, sold lots of seeds, lots of happy customers.
But yeah, I've got a new quantum male that I'm playing with. We've got a bunch of doctor who
crosses that we did small batch at Dog House Farms in Oregon that we've got a lot of things
in there that are looking pretty tasty. That probably wind up doing some more breeding with.
But as far as made any seeds yet this year, no, I have not. I've been doing selections.
Got it. So do you want to put something up for auction tonight?
Yeah, absolutely. I busted into my personal head stash.
You know, it's just and by the way, can you aim the camera slightly down? There we go.
Is that better?
It was like the up the nose shot.
Oh, shit. I got burgers.
I did not. I did not see any.
All right. Good. Good. I'll have to go and clean. But yeah, yeah, absolutely. You know,
like I said, we did a small batch of Dr. Who male crosses that we didn't do any. We didn't do any
releases with. Very few people got any of the seeds. We did a good germination of them at
a good germination of them at Harborside. But yeah, other than that, they haven't nobody seen
any of these. So yeah, we'll donate some 10 packs or a few 10 packs or however, whatever somebody
would like for sure. Absolutely. All right. So we'll we'll give it a minute before we start it.
I'm waiting for our tardy emcees to show up.
Which is usually not me. That's why I'm like, what is just me?
Right. Understandable. Understandable. Yeah, we got some like SFV by Dr. Who, some triangle
by Dr. Who. There's a few different things here by Dr. Who. We got Star Killer by Dr. Who.
Yeah. There's a few of them here. The lemon we did a lemon
gene by Dr. Who, which we're calling lemon who, which has some phenomenal phenols coming out of it.
Very lemony, very sweet candy. Yeah, not much of a big lemon fan. We never did much work with lemons,
but that one turned out quite nice. Yeah, I think we're we talking last time about kind of like
what what do you like to smoke? Like what's your what's your jam? You know, I like pretty fruity
stuff. I like sweets. I like I like smoking stuff that after you smoked it, you walk back in the
room and you're just like, wow, that smells great. More relaxing. I'm not much of a sativa guy.
I like to relax more so than good uppity. But sativas have their role, I guess.
Our quantum is pretty nice. I like smoking it. But you seem like a very chill dude to begin with.
Yeah. So what is chill weed? Does it does it? How much more chill like what's your your ambient
chill and then you're like, I'm high chill. What's the ambient chill? You know, when I'm normal,
I talk a little bit, not a whole lot. But when I'm, you know, nor when I'm high,
yeah, I hardly talk at all. So you go from quiet to extremely quiet. Yeah, pretty much. Okay.
And you and you go from a happy place to another happy place.
Yeah, pretty much. You know, go from that cloud nine to cloud 10. Whatever.
Got it. So Antonio Vasquez is asking where can I get his genetics? Well, right here, right now.
It's the whole point of what we're doing right now.
Cascade, remember last time it was just you and me for the first 10 minutes?
And then tonight was just me and Ray. But now that we have our official time management
professional, should we throw something up?
Yeah, we can do something like that.
You're still what?
Working on getting set up here.
I got it. No worries.
So what do you you have how many packs?
Oh, who knows? We could cruise through here and probably pull out. I don't know. What are we doing?
Five packs, 10 packs. 10 packs are pretty much standard on.
Yeah, like 10 seats.
Yeah, 10 seats. Yeah.
Yeah, I'm pretty much done.
Yeah, 10 seats.
Yeah, so we got some Lemon Who, Lemon G by Dr. Who.
Do you want me to tell them all right now? Or do you want me to?
No, no, no, I would pick one and let's start with it. So you just said Lemon Who?
Yeah, Lemon Who. It's a cross between the Lemon G and the Dr. Who.
I am writing that down. All right. So you want to do you want to talk about it?
Nice, beautiful structure. Not too stretchy, but probably about 75%.
Very lemony. There's some bitter lemon ones there. Most of them are pretty sweet,
though. You get a lot of that Dr. Who funk that comes through.
Um, you know, that that hash plant that's in there likes to come through quite a bit.
So nice big buds. Seems to do quite well in greenhouses here in the Salinas Valley,
which is fairly rough valley to grow in. So can you talk about what it's like to grow in Salinas?
There are a lot of big commercial grows there, right?
There is. There is. It's rough. Most we're pretty close to the beach. So we get this flow of
this ocean flow that comes between two mountain valleys. We're in the valley in between two
mountain ridges. And it's foggy usually until about 11 o'clock in the morning. And then it
rolls back in about eight or nine. And it's humid and pretty chilly most of the time.
Not necessarily chilly, but, you know, 50s to 80s kind of thing. Summer you'll have a few
hundred degree days where we're at, but you go over much further and you're definitely in the
hundred degrees. But so that's kind of nice for the summertime, but wintertime can be a little bit
rough. Pablo just he's like, what's the topic? Him.
I just said I just responded you. All right. So we're at we're at 50 bucks and we'll go for
another couple of minutes while I. All right. Cool, cool. So in so sorry, it's
on the what what were you saying just about growing in Salinas?
It's close to the beach. So we get this, you know, in the Monterey Bay area here,
it seems like all the fog comes in through Moss Landing and it just rolls right through the valley
and it's foggy until, you know, 10, 11 o'clock in the morning, pretty much most days.
So it makes it a little rough. You know, we have a lot of agriculture here. Salinas is known for
as the salad bowl. So we got strawberries going. We've got all the veggies going, broccoli,
lettuces, asparagus, all kinds of stuff going, growing all the time, which is surrounding
everything. So over sprays are a big concern. They do a lot of dusting those crops with helicopters.
So that becomes an issue. But, you know, you just do swabs and get everything analytically tested.
They're responsible for their over sprays, whoever is spraying the crops.
So they can be held accountable if you fail tests and they have sprayed something. And it's what it
was. Has that ever been enforced where a cannabis farmer has sued an avocado or a tomato or a
strawberry farmer? And, you know, there has been farms where it has been enforced. One company
went bankrupt because of it. Not on cannabis, not with cannabis, but just between regular
agricultural farms. I haven't heard of any happening with cannabis yet. No. But time will
tell. I'm sure that it's going to happen eventually. It'll become mainstream more. And
some of these crops are going to get wasted. And who's responsible at that point in time? And
there's laws written to where whoever's spraying said product is responsible for over sprays or
anything to that effect. I can't. Was I muted before? So what we have. What are we at? 60 now?
80. All right. Hype it up, Odie. The quiet guy. Yeah. Well, you know, once again,
these are all things that we never released. They will never be released. So they're kind
of special that way. I will most likely be doing some more breeding with this lemon who I like it
that much. Produces quite heavy, nice big buds. Great leaf to calyx ratio. The couple that we did
have tested, tested in the mid 20s. You know, so it seems to be do do all right. Pretty high in
terpenes. Had an extraction company that did some extractions of the stuff that we ran there at a
harborside. And it was fantastic. So for the extraction folks,
the people that extracted it, they were they were very impressed about how unique it was.
All right. And did we have a we called that right. And that was one by
this in the period. Oh, yeah, there we go. There is Jason after much scrolling.
All right. So, Jason, I'm gonna. Can I and Paul said he's gonna since I said we're talking about
since I said we're talking about you, he said he's gonna hop on. Nice.
So, Jason, give me one second to get my groove of.
OK, so what why don't you guys queue up what we have next and I'll
deal with Jason. So here's one that I'll let some of these go that I did not do.
Do we just have a snipe? Oh, I know. Or I don't know. All right. We'll give that one to Jason
team member. I don't know if you're bidding on what he he's about to put up, but it was for 80.
But anyway. All right. Carry on. All right. So this next one I didn't make a good friend of mine
made while using our time wreck. Now, this is a cherry pie by Dog Walker. Cross to the time
wreck mouth. So I don't necessarily have a name for it. Definitely never released.
Beautiful, beautiful plant. Nice big buds. Nice and tall. Smoked fantastically.
Had some of that dog walker funk to it and a couple of the Fino's. Yeah, very, very nice strain.
The dog walker is quite sought after up there in the Pacific Northwest at least.
But yeah, it's it's very beautiful. It's got a bit of the, you know, the cherry pie comes
through a little bit, too. Not necessarily the net, the the balls that drop at the bottom. But,
you know, that happens. The cherry pie. It's very popular as well. So, yeah, this cross was done by
my friend and it turned out very, very well. He still continues to grow a couple of the Fino's
and does quite well with them. And we're at I see perps nerds for 70.
All right. I'm back. And look at that, Mr. Snagged Dagon. Mr. Bob, Mr. Dabolino.
Mr. Bob Dabolino. Blue, I've seen you twice in the same day.
Blue, you want to jump on and and chat? Make blue.
Actually, blue, if you're at the recording studio since our musical guest
canceled tonight due to illness. You guys could drop some main fire.
I Jason already getting in touch. Thank you. So, Trevor, if you can hear me, Jason just sent you
an email. And what are we at right now? We're still at 80. Mr. Snagged Dagon.
Nice. Tyler, I'm going to make you come on. Again, maybe. Oh, my God. It's you.
Adam, hello. Let me see if I can get my volumes correct. I got a laptop and my phone here. So,
give me a second. Adam, hello. Let me see if I can get my volumes.
All right. I'm going to mute you since I'm hearing you like two seconds.
After five seconds, after and 15 seconds after something said, we got Big John at 85.
But all right. Do we call that?
Yeah, big John, 85. All right. Big John. I think that is a.
Yep. Big Johnny five. OK. All right. So, Big John, I believe you know the joke.
But and Adam said, Adam, I wait. Adam's right there. I think the link does work, I think.
Does it when I when I hit it on my laptop, it doesn't come up on the GoFundMe page.
It's the GoFundMe dot com slash and then Cal dash fire dash relief dash CZU dash fires.
And pulls it for me. Yeah, that's the link. That works for me.
OK, the one on the bottom of the page on the laptop is not working. It says campaign not found.
But the one in the message seems to be working.
All right. So Big John, that's where you're going to you're going to reach out to Trevor,
who is standing by. We may have a visual sighting of Trevor at some point tonight
and make your donation here. Boom. Thank you.
Thank you. And so, Adam, do you want to.
Do you have any newsworthy updates you want to share with everyone?
Yeah, there's a little bit of a lag here. Are you hearing me right away or is it coming through like
10 seconds later? We hear you right away. OK, so it's just coming through later.
Later. Yeah, a little bit of an update from my end.
Kind of an unfortunate circumstance. Yesterday I had a visit from the local sheriffs.
My little hundred and thirty square foot garden with multiple notes
was chopped along with some of the seeds for the fundraiser were confiscated.
Some of the seeds that were auctioned off a few nights ago were confiscated. So I'm going to be
working through trying to contact people and figure out how to get replacements for those
from some of the breeders and from the rest of the stock we have and try and get that all sorted
out. But yeah, kind of a rough day yesterday, just kind of dealing with another episode with
the local Santa Cruz sheriffs here. And that's about where I'm at, unfortunately.
Did you send me a picture of the room?
I did not. You know, it's basically just I have a couple of little two light rooms that are both
about 60 square feet of canopy. I got three notes on the wall, which, you know, I was under the
impression that would protect my growth for my couple of patients and myself. But apparently
the local sheriffs have other ideas and they're kind of just enforcing things, how they see fit.
And this is my first run around with them. This is not my second run around. This is not my third
run around. This is unfortunately not nothing new to me. It's been an ongoing thing. But they
very much know who I am and they're familiar with me and know where I live and have a history with
me. And my gardens have gotten smaller and smaller and smaller and hasn't stopped them from kind of
just showing up every year to give me hell and kill my kill my gardens and take my work and
confiscate my seed. It's kind of where we're at today. So. Got it. Well, yeah, someone said,
what the hell is up with California? Yeah, I mean, and yeah, we've got all different counties
with all different agendas. And, you know, unfortunately, Santa Cruz was at one point
one of the most progressive counties. And then today is one of the most restrictive. And,
you know, unless you're backed with millions of dollars or the right connections, good luck
trying to get a cultivation permit in this county. I think in 2017 or so, 751 of us paid $500 to get
in line for pre-licensing registration. Halfway through 2019, I think one person had a temporary
permit. So to say that the county has dropped the ball is a little bit of an understatement.
Got it. And somebody who moved to Oklahoma where nobody fucks with you.
What's up, Pablo Picasso? How are you?
What's up, Pablo?
What's up, Odie? I was actually going to call you earlier.
You know, things are crazy out here. You know, I just came from California. I've not
actively lived in a place where there was snow that was outside of my front door.
And for over like 13 years or something like that. So there's snow outside my front door right now.
And it's fucking nuts. It's definitely taken some getting used to. But you know what? I just came
in at the tail end of that last conversation about listening to people, you know, wait in
line and trying to get all this licensing and stuff. And you know, the borders to entry in
Oklahoma are pretty easy. I was able to come out here last year on a consulting gig. And
you know, I went to the Oklahoma Cannabis Cup, High Times Cup and OKC. And somebody had told me,
hey, you know, you can get your license out here. They're going to change the law in the next three
days. And I said, wow, really? And he goes, yeah, you know, you've got to go do an FBI background
check and you've got to do a handful of other steps. But it's only $2,500 for you to be licensed.
And you're going to be able to get your cultivation license. And I'm like, really? OK, cool. Well,
I think I'm going to do that, actually. So I went ahead and within three days time, I was able to
do all the steps I needed to do and acquire my license. And I was granted a license in
last December here in Oklahoma. And I just relocated here from California.
I'm probably about three or I think it's been almost four months now. And I'll tell you what,
shit's crazy out here. It reminds me of California in like 2008 or something like that. And regulation
is coming down the pipe. But as of things have been going right now, it's been just kind of the
wild Midwest free for all. There's a lot of guys doing a lot of a lot of crazy stuff, good stuff.
There's an emerging culture out here. It's been so banned for so long that people are you know,
you should see how happy they are to be able to be in an event smoking cannabis, you know.
And we actually just was at an event, which is crazy that they had an event. But they did a
cowboy cup. There's a lot of people out there. But yeah, dude, nobody's fucking with us out here.
Tell you that. Yeah, we actually filed paperwork about 10 weeks ago to get our LLC filed out there.
And we're working with a group and should have a cultivation permit here in the next day or 10
weeks, depending on how things go. Looks like it's a little bit slow because of COVID and the
different offices and the holidays and different things. But we're hoping by springtime to be able
to make a move and get things started out there. I mean, I hate to say it, but I feel like a little
bit of a refugee from Santa Cruz where you know, we had a really great run here for 20 years. And
and you know, I don't know if you missed the beginning of that last conversation. But as you
know, I'm doing the seed auction fundraiser deal here that began after the fires back in August.
And had a visit from the local sheriffs yesterday for my little medical garden is about 130 square
feet, four lights. Got notes on the wall, thought I was protected under state law, but apparently the
sheriffs here have different ideas. So on my way to Oklahoma as well, just because, you know, I don't
have millions of dollars and I don't have the backing or have the interest of sitting down with
the people that do have the backing that I have met in order to get in bed and get a project going
off the ground here. So we're looking forward to Oklahoma and kind of starting out small out there
and doing what we do and getting back to what we love. So.
There you are. Sorry about that.
What I'm hearing is that you're yet another person who's thinking about just moving from
Cali to Oklahoma. Oh, yeah. We've already, you know, we've made a couple of visits out there
and touch ground out there and visited some farms and did some some research probably about six
months ago, seven months ago is when we first went out there. There's been a couple of trips recently.
And like I said, we've got the process started and partnered with some people. We're going to
be able to get things going, hopefully in spring. So. Nice. What area?
We're hoping for somewhere outside of Tulsa. We're still examining a couple different real
estate spots and trying to figure out, you know, trying to find the right acreage and the right
setup and working with what investment we have in Tulsa County. Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm just north of Tulsa right now. When I landed, I came in and I was in a little town called Stroud
that was just in between Oklahoma City and Tulsa. And now I'm working north of Tulsa in a little.
That Internet connection. Well, why don't we while he's reloading? Why don't we
Ray, you want to throw something else up? Yeah, absolutely. Got another one here that
the buddy of mine that did the cherry pie dog walker across the time record did as well.
It's the blood wreck. BX one. He said, he said, I got a hillbilly connection out here.
He'll be back. All right.
There's Pablo, everybody. So now everybody knows who Pablo is.
Yeah. So you have contact. We like to provide context for everyone.
Yes. And Tyler, the kids talked to this is early. They're already in bed.
They're laying there. How old are they?
I looked at the wife and I'm like, hey, quiet. Can I get out of here? And he said, yeah.
So my phone don't go off. I'm hanging out, you know, so I got some time. I got some bowls.
I got some dad. You're fully, you're fully stocked.
I'm good. You know, got some food. I got tangerines off the tree. I got some
I got some food. I got tangerines off the tree. It took walk.
That's good because we decided we're going all night to 6 a.m. and you seem very prepared.
I don't know if I'll make it, but we'll try.
All right. So we have, am I seeing, is that the high current high bid?
And then what was, what is this?
Blood.
Yes. One. So it's the blood rack back cross with our time rack now.
Cascading. Diligently typing that. Excellent. Excellent. We are a well oiled machine by now.
We got Trevor standing by. Randy Haas with a big power move from, was it 45 before up to 50.
Yeah. Strong style. I agree. We're going to the next one. We're going to start a minimum of a
hundred. So that blood rack, man, that's a magic plan. That 50 bucks is way too low. Y'all need to
come correct. That's a, I got tons of medicinal benefits. Lots of people that I know are like,
if you fall in love with the blood rack, you fall in love with the blood rack. So
it's one of those. Yeah. Ray's very modest. He undersells himself.
You need Tyler. If we all had Tyler in our lives hyping us up.
Yeah. So the time rack was also the mail that passed along a whole lot of THCV
to a lot of different genetics that we came out with. So yeah, there's definitely some
good things in here. Blood rack is a fantastic strain. Grows very well. Very mold and PM resistant.
Does quite well in cooler climates. Yeah. It's fantastic cross once again. Once again,
this is stuff out of my personal stash. So not too many people get to see this.
Someone asked how many seeds?
10. 10.
And they're all regular. No feminized.
Kevin would end team member both at 72. If two people tie, would you have two packs?
Yeah, I could figure out something like that if it breaks into a tie.
But we got team member at 80.
Well, good.
Jackson, what are we drinking tonight?
It's a Red Bull warm up.
Staying away from the heavy beers and keeping it simple. A little bit goes a long way, you know?
Just a little swig.
Yeah, Peter, real quick, if you could send Bam a link too.
Right. Now I had emailed him. Let me text him too. I was in the middle of that task when I got
distracted at some point. Chad wants the Zaza.
All right, Bam. And then what are we at? We got Kevin at 110.
Rob is looking for some Red Bull Terps.
And team member is just patiently waiting for some bacon grease.
This is the blue one. I have a plant that smells exactly like this one right here. I call it Blue
Bull. It's super nice.
Very nice.
Big John. Possibly for the win.
Right.
Yeah, people are lucky because these are all going for very affordable prices right now.
All right. Go ahead.
Did I tune in too late to miss the story from Santa Cruz?
Did I tune in too late to miss the story from Santa Cruz Cannabis over here?
I was wondering, did we get into that or is that not going to be going?
He could recap.
Yeah, I can give you a quick another recap. Yesterday morning, I got a little visit from
my buddies that come by about every year for the past five years. And, you know, they did their
normal thing. I thought, you know, 130 square foot canopy with three notes, I would have been
left alone. But I chopped my garden, took a bunch of seeds. Unfortunately, some of the seeds that
had been auctioned off the other night were confiscated. A bunch more seeds, probably a
good 100, 200 packs of seeds that are going to be going up for auction this next week.
Also confiscated. So anybody out there that did bid, that did win, let me know. Reach out to me.
We're going to get you taken care of one way or another. I don't know if we're 100% being able to
get you the same gear that you might have bid on, but we're definitely going to work our asses off
to get you taken care of. Yeah, we'll get something I can pull out more. I think I got a
I think I got a couple peanut butter breasts in my vault that I can go and pull one of those out.
I know somebody stuck this out pretty hard. I think the bid was around, I don't know, 13, 1400
bucks the other night. So definitely don't want to leave them hanging. And everybody else that's
contributed, you know, we got you. So it was just the same basic county bullshit enforcement as
always. Yeah. You know, I was under the impression that as a provider, you know, I've got a couple
people that I take care of and, you know, take them to doctor's visits and grow food for them
and give them cannabis. And, you know, I got three notes on the wall should give me 300 square feet
of canopy. I figure I'll do less than half of that. That way I'm not stepping on any toes and
I'm within my rights. But they got it out for me for years now. I don't know what the deal is, but
you know, had a visit again and, you know, they were in my house for two minutes. They're already
chopping plants down. They didn't pay any mind to the notes on the wall. They, you know, saw the
seeds and made quick work of grabbing those as well. So definitely a big hit, you know, another
just kicking the nuts. So we'll get back up and get it going again. You missed my other part too.
We were talking, had a guy pop on for a minute from Oklahoma that had migrated out from California,
Pablo something or other. Hopefully he'll be back on here in a minute. But I don't know if I've
told you, but we filed for paperwork in Oklahoma about two and a half, three months ago. And
hopefully we'll get our license here within the next eight, 10 weeks and be making a move out
there come springtime. Cool. I knew you were kind of shooting for a move out that way. So
yeah, I fought for years to try and make something happen. I mean, I made the mistake of naming
myself Santa Cruz Cannabis Company and then the state laws came out and said I couldn't go to
Monterey or Mendocino or Lake County and keep my brand. So I fought tooth and nail to try and get
something going here. And it just, you know, it wasn't meant to be. So I'm just going to roll with
the punches and see where I end up and hopefully get back into a garden soon. Get back to doing
what I love. Yep. Yeah. If you can get out there in the next couple of months, you'll be, you'll
have a good, good starting point. Absolutely. Yeah. So just quickly, Cascadian, are we, are we doing
swag happy at 120 with the snipe? Okay. And there hasn't been a, okay, cool. So swag happy. I'll
deal with you. Should we round Robin a little bit? Mr. Trees just took a bathroom break, but
there he is. I thought you had all the supplies you needed within hand's reach.
Lighter. That's a critical, critical select. I have one though. I had one though.
So, so you just fulfilled someone's auction win, right? Yes. That was, that was, that was happy
news for someone. And during the auction, we told them that basically this won't be ready for
till December. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, and there's the, all the bacon grease pre-orders and all the
auctions and stuff. They all, they all go out this week and if they haven't went out already,
everything else goes out this week. So, you know, they'll be happy. That's for sure. It's happening.
Yeah. I've learned the joys of, of packing and shipping seeds.
Yeah. You gotta get a good chair, man. My back, your eyes, your,
your neck. It doesn't matter how many tools you got, man. It's like never fun.
All right. So at swag. So Tyler, I was saying we should do round Robin. Do you want to put
something up? Sure. Sure. Do we want to do like Pam stuff? Do we want to do bacon grease stuff?
Do we want to do something new, new down the pike? What's the, anybody clamoring out there
for anything in particular, or do you want me just to pick and shoot from the hip?
Let's see. I want people to, you know, if they want something or somebody's here and they're
like, holy shit, I want something of this guys. Then, you know, ask for it. We'll throw something
up. We'll see if I got it and we'll throw it up. And that way we can get some bids rolling, you
know? So we have, I see Riley say Pam. I see Luis say Pam. I see Riley again, maybe for emphasis
saying Pam for the Aussies. All right. What about like, what about the new, the Pam 15 BXs
that I've been playing with? Pure Pam. It's the 15 side instead of the one,
you know, I'm working both sides and eventually we're going to end up combining them
from two different angles, but we've got the Pam one and the Pam 15. I could throw up the Pam 15 BX.
I can throw up a pack of 20 beans of that right now. I think Regen, Josh over at Regen, he's,
he's going to get, I think he's going to get 15 packs, something like that. So, so there's going
to be, you know, less than 30 packs or so out there in the world. So this is like the pre-pre
nobody's got them yet. If that works, if they're down with the Pam 15 BX, I got, I got them ready
to roll. All right. And should we start it at a hundred? Yeah. Start it for a hundred bucks.
And this is 20, someone asked, what is Pam?
Do you got an hour?
Yeah, so there's, there's a bunch of, there's a bunch of places. Essentially.
Jack Nimble.
Essentially.
I'm glad you asked.
Pam is old, 90s, early 2000s bags that I've been holding onto and playing with for
the past decade almost. She is a killer clone. You can see insane pictures of her.
I have the mother that, that, okay. So Pam, bag seed out of an old collection,
found this gem of a plant. It was gorgeous. We called her SMS, Sister Mary Sarah.
She was monstrous. She grew in the orchard. Like she was a nine foot beast. You can,
if you scroll way back on my Instagram, you can kind of see pictures of some of that stuff.
There's some SMS stuff on there somewhere. Beautiful plant. I did not take any clones.
It was late. I really, I figured, Hey, you know, I was, you know, I was going to get something else.
We were going to run through it. We just, it was just something to kill the time, but it turned
out like late in flowers. She, she was just sparkling like nobody's business. So I did a,
I did a three part harvest on her. I harvested the tops, left the bottom, you know, let the
middles grow up, harvested the middles. And then I harvested everything, but a couple of lower
branches down on the, down on the lower side. And I just let her rot to nature. And in doing so,
eventually at some point, you know, she turned black and, you know, started rotting the hell
over time through the winter storms and all that jazz. And when I finally cut her down,
she had hermaphrodite or caught some stray pollen or what have you, 10, 11 seeds in that batch.
Out of those seeds, I popped about half of them. Pam popped out of there. She was the colorful one
that had like the modern bud structure, was durable, didn't have any problems, strong, stable,
beautiful, resilient, cloned quicker than any of the ones in the batch, ended up being my keeper.
I kept that around for, you know, a couple of years, grew it over and over again, fell in love
with it. Decided to get it tested to try to figure out what the hell she was. I heard old
Kevin Jodry talking about Phyllos back in the day. I was like, hell, I'll send a snippet of the old
dead stem to Phyllos and see if they can gene map the thing. Maybe she, maybe, you know, maybe it'll
tell me her lineage. Came back with no valuable information. She sat kind of alone in her galaxy
with no relatives that was related to any stuff that they had tested so far.
So I just decided to hold on to her for a little while longer. I eventually popped a couple more
of the beans. Out of those beans, I got a male. You can call that one of those super males.
You know, you can call it stray pollen, you can call it what have you. But it was a beautiful,
beautiful male that grew robustly. His flowers were really sparse and not very full. I didn't
keep it around, but I did breed with it to make the F2 generation. Made the F2 generation,
grew a whole bunch of those plants throughout time. Pulled out a couple of winners. Tested
the winners. The PAM-15 came out of that winning group. That one is closest to her land race roots
and my morphological characteristics. Kind of high, very, very sativa, stretchy,
open bud structure, coated with resin, excellent washer and presser. Kind of a, not a racy weed,
but not a couch lucky weed. Kind of a time loss weed. Really euphoric, kind of just, you know,
just get a project going, project weed, I call it. And if you, like I said, you see pictures of
that, you're like, holy shit, it's pretty out of this world. As of late, I'm four or five
generations in, a few back crosses, a couple of different things. I've, you know, talked with
several different people. I kind of got it narrowed down. I think it's a, you know, a Himalayan type
land race, something close to Wailing Valley. Got some, a lot of morphological formations and
other people there and things like that, you know, throughout time, all the characters kind of match
up. So it's somewhere around there. It's a unique plant, great to smoke, fun to grow. It's, it passes
along a lot of like durable, awesome characteristics, color. Clones pop roots in seven to nine days all
the time. I hate those long friggin 14-day, you know, rooters. And I mean, it's insane. You throw
a bunch of Pam clones and with all your other clones in there, it's like, man, within seven days
you're looking at it, holy shit, we got roots already. And it's been that way for years.
She's resistant to a lot of different bug pressures. I mean, she doesn't fall to it.
She'll get, she'll be like the last to get a problem. Thrips is a real big issue for me down
here in SoCal. Doesn't get a lot of power and mildew issues at all down here at all.
If you, if you go through the rains and you're in a real wet, tough, you know, real tight Northwest
climate or rough Canadian climate or down dirty South, you might have some bud rot issues if
you're getting stormed on and rained on. But indoors, she's an awesome plant to grow. Greenhouse,
she'll tolerate light depth, all those types of things. But in a nutshell, it's kind of a rarity.
And only recently have I started putting out beans to, you know, to the world to ensure that,
you know, she's in the system and God forbid anything happens that, you know, she'd be out
there. So the Pam 15 BX, I like the 15 a lot. I go back and forth. Do I like the Pam one?
Do I like the 15 more? Do I like Pam one more? And some batches I like the 15 more,
some batches I like the Pam one more. It really just depends on the batch.
The effects are very similar to each other. Pam is way more, Pam one is way more modern
and bud structure and kind of look. Pam 15 is way more rugged, way more kind of out of this world.
Very cool, very old school looking. Smells like a dirty smoke shop with some musty funk.
There's some cheese in there. There's some berries in there. But it's really like a dirty incense
BO smoke shop, you know, an old, you know, bodega smoke shop or something like that, you know.
Very cool, very cool plant. About nine to 11 weeks, I like taking the 11 weeks flower,
you know, it definitely will thrive if you take it long. And it's definitely true to,
you know, a longer flowering sativa type root. But you can take it down earlier and it's
pleasurable. It'll flush up, hairs will die down, it'll look like it's nice and ripe. And you can,
you kind of pick your ripening points. You take it longer, you get the must, you'll get the wine,
you'll get the, those nasty characteristics. You take it early, you get more, more light,
more berry, more, more sweetness to it. But it's, it's badass, man. Pan and bacon grease.
So the PAM 15 BX is basically, it's PAM 15 to a do-si-do resin male. And then out of that group,
that, that's bacon grease is PAM 15 to a do-si-do resin male. That's the bacon grease line. And then
that male goes back to PAM 15. So technically this is PAM 15 bacon grease in a weird way,
you know what I mean? Because it's the back cross that way. So it's a, it's a PAM, it's a
back cross in that, in that way. So PAM 15 do-si-do resin stud back to PAM 15. Kind of.
So Tyler, I love that if we need time filled, you're willing to step up. So we, we have,
we had a winner. We had a winner and that was Riley Quinn.
Oh, he's in, he's in Australia or something, I think. I think, isn't he? Yeah. Okay.
He is in Australia. Yes.
I remember, I remember that name. Okay, cool. Right on. Right on, Riley.
And Riley, you never gave me an update on whether you had good news or not. So
don't think I forgot. So I want, I want Ray to put, I'll take care of it. 250.
So I want Ray to put something up and I want Tyler to hype it up with Jackson providing
color commentary. Because Ray's very modest and I want to see what happens.
So Ray, what do you, what do you got?
So I got one we created strictly for Geek Farms in Oregon. They have a Blue Jay,
which was a cross between our Oregon Blues by Jilly Bean.
And I, and I, and I, and I, and I, and I, and I, and I, and I, and I, and I, and I,
and I actually, before you start someone asked, someone said, I came in late. I
missed the Pam story. Can he tell it all over again? No, I'm joking.
So this one we made for Geek Farms only. It was a Blue Jay by Time Rec. The Blue Jay is a
a Jamaican by,
Jamaican blues by our Quantum Kush,
no, Sweet Irish Kush.
And he crossed that to a Jilly Bean and got the Blue Jay.
And then we crossed the Blue Jay to our Time Wreck Mel.
Once again, these were made for Geek Farms.
There's only been a few of them given out.
They did give me the okay to give some out,
sell some, whatever.
I figured this would be a great place to do so.
They've done more breeding projects with the seeds
that they got back from this.
It's mainly what it was for.
But this is where farms get into creating their own,
you know, their own strains.
So it's kind of how it works for them.
And it worked for us.
We call it muffin tops because it's very sweet
and fruity, a lot of blueberry.
The Jamaican used is a Jamaican Blue Mountain Kush
that I got seeds of.
We did some work with it originally,
but it doesn't do so well indoors.
So they never really went anywhere,
but it passed along fantastic blueberry flavors.
So there's a lot of blueberry muffin
kind of flavors in there.
I know that there's already another blueberry muffin
out there, but we call this one muffin tops.
There's only been, like I said,
geek farms run it quite a bit.
And there's been a few people that were given it,
but that's about it.
And just quickly to confirm,
are you the homegrown natural wonders dude?
I am.
That's the guy.
I feel like you did a pretty good job on that one.
And Tyler.
What's the flower time on it?
What's the colors?
You got any colors?
Flower time, we'll go eight to 10 weeks.
There's definitely a lot of purples.
That Jamaican passed on a lot of color,
a lot of purple, the Jilly Bean of course.
Jilly Bean is infamous for her flavor.
And that came through quite well.
He had what he called the candy store Fino.
So it was very sweet, very candy.
The Blue Jay itself was phenomenal.
So yeah.
And Pablo says it's the best part of the muffin.
Are they spears?
Do the nuts connect?
They all produce spears.
Yeah, yes, they do.
It does quite well.
It produces very well.
Nice spears.
Not so tight that it's issue in greenhouse.
We ran some in a greenhouse here in the Salinas Valley.
It did quite well.
The flower time is a little rough
for the commercial people.
But for the guy that has the time to take,
it's a very beautiful finishing strength, absolutely.
And what are we at right now?
I have no idea.
I think, was it the purple nerds?
All right, Tyler, you need to move this up to 500.
Well, that's a tall.
Hype the shit out of this.
You guys are out in Oregon.
Is that farm in Oregon up there?
Yes, it is in Oregon.
So everything that we produce is very high mold resistant,
powder milling resistant.
It's kind of our thing.
We grow mainly for rainy wet conditions
and breed for that factor.
So yeah, a lot of our genetics were picked
due to those facts, absolutely.
Absolutely.
I love turning people on to stuff
that's like grown outdoors in the Northwest.
Because I mean, it's already mold and mildew resistant.
They can, it's harder for them to fuck it up.
You know what I mean?
And at home in the tent and all that jazz.
It's a much durable plant.
Those are good trace to fricking play with it.
So I'm around with that.
And you're in the South.
I always get people calling me from the South,
that whole like belt, like, fuck, I got powdery mildew.
They're always trying to fight those types of things.
I'm like, dude, you gotta just steer into the genetics
that really don't, they shake that stuff off.
So this is where you get them for sure.
Right.
Yeah, I know we have several people in the Northeast
that grow and say that, yeah,
everything else around them had PM,
but our stuff seemed to do quite well.
And I'm pretty sure that that's the reason why
is because where we're breeding,
it's very wet, very damp all the time.
And someone asked, this is 10 seeds too, right?
Yes.
Okay, so we got,
someone said we can buy homegrown, whoa.
Are the seeds that are available in Spain legit?
Yes, for the most part,
we do have distribution over there, absolutely.
I guess it depends who you get them from, but.
Yeah, like in any case, right?
I mean, I see people that shows peddling everybody's stuff.
They take it and they F to it and now it's theirs.
Yeah, see right there,
ran a bunch of Odie's gear in the Pacific Northwest,
no issues.
Thank you very much, Flora Nugs.
I mean, I can't stress enough, man.
It's like when you got a bunch of plants
and or just a few plants
and they all get fucking sick because they're weak.
I mean, there's no fucking shit
you're feeling in the world, you know what I mean?
So it's like I learned long ago, man,
they're weak, they gotta be fixed
or you gotta go places where they're geared
towards your climate or your situation,
plant for success.
Absolutely.
And that was, who won that?
Cascadian or someone?
I think that was the original bidder.
Which was who?
Herbs, Merd69, I think.
Oh, at 100, right?
That one?
Yeah, I think so.
And Tyler, what, wait, what fruits are you eating right now?
And this is all local stuff, right?
Yeah, man.
Like what'd you just harvest fruit-wise?
I walked outside, so right now,
a lot of the citrus are ripening right now.
Citrus avocados are coming on,
so Huerte avocados are just now starting to come ripe.
Citrus, like tangerines, we got,
right now, both my older sons like the satsumas,
but my younger son, my youngest son likes the Algerians.
So there's Algerian tangerines,
there's novas out there, there's satsumas out there,
there's some Washington Able oranges
that are just now starting to kind of become edible.
They color up early, so technically,
you don't start eating until February,
but as soon as they start getting color,
we start picking them and juicing them,
they're good and a little zippy,
but they're definitely good.
But all the tangerines right now are killer.
You know, there's another, here's an Algerian.
These ones are a little bit brighter,
they're easy to peel, seedless,
frigging little candy stompers, man.
You just yank them off the tree and go, you know?
So, keeps me alive, man, keeps me alive.
But that's the cool thing, no matter where you're at,
well, some places really are under ice,
but for the most part, there's something coming right
somewhere in your neighborhood, you know what I mean?
More so here, but even up North,
there's things that are ripening up
and giving right before the hell comes down, you know?
So, do you have something in the bacon grease side
you wanna put on or put up?
Yeah, man.
I could do one or two.
Let's see.
We can do just a straight up pack of bacon grease.
We can do a bacon grease F2 pack, 12 ounces.
We can do a bacon grease F2 pack, 12 ounces.
12 beans, ready to rock and roll, no problem.
We could do a skunk water PAMDEMIC,
which is a frigging, that's gonna be,
that's like your super secret treat right there.
Skunk water is dog walkers to a Sour OG Kush
back cross three times, so Sour OG Kush BX3,
worked by my buddy up in Fresno.
It's a frigging awesome, nasty plant.
Gas and flavor, nub structure thing is beautiful
and delicious.
That got put onto the dog walker.
We were both in the same competition years back
where we got the same cut of dog walker,
so I know his dog walker is the same as mine.
Frigging legit from Kevin.
Nasty as all hell, still hold it today.
We put that on that and then I took that plant,
we called that plant skunk water.
I went through those.
We played around with those back and forth for a little while
I pulled out a frigging, I pulled out two,
a nasty ass sour leaning Fino towards his
that looked just like his OG BX3 had that turf on it.
Kind of the frame and all that stuff.
It was basically his sour, just strong.
Then I pulled out one that was more dog walker leaning
with those nasty, just rough garlic and chemi type tones.
Basically this is the sour leaning Fino
across to my Pamdemic stud.
My Pamdemic is a, he's a resin stud.
Pamdemic is a triangle cush, Chem 91 and the Pam.
You've got Chem 91 and basically that,
originally came from Caleb CSI, the TK Chem 91.
So you know that one's legit.
CSI humble, Caleb CSI, he took the Chem 91
and he put it on the triangle cush.
I went through those seeds at some, you know, over time,
pulled out a winner, worked with that,
read it with my Pam line, put together the Pamdemic,
pulled out a stud.
All this shit takes time, man.
It's crazy that I can even like pull all this together.
Pull out a stud, he's a killer resin stud, still hold him.
He hit that skunk water Fino, sour Fino.
So that's the skunk water Pamdemic.
And there's only literally, there's literally like
a handful of seeds that I got out of those.
That's what I was gonna play with and kind of search through
and pull out that funny little thing that, you know,
was gonna be the next big whatever.
And I'll put up those.
If somebody wants some nasty gas like that, that's great.
If all that was for nothing, it killed time
and I'll throw up the pack of bacon grease, it's all good.
No problem, but we could do, you know, like I said,
that's the deal.
I was gonna, you know, yeah.
So I'll shut up, I'm gonna hit my dad.
You tell me what they want and then I'll talk some more.
Yeah, while you hit your dab, swag happy.
I just went to that link and it worked.
If it's not working, just send us an email
and we'll figure it out tomorrow.
But I just resent the link.
So wait, so what are we putting up?
I know you just talked about it for 10 minutes, but.
So if the chat says bacon grease more than skunk water,
pandemic, give them five seconds.
Whoever wants skunk water, throw it up there.
Whoever wants the bacon grease, throw it up there
and we'll just take, we'll take whatever one they want.
No, no, no, let's stay focused
because trying to multitask with two things going at once.
You need to put relief in front of the R, okay.
All right, so let's do the,
Luis bid 200 on bacon grease.
Jesus, all right, now you guys,
so we got both exactly what I didn't wanna happen.
Whoa.
Yeah, we, you know.
All right, so we got both.
Yeah, we, you know.
All right, so we got two going at once.
Is that what's going on here?
You know what, we can multitask this, man.
Put three minutes on that and we'll put both those packs up.
Both of them will be a 12 pack and we'll go.
Okay, and you have to specify what you're bidding on.
Yeah, you gotta go like that.
You gotta go skunk 225, you gotta go bacon.
Skunk or bacon, man, skunk or bacon.
Throw skunk or bacon.
And we'll see how good we are, right?
We don't have to do this all the time.
We'll see how good we are.
But yeah, no, the skunk water,
every single thing that I ran through,
I was really impressed.
I was sending him texts weekly, you know,
and like, man, you know, a couple of my buddies
down the road, a couple of fruit tree people,
we all kind of just split up some seeds
and looked at a bunch of them
and they all were just freaking killer.
Good turps on them, excellent resin, just nasty.
I mean, there were more keepers and like,
hey man, I'd smoke this twice than I was used to in there.
So it was pretty cool.
Definitely a good line.
So that with the other two nasties,
the TK and the chem and then the PAMs in there,
I mean, you got some crazy genetics happening
and all rolled up, hasn't been, you know,
hasn't been worked down.
This is the first F1 cross of all that gibberish.
So you're gonna get good strength out of that PAM
because the PAMs probably, you know,
I mean, TK and chem were pretty tough against PAM
when we bred those together,
but PAMs probably the most dominant one out of them,
the most dominant breeding.
So you're gonna get some PAM in there for sure
amongst all that stuff.
Probably the structure will come through.
For the most part on those skunkwaters.
But like I said, that's the handful of seeds
that I was gonna look for myself.
And the bacon grease,
there's not gonna be that many of those.
I do have ways to, you know,
we're gonna, if everybody loves them,
then we'll keep them coming.
But right now when they're out,
they'll be out for a while.
So you get them out while you can.
Mr. Bob Davalina Snagadaggin
asked, can a mediocre new grower
grow the skunkwater asking for a friend?
So that, so tell your friend
it's a big important thing to me.
Like I was talking about earlier
that plants gotta grow for people,
otherwise they won't grow them again.
So, I mean, you can have the best stuff in the world,
but if not everybody can grow it or not most people,
you know, most people can't grow it,
then they'll die or, you know,
it won't last the test of time.
So I like stuff that clones easy.
I like stuff that's durable.
We're hot and miserable around here.
I put a lot of stuff through the test,
you know, on the scale of things,
we go through kind of a winter.
We have almost an all season type grow
and winter time is stressor
and we do things that other people can't.
So, you know, the plants get put to tests.
That's for sure.
And I don't like bitches of plants.
I don't care how good you are.
So there's been tons of plants.
I mean, that are spectacular plants
that were just kind of a pain in the ass
or a bitch to grow.
And I'll just, I'll breed with you.
I'll steal your genetics and I'll kill that plant.
And I'll just, I'll find something that'll wanna grow.
That's really important to me.
So your friend shouldn't have a problem growing it.
Short answer.
All right, Eva, are you saying you want Adam
to contact you, right?
All right, Adam, you see it too.
Okay, I don't need to tell you.
All right.
No, I think that's more of a sympathetic WTF.
All right, so we got, we got Luis who picked up,
was Luis the skunk water or the bacon grease?
Bacon grease for 200.
I can't see the chat, so I'm leaving it up to you guys.
And whoever wins, hit me up on IG
and Peter will link you up to me too.
But more times, the better.
It's Vizzoli got the skunk for 225.
Okay, and the two of you see where to make your donation.
Where to contact Trevor who's standing by.
And actually I just noticed, look who showed up.
Yo, what's up?
What's up boys?
Going down.
Okay.
We're almost full on Brady Bunch, but not quite.
It's the all dude Brady Bunch.
We need a lady.
Tyler is Alice in the middle.
You got Trevor and Bam ready to pop on.
They can fill it out.
We need you guys for a very specific purpose
to fill out the Brady Bunch visual.
Class.
So what's going on in a day in the life of Kevin Jodri
who puts his pants on one leg at a time like the rest of us.
I jump into my drawers.
Man, I just got done with like three hours
of a corporate meeting,
which is some of the driest shit you've ever done.
And I'm just so fucking grateful I spent my life
in the hustle because I would have killed myself
seven times already if I had to live that life.
Holy shit.
The fucking minutiae, every detail of every piece.
And it's just never ending interpretation.
So I'm glad I'm out of it.
But man, it took me three hours, Christ.
So otherwise, everything's going pretty good.
We got rain, which is killer
because this drought's just been kicking the shit out of us.
So it's been coming down pretty good.
So it's nice to see the region green
and it's crucial for next year's outdoor.
You know, I mean, the environment's more important
than me growing grass,
but you can't grow grass if you don't have water.
So it's nice to see everything coming back
and all in all, pretty good.
Yeah, we've,
I like, so we have Tyler who's bringing the high energy,
Kevin bringing the high energy.
The rest of us are very low energy right now.
Do you wanna put something up?
Yeah, sure.
What do I got that's kind of cool?
You know, I have access
to that really nice Black Lime Reserve 2,
the F2 we did that was like super lime,
just crystal, crystal clear.
And then for the charity piece too,
I got a really killer GMO cherry pie.
They call it Bicket OG
and I got it from Nick Risdin and it's just stellar.
And we don't wanna put it out in any kind of quantity,
but it's, I wouldn't say like a GMO improved,
but it's got that same, you know, thick funk
that the GMO has,
but it's got a little sharper on the inhale
and it did beautifully outside.
I mean, just really nice.
And so it finished, you know, end of Octoberish,
first part of November, but took the weather just fine
and just absolutely is killer weed, man.
I kept a shitload of it for myself, it was so good.
And so I think that those are two things that, you know,
the lime is because that lime flavor that, you know,
Gene's so like, I also wanna say,
I don't know if anyone was kind of like
created the genre of it, really.
I don't think anybody else really pushed that direction
as much as he did.
This lets people touch some of that really rich lime.
And if they bred into it,
they'd be able to tap into all the stuff
that's inside that lineage.
And the plant does beautiful outside
and it's just really crisp, clean.
So they're really two nice combinations
where one of them is like an ethereal clear
and the other one is heavy sit down,
but the cherry pie brought a little bit of complexity
to that GMO flavor.
And I think it's supposed to shorten the time a little bit,
but outside, you know, to me,
it's all like around, you know, November 1st.
I mean, if you're gonna run any of these longer things,
it's, I mean, shit like Blue Dream,
really got to go to like mid November, really,
if you really wanna ripen it.
But two of them beautiful.
And so I think that that would be something
that would be nice for people to get their hands on
that isn't in the normal world.
You can't access them so easily
and they're both really heady.
So it just depends on, you know, what your direction is.
So you can put them up as a double,
you can separate them and have them as separates
if you wanna, you know, auction them off in that capacity.
But that's about it.
The, I had done this.
Yeah, because a lot of times when you start putting up
like seeds that are valuable, the bids go through the roof,
but then you end up having problems collecting on the dudes.
It's almost like you can see why when they have auctions,
they make people post a fucking bond
before they walk in the door that says,
this is how much money you have.
Otherwise you got people waving their hands
and then it just screws it up.
So the main point is that we're, you know,
trying to assist people that have need
and whatever's a fair price for those.
And they're both beautiful
to really different directions in terms of consumption,
but both of them do really well outdoor.
And the Cherry Pie GMO, that thing yielded.
It absolutely threw some fucking weight.
So if you were to mess with it,
it has, you know, really good potential.
So if you only had a space to put a plant or two out,
it'd be a good one to do.
And gorgeous.
Same GMO structure though,
long extended, bud set fills in,
spiral, but beautiful density
and that funky garlicky musky scent.
But I really liked the Cherry Pie influence.
And Nick's got a good palette, man.
He can select.
And so they had a Cherry Pie go off in a room
and it threw pollen on that GMO.
And he went through a bunch of the seed sifting
and a lot of them were shit.
And that one turned out to be just Stella.
So I ended up getting a copy from him
and I ran it and I loved it.
And somebody for a charity purpose
needs to get their hands on it.
Okay, so why don't, yeah, let's separate them.
And which one do you want to do first?
Oh, either one.
Cause I mean, I'm holding them both.
And so all you gotta do is once we figure out what's up,
just refer me to the buyer.
And I'll take care of it from there.
Okay, Jackson, which one would you like to see up first?
I'm gonna put someone on the spot.
I don't know, you can flip a coin on them.
Just A or B, man.
I don't know, people were asking about Black Lime Reserve.
You're saying it's the cut that you got, Kev?
Or you're doing the F2 seeds?
Nope, it was, we took the original release
and F2'd that original release from years ago.
Okay.
And then out of that F2,
we pulled out a super liney one
that almost has really, has like the hint of the gas,
but it really, really grabs that rich, rich, clear line.
Just like, you know, years ago,
when you first turned me on to your lime,
it was just so cool, crisp, you know?
And that's what I was looking for
because I like the heavy gas,
but it doesn't let you appreciate the richness of the lime.
So we went through a population,
my buddy Alex pulled that nasty one out
and I keep it for my head.
So, you know, same thing.
It's not in any kind of population for, you know,
big reproduction.
It's just that I love that profile and I hang on to it.
And I know that people can't get their hands
like on a sorted stock.
And so for some of these auctions, we put a couple up
and the people who got them, they just stoked.
Yeah, it's awesome.
So it's different than your original number five.
It's a later one.
Yes, it's the number five.
And then another male selected
from that original release went into it.
So it's a progeny off that five cut.
Cool, and I think you picked those out
of probably like 30 or 40, right?
Like I gave you, I think I gave you-
The original one was, yeah,
the original one was a good sift
because I had a ton of the packs that I picked up
from that original release.
And then this one was out of a shitload of them
because, you know, fuck, you have to do it.
So there was, you know, ocean of seed to play with.
Cool.
And the hunt was for really,
the hunt was to really get as much
of the chem dog reserve out as possible
so that we could capture that lime flavor.
Yeah, and I showed you the lime one, mom.
So you were one of the people-
What was the-
Who really knew what to hone in on.
Yeah, because, yeah, you sat down with me
and you let me kind of see what you were playing with
and what you were trying to put together in it.
And so it kind of let me understand to keep digging
so that I was like, oh, I got you.
Because once I got to smoking with you,
I realized what that crispness was.
And so then it was a hunt to get something
that was in that form.
And outdoor, it did great, man.
No mold problems, big open frame, just beautiful plant.
I wouldn't say it's like exceptionally heavy,
but heavy enough to make it worth your while to grow,
but just beautiful flower and crisp, clean, sharp,
beautiful.
What was the male like that you picked to get there?
Was it, do you remember about the male,
any traits in particular-
No, my partner picked the male.
To find that line, or was it just,
it took a bunch of seed to find it,
or did it pass that trait pretty commonly?
No, my partner picked the male,
so I didn't select the male.
I did the female selection.
But what I noticed with a lot of the black limes is,
because we went through tons of them,
it's hard to get the chemdog reserve part
out of the equation.
And it's not that that's a bad thing to have,
because it's really a funky, musky, deep, chem-flavored plant.
It's just that it takes away from the lime citrus.
And I think that that lime citrus is so hard to find
in the cannabis world.
You really, really don't see lime really often.
And so it comes down to really going through the ones
that are emanating that smell,
and then smoking them all to find out
which one doesn't have the gas on the exhale.
Yeah, I'm always looking to see what male passes what,
and try to find that.
So I'm always like, well, if I'm looking for this smell,
does this smell have this smell?
Am I matching it?
Am I going against it?
Am I trying to look for it?
So I'm always trying to figure out
what the fuck does it pass?
But I've also noticed-
Totally, totally.
Males influence the flavor more times than not.
When I'm crossing a male,
like more than 50% of the time, I see him.
I'm wondering if any of you guys have that.
I always wanted to ask me and Gene or you,
like whenever I use a male on a female
that I wanna capture the flavor on,
if I like this female and it tastes delicious,
if I use an outcross from another male,
I always find that the male dominates the flavor,
usually over the female more times than not than the other.
And then you're saying that the Chemdog Special Reserve
is hard to get out of there,
and that's the male that went on to the female again.
You can't get that frigging smell,
or you can't get that taste out of the line
because it was the Chemdog, the male passed that flavor on,
and it's hard to get it out of there.
So I'm just wondering if that's-
I think it depends on your progeny though too,
because like we'll use the Royal for example.
I don't care what you throw at the Royal,
it lets you know that there was Royal in it.
So it's hard to mask the Royal,
and we're only working off of the female, right?
Like the original female that everything went into,
it seems to transfer those traits pretty consistently
through everything it touches.
But I noticed that when you're playing with gas varieties,
they mask a lot of subtleties,
and because gas was so trendy, none of us cared.
And now we're looking for more complexity.
And so I have, it's funny,
the whole story with the Chemdog stuff,
but I got to mess around with enough of it
from that selection group,
that it was just really a typey, deep, funky,
powerful, potent, developed transfer of flavor.
And what we were seeking was Jeans Lime,
because I have gas up the ass, I got plenty of fuel.
I don't have that lime.
And that's what we wanted to get.
And then we wanted to get it in a nice body,
open construction so that it was good for outdoor,
and you didn't have to leaf it too much,
and it had enough of an openness
to where your inner has got light too.
So it was good growability.
And the selection wasn't for commercial purposes.
It was really for just head.
You know, what was gonna give us that piece?
When we went through the selection,
we had another one that had a similar lime tone,
but an undercurrent under the gas,
and it was probably double the production.
But when we all went through and smoked everything
at the end of the season,
the one that I had was smashed all the other ones.
You couldn't deny the quality was there.
So ultimately, you know, it's what are you selecting for?
And for my purposes on that,
what I wanted was I wanted to capture
that essence of that crispness.
And so to me, a lot of times
when you're going through populations,
it's just really what it is.
You're going through populations,
and you have to be able to keep the clonal copy
and keep it labeled correctly on a level great enough
to let you sift through a population.
And I think that's what screws most people up
because they don't have the holding capacity
to be able to take the clone, hold it up.
What they do is they regrow it.
And it's hard to regrow a full-term outdoor plant
because when you dig the damn thing up,
it's five and a half fucking feet tall indoor.
You have to dig up the root ball.
You got to bring it inside.
You got to try to relight it.
It's impossible to really put a tent over and outside
on an outdoor farm if you don't have grid power.
So I can light up a Jenny,
and I can power up something I'm trying to recover.
And I've dug up a lot of plants for a lot of people
and trucked them home, like a tree transplant,
where you dig it up, drag it on the burlap,
wrap the root ball, bring it home, set it into a media,
set it up under 24-hour light, and just pray.
And we've recovered a tremendous amount of stock
from farmers that didn't want to lose something.
But it's the last thing I want to do
is have to depend on my regrow ability
versus the fact that I just kept a copy
and I could pull it.
And it's always nice, like, you know.
Are those seeds or is that a cut?
It's a cut.
Oh, okay.
Straight selected cut.
So the guy who is currently the winner is in Australia.
Oh, that won't happen.
Yeah, so all right.
Australia's impossible to move to.
Nothing will survive the transfer
unless we put it into an Aga solution.
And then there's another whole pain in the ass,
because then he's got to take it from fucking solution
and then try to make the transfer to media himself.
And if you haven't done that, it sounds easier than it is.
You know, it's not impossible.
Are you willing to take on that challenge?
I would tell him to back up on it, man.
Let's figure out something else for homie.
All right, so.
I think it's just too far for any material.
Yes, so.
And it doesn't make sense to send stuff
that I think is gonna fail
or have him lose out on the deal,
you know what I mean?
Like, Australia's a fucking reach.
So our geographic delivery area is US and Canada
or just US?
Yeah, yeah, because you know, Canada's almost like two weeks.
Okay, so just US.
You're trying to.
Yeah, because if you're moving it to Canada,
it's like two weeks.
And the problem is that when you go in northern latitudes
on moving plants, it's almost impossible
to insulate them enough to where they don't fucking freeze.
So summertime, you can move plants north,
but man, you can't.
It's a tough one.
It's tough to have plants come from north to here
and plants out the other way,
because at some point,
it's gonna be in an unheated transfer.
And you're gonna see cellular disruption
in the plants when you get them.
You're gonna see all the cells exploded from freezing.
They're gonna melt it.
Even if you put them inside a sealed container.
I mean, I don't give a fuck.
If there's, at some point in time,
everything reaches ambient temperature.
And two weeks is a long time.
So, all right, so, all right.
Now we're Dave's not there.
Is that for Dave, who is in the US?
Is that 400?
So let's, cause.
Go Dave, go.
Come on, Dave.
It's working time, brother.
Riley got to a thousand.
Had they been seeds, we would have pulled in a thousand, but.
Well, I still got the seeds.
I still got those seeds from the auction
that the guy reneged on.
And remember that shit?
We did an auction and the dude reneged.
He come out like 4,500 on the pack, right?
And it fucking infuriated me
because I'm playing with this dude online.
He keeps hitting me up like,
dude, I'm ready to do this shit.
And I said, that dude's fucking.
Wait, was this for the Delano one?
No, yes.
Yeah, the guy who took forever to, yeah, anyway.
They play fucking Hopscotch with me.
And I'm just like, look, it's for a charity auction.
If you're going to play dick around,
this is not the fucking time to do it.
You know?
So I'm just like, a matter of fact about this,
if you're going to do something
that's legitimately meant for charity,
fucking do your goddamn job.
And so it pissed me off so bad.
I put the seeds down and I'm like,
I don't want to hear anybody else wants them.
And we'll hold them for another auction.
But I know that these things right here
are reasonably priced.
We won't get the bidding war.
What you'll get is you'll get,
just like we did when we,
what did I pass a couple of things up for?
One of our friends got his house burned down
in the fires, right?
And that was Dos Peros.
So Dos Peros, the seed company,
Brett gets his crib burned down.
We all jump on and do the auction.
And what I wanted to do then,
it was the same thing is be reasonable.
I'm not trying to tax you to death.
It's just that these are things
you can't get your hands on.
And the people could use the money.
So I would rather see both parties happy.
I'd rather see the person who needs the charity,
get the charity.
And the person who is getting the product,
be happy with the deal to where they didn't feel like
they got piped on the operation.
But both things are stunning.
They really are.
I mean, kill the grass.
I'd fucking grow up myself and hold it for smoke.
What do you think?
That's like the best test
I can say about something.
What are you smoking?
That.
You get a 12 on the seeds
and whatever they got for the clone.
What's that?
Sounds like Riley's down to do 12 on the seeds.
No, just the clone this time.
We're gonna, I'm gonna put them seeds down for a minute.
That pissed me off so bad playing that game with them seeds.
I wanted to choke this fucking guy.
Gotcha.
I'm serious.
You know what I'm saying?
I'm like, come on, man.
So the clone is available.
And all they got to do is we'll connect
and I'll get it all straight.
And the, the, the, the quality of the plant is beautiful.
They'll, they'll, they'll love what they're getting.
It's looking like Dave's not here for 500.
I don't see anybody talking.
It's a score pulling the,
pulling that lime turp out of the F2.
Go Dave, go.
He's gonna lean it super hard to that direction.
Cause what people don't realize too about the lime
is people are like, oh, I got some with lime turps.
It's like, yeah, it smells like train wreck.
It's not the same.
People don't understand that it actually smells
like fucking gin and tonic with a lime
just fucking squeezed right on top.
Like it's like,
I was gonna say.
It's lime peel.
It's not train wreck.
It's not fucking gin.
No, it's lime zest.
It's not like, oh, this is fucking limey.
It's like, no, it's, it's like a,
it's like a, like Thailand, you know, like a,
Yup.
It's crazy shit.
And Kev, that, the, the trip about that,
the reason why the chem winds up cutting through
in that cross so heavy is because the original limey strain
that's in it was already like, I don't know.
I grew a lot of them and it was maybe like a one in 50
or a one in a hundred throw.
And there was a lot of other stuff in those seeds
from my buddy Heath.
And I got this one really narrow butted one.
And it was like, oh, this one is the worst plant.
But when it dried, it was like, holy shit.
It smells like, it smells like a straight, straight line.
So I was like, damn, okay.
But I had crossed it with the old Northern Lights cross
from out in Woodman.
That was all chemical fuel that kind of passes
for like a chem chem D O G nasty floor cleaner,
gross janitor's closet thing, you know?
And so when I put those together, that was black lime.
And in there you would get some that were limey.
But what's trippy is like, people don't know.
People usually think like if something's dominant,
then if it's a dominant trait,
then that means it pops up all the time.
But if it had been from seeds originally
that had been done in open pollinations
and it had never been selected from that,
that dominant trait can stay really, really infrequent
in the population, right?
So what happened was as soon as I bred it,
all of a sudden it became like, oh, you get it all the time,
but not in every plant.
And it was usually really heavily mixed
with that fucking, that oil can Northern Lights shit.
So it was like this crazy weird eucalyptus gnarly chemical.
And then the lime was in there.
So what happens is every time you select for the lime,
the frequency just goes up, up, up really fast.
So what has happened now is people have actually
made crosses where it's like, mine was like,
okay, you got, I start off original black lime.
It's half that plant.
And that plant had only originally been one in whatever,
like not one and two, not one and three.
It was pretty rare in that mix.
But then all of a sudden it was like,
okay, I got a lot of them to come out.
And then I crossed it with the Hollywood peer cush
and the male I used was that type, but it was the mix type.
So it had the lime and it had the other stuff in it.
And then you have the cush.
So all of a sudden now it's like, okay, you're at a quarter
and originally it was infrequent,
but luckily it's dominant.
So you keep getting it, but you don't get all that.
But what happens is as soon as you keep selecting a plant
that has the lime and not all the chemically shit,
because that terpene, whatever group of genes
is carrying that kind of a terpene profile,
it's passing and like,
it gets more and more frequent every time.
So like if you take your F2 selection out of that,
that actually smells just like limes,
and you were to breed to that a couple of times,
you would have like, you would get lime way quicker
than you're gonna get it doing,
you know, with a lot of different shit.
It's like, it's not that common
in the black lime reserve seeds, but once you F2 it,
and now you've sent it in a direction a little bit.
And now once you cross to that one,
it's gonna keep getting further and further to that.
So like, to me to know that there's already a clone
that's straight lime and you actually caught it,
and you have it, like that's the shit,
you can breed to that and you're gonna get real lime terps,
which is true because you'll see people be like,
oh, whatever lime thing, everybody always says lime,
and I smell it and I go, it smells like train wreck.
To me that shit always smells like turpentine, piney,
it's like got like this, and then I'm like,
I smell how you could think it's lemon or lime,
but I'm like, it's in there, but that ain't really it.
Like what you're talking about is like a fucking lime peel
on your hands after you've squeezed the lime.
It tastes like that.
And to me, like, it's my very favorite weed
and I've smoked like everything.
And it's something about that terpene profile
is it's really, really, really happy and up.
And it doesn't just like,
it's not like you smoke it and you're all,
oh, fuck, okay, I'm super high.
Like even like cherry limeade,
you smoke it and you're just kind of, okay.
No, it's exhilarating.
It's like you smoke it and you could feel like shit
and think the whole world's fucked and everything sucks
and you hit it and you're like, shit, I'm cool, I feel good.
And that's why it's like my favorite weed
because actually not only is it potent,
but it's a feeling you want.
A lot of weed is potent, even like straight OG.
And I'm like, I got really fucked up, that's cool,
but it's not really the feeling I want.
So that one, I don't know,
I'm stoked that you found it and locked it down
because it's a cool thing.
And I've looked for it without the CDSR
because it's easier.
It's more frequent when it didn't have,
when it wasn't cut in half one more time.
So that's how I've bred towards it
with reading the line one and shit.
But I don't know, it sounds bomb.
It sounds like a good fucking.
It is a good sport, you know.
When the industry was collapsing a couple of years ago,
right, the fucking world's imploded around us.
It was that weed that I kept myself.
Unlike right now.
Yeah, things are right.
Is that, I mean, the world's still fucked up,
but the cannabis game is on.
And a lot of the operations
that were going through transitions during that time,
I was able to stabilize and get moving forward.
So I feel a lot different than I did then.
But I was unhappy.
And that lime is what I chose to smoke for myself
because it always made me feel good.
So you get a really good high, but you really do get high.
And it was just a beautiful experience.
Everybody I turn on to it, I'm like, look, smell it.
And they go, holy shit.
And then you allow them to smoke it.
And that's what the beauty of it is,
the flavor translates through.
I wanna say it's almost like menthol
because it's so cool in the mouth, but it's a lime.
So it's a beautiful plant, resistant, grows well,
just gorgeous turf profile, unique, real positive quality,
total winner.
If it trimmed itself, if it trimmed itself, it'd be better,
but otherwise, I'm all right.
So, and right now we're at, oh wow.
All right, 670, 660, and then immediately 675.
All right, do we have the like, oh damn, 700?
I mean, it's smart for people to bid it up
because right now people are,
as soon as that release sold out,
it was being resold for 1500 bucks.
And that's like over five years ago.
And when I let those seeds out,
I told people who got the original packs,
I was like, if you go through it and you don't find one,
that sounds like what I'm telling you these are like,
that you're like really like, okay,
this one I have to fucking keep it.
I was like, I'll give you more.
And then people, if they ran through them
and they didn't, whatever they didn't like about them,
I was like, cool, give them like 20, 30 more seeds.
But you know, you get the seeds,
you're gonna go through them.
And like the one that I had that won a contest was like,
it was like Chem D Funk Skunkiness
without as much of the bad muskiness
and then the really hardcore lime over the top of it.
And that was like the one,
and it had that like a little bit of that metallic
kind of bloodiness where they said nosebleed turps.
And I think they just meant like, it's really stinky,
but it really did kind of have that thing
where it was like, fuck, it's like a little bit,
this weird metallic funk to it that some of the limes have.
And that one was really dank,
but like my favorite ones that I'm really looking for
in those is like what Kev pulled out.
So I don't know, like if you can get the,
if you can already get the hunted cut for a rack,
like that's pretty fucking cool.
Yeah, good note, because it's like I said,
it's the F2 selection too.
So it's really extreme on that end of it.
And I'd love to see some people take it into
and go do some work with it
and lay in some different stuff to see what comes out
because it's just, that's one of the rarest flavors, man.
That's a rare one.
You really don't see, we see tons of citrus,
but you rarely ever see a crisp, true lime.
Yeah.
And once I got turned on to it through you, man,
I went on this quest to like, that's what I dig.
And it just is, man, of all the citruses,
that's by far my favorite.
It's a cool one.
And it's kind of, it goes beyond citrus
because it has the other weird stuff to it.
Mm-hmm, yeah, a weird complexity.
Yeah, and it's deep, you know, it's deep and earthy.
It's not like a thin little,
it's like it's really got some shit to it.
But Katsu, who's known for circulating that Katsu Bubba cut
he took his Bubba, or I think he took pre-98 Bubba,
I'm not sure, he took one of the Bubba cuts
and he crossed that with the Black Lime Reserve.
And if you check out the reviews that he has
that keep coming in as I'm following him,
everybody's like, holy shit, this is straight Bubba,
but it's just straight lime peel turps.
And I'm like, I know he must've got his hand
on a cut to reverse, cause they're fems,
that's similar to what your cut is.
Because it's like everything, he bred it with that.
And it's like, every person is like,
yep, I popped them and they're all lime.
And like, that's not, it's really, really rare.
My buddy told me about the lime in the 90s
and he was like, before we got popped,
we had these different things and one was the lime.
And I always was just like,
damn, that sounds like a bomb weed flavor, you know?
It just sounded good to me.
And then it popped out in some shit.
And like you can, like I said, like Black Lime Reserve,
when I put it out, I didn't tell everybody,
you're gonna get straight lime turps.
It's like, okay, you're gonna get like lemon lime and gas.
But what I really like out of all that shit is the lime.
So like to get the cut is like, you know,
you're ahead of the game when you have that.
And at this point, that release has been out
for whatever, seven years or something.
So, you know, it's not like it's a new thing.
It's like, it's been around.
The people who like that shit like it.
And I've had it since the original lime stuff that I had
was probably, I don't know,
we got the seeds originally in the late 90s,
but then combined the two things in the early 2000s.
And it was the shit, that original one,
even before the PK or any of that stuff was in it,
this dude who used to sell a lot of weed
for like AJ that has the diesel
and like chem dudes on the East Coast.
He used to buy their weed for eight to $12,000 a pound.
And he was like, I came out here
and I bought black lime pounds.
And they didn't, you know,
they hardly cost anything to him.
But he was like, that was the baddest shit
that I ever bought.
And I was like, fuck, to me, I didn't,
I was just like, it's just some shit.
I remember selling it to people and they were like,
yeah, it's too strong for us.
We don't want that.
Way back before like the gas strains were popular.
If people are more familiar with those,
then they would like them.
That's why he liked it.
Cause he's like, yeah, I like this really powerful shit.
But then what's cool is bringing it a little further
that some of that NL oil can high went away.
And then it turned into a feel good high.
Cause the original shit would like,
I remember taking a bomb hit of the straight NL oil can
without the lime in it and just fucking,
cause then it doesn't have any of the Burmese in it,
I guess is what the magic fucking ingredient is in it.
But I hit it and I remember like taking a fact,
cause I used to like take a fat bong hit
and like almost pass out on purpose.
And then like set down my ball and lay down on bed
before I went to sleep every night.
Cause it's just like, you know, fucking days over,
you know, and I, and I hit that.
And I would feel like I had been like hitting the head.
If you've ever like really been hit hard in the head
or you've ever like done a stupid fucking one and a half
flip into a pool and face slapped,
or just that feeling that you get where it's like
almost lights out and you can like almost taste it
and feel it in your ears and shit.
It was like so potent that it would do that shit.
And I didn't like it.
I was like, fuck, I'd smoke it in a joint
and it was so tasty, it'd be bomb.
But like, it was that fucking potent.
So like the forward breeding of it with the lime,
like what yours is, is really fucking cool
because it kind of evolved over time
to be something where you smoke it
and you actually, you get what you want
instead of going, ooh, I'm addicted to the flavor
and the sensation.
But then you're kind of like,
it's not what I want, you know?
It's almost like it was like,
just like drinking too much or something.
Totally.
But yeah, but the new one is,
is then the more modern work shit is really nice.
Yeah, really positive.
It's like, like I said, when the, when the,
when the industry was collapsing
and Hubbell Connie was just getting
the living shit kicked out of it,
it was so fucking depressing that I needed,
I needed, you know, it was just like,
man, you needed an escape.
And I happened to lay one of those out.
I tested it that first year.
And I was just like, man, I just felt good.
And I laughed and I said, I'm hoarding the whole plant.
And I just kept it at my spot.
So this way I had,
I knew that I would be able to smoke it enough,
long enough to make it through the hard times.
Yeah.
Because I knew that it was going to end eventually,
but having a couple of pounds of a really,
really happy, clear, clean, you know,
the light is brighter.
It just is a really good, good effects from the cannabis.
And so the mouth is phenomenal.
The nose is phenomenal and it's good looking,
but man, I love the way it made me feel inside.
And anyone I've smoked it with is just,
they just really like it.
Really positive.
Not so devastating that it'll kill you,
but you definitely know you're ripped.
And if you're a real smoker and you smoke frequently,
you'll dig it because you'll appreciate
the direction of the high.
And you can't get over that crispness in the mouth.
Just sharp.
Just like you're biting a lime, you know,
that really, really developed.
Not fermented.
But yeah, no, it's clear.
That's why I was asking, Mike,
if anybody had any tips on the mail that carries that
or helps carry that or how you find that
other than just going through the population,
because I've had some versions of the black lime
and all that jazz and man, I'm dying to taste that.
You know what I mean?
So y'all saved me enough, man.
Yeah, I mean, seed lines are trippy.
I had a funny experience where I was at,
my buddy had his daughter was having a birthday party
and there was this dude out there
and we were talking about strains and shit.
And he was like, yeah, you know,
we were talking blah, blah, blah.
And he goes, he goes, man, he goes,
he goes, yeah, I'm growing this one.
I'm growing this diesel or whatever.
And it's a pain in the butt.
He goes, fuck.
He goes, I grew that black lime reserve.
And I don't know how anybody could stay in business
growing that fucking bullshit.
And I was like, fuck, where did you get your cut?
You pop it from seed?
And he was like, no, I got it from so-and-so.
She popped a couple seeds and she got it.
And I'm like, well, if you grow seeds
and they're fucking killer,
you keep what's really fucking killer out of them.
But if you grow like four seeds
and you don't get one that's stellar,
you don't go, oh, I have the strain
and then just circulate that clone.
It's just not what you fucking do.
You know what I mean?
And that's why I tell people,
if you grow them and you don't get one that's really great,
then get at me because I grew six plants
and fucking was able to have one
that was like the highest testing fucking totes
probably in the whole Emerald Cup that year.
And the shit took second place.
And I only had six girls that year of it.
So it's like, you get them,
but it's not with seeds that you don't just always get.
You can take like a TK cross chem 91.
And if you grow 20,
you'll have one that might be better than both plants.
But if you grow two,
you're not necessarily gonna go,
okay, I got TK cross chem 91.
This is the shit I need to,
this I'm gonna circulate this to everyone.
Cause it's like, that's not,
it's just not how shit works.
Even people who breed dogs
that are the most champion lines ever.
They're not like every fucking dog in the litter is great.
They're like, no, this litter is good.
The best dog in it is the one I'm gonna breed.
And so like circulating shit like that,
that's how you're supposed to do it.
And that's, what's cool is Kev takes the shit.
He'll put it in a greenhouse,
hose that shit down literally with a garden hose
while it's flowering,
just so that he can like imitate something
like we're talking about that Odie has up there
and fucking in the Pacific Northwest.
And so like this shit is selected,
when you get those ones like that.
Did we close this one at 840 or what?
Yup.
Cool.
Beautiful.
Damn.
Sweet.
Line works.
Yeah, and before I went to go pee.
Was he out of?
Line works.
What's in the continental United States, where are you?
And then the other one you're doing is what?
The GMO cherry pie.
Holy shit, man.
Flavors combined.
That's the shit right there.
Oh, it's nice, man.
Nicknamed it Bicket OG.
And I think Bicket was one of like the original,
what was the name of that Southern Dope Growing Group?
There was a whole crew of Southern Dope Growers.
They all caught time and shit.
But Bicket was one of their last names.
And I think so he named it after Bicket as like a tribute,
but it was an accidental population.
The room got hot and the cherry pie fucking went into sex,
pollinated the GMO.
He thought it was interesting.
So he went through a population of seeds.
Most of them went intersex,
bunch of them were fucking mutants.
And this one popped out.
And it's really nice.
It's a really nice GMO hybrid.
Cause you know it's GMO,
but the cherry pie just added a little bit more complexity
and sharpness to it.
And same thing, really resistant, no issues.
I did a medical,
I did my one, not the medical,
but my six legal up at my farm.
So my yard, I do one thing and on the farm,
I have an ability to do another
because there are two different APNs,
two different property numbers.
So you can run both properties.
And so I did six of them on the farm.
So I'd have plenty of it.
And then I did one at my house and I lose sun at my house
around first week of October.
So that what it does,
it kind of lets me see how plants finish.
If they're not getting the full charge of sun.
So it lets me find things that can work for people
who wanna do some of these longer flowering varieties,
but their light needs are a little less
as it goes through the cycle.
And it finished up beautifully too.
Different coloration remained a little more pale.
The stuff that got the, you know,
my farm is different cause it's got such killer exposure.
So those became like heavier, muskier, deeper,
but the ones that didn't get like really killer sun
for the end of the season,
just really sharp and clean, man.
It was good.
I was really, really impressed.
I'm impressed enough to where I held a bunch of it for smoke
and I think that it's something that an individual
would love to get their hands on.
Good growability, explodes roots really well, you know,
I'm resistant.
I didn't see any issues on it.
And if you want to test plants to find out
what was fucking fragile, this was a good year to do it.
Because, you know, we were getting zero sun
for a couple of weeks cause of the fires.
You were getting all kinds of particulate deposition.
So if you could finish herb and not have any rot
or any kind of problems, it said a lot for the plant.
And so I would love to run it again next year.
I know I'll run it again next year.
Two of my favorite flavors, man.
I love that cherry pie, man.
It's like, no matter what you can,
when you're smoking it, it's like, holy shit.
That's cherry pie, you know what I mean?
It's absolutely delicious.
Yeah, it's nice.
And the thing with cherry pie is it comes in early.
Yeah.
It comes in earlier.
So like third week of September, you know,
it's really peaking out at the end
as long as you get it full sun.
And so it didn't add to the GMO
in terms of flowering time,
it helped bring it down a little bit.
And I haven't run it indoor,
so I don't know what it does inside,
but the people who've run it indoor, they love it.
And so for me, my only experience is, you know,
full term outdoor and in different locations.
And like I said, you know,
the one that I tested at my house,
where I use my backyard at my house to test stuff,
just because it has that weird, you know,
the tree line, the light,
the sun drops below the tree line.
And what I get is I get filtered light.
And so I always try to see how things work there
because so many people don't really have killer full sun.
And so for the average individual, you know,
any of these longer flower and plants,
if your climate doesn't freeze, you can run.
It's just, will they finish?
And so something that needs sun to the very end,
you have to make sure you let people know
this shit will not tighten up, but this one did.
It tightened up beautiful.
The visual was great.
Smoke ability was killer.
And the GMO is a nice platform to work off of.
If you like a really thick musky, earthy, bitey plant,
it's great.
For some people, I think it's too strong.
You know, like that's what I've noticed
is that GMO and GMO hybrids,
for some individuals, it's a little too powerful.
But if you like good, strong, knock down, drag out,
whip that ass weed, it's the right one.
And the hybridization of it adds a little bit
of the uniqueness to it, which makes it cool.
And I've run the GMO for years.
I think I got it off of like Skunkmasterflex's crew.
Years ago, they came to me to get some plants
and I hooked them up with some stock they wanted
and I didn't want anything back.
I was just like, no, it's all good.
I said, you guys do your thing.
And they came back the next day and said,
look, you need this plant right here.
Like, just trust us, you need this plant.
And it was the GMO cut.
And I'm glad they gave it to me because it was a beauty.
You know, and hybridizing it is nice.
I've seen a lot of nice hybrids,
but the cherry pie brought just a really cool little tone
to the mouth.
And so you got the thickness and the power and the depth,
but you got like a little sharper edge to it.
And it just adds to the experience.
All right, so I think that one went to Chris Jennings, right?
Killer.
And all right, let me, Chris Jennings,
let me give you our link.
And who wants to, anyone want to throw something up next?
Drop my phone, that's too good of a deal, man.
That's awesome, great.
Hey, dude, give me, hey, have Pete send me your email.
All right, right on.
Yeah, because I never, I get bombarded with so much shit
from so many different social media directions.
I lose everybody fucking right now.
I can't remember where you contacted me from.
No, I got you.
So if I actually know you, I'm like, look,
let me get my, let me get you my email.
And then, and then this way, I mean, you can chop it up.
Hell yeah, hell yeah, for sure, for sure, love it.
I am connecting you guys right now.
Yep, and the same thing, Pete, just send,
just drop me the emails for the guys and I'll hit them up
and we'll get everything straightened out.
Yes, that will be Trevor who's standing by right now
in the email inbox.
Thank you, Trevor.
So Tyler or Jackson, do you guys want to throw something up?
I can pull one up.
Grabbed a couple when I came in.
So I got one that hasn't been, it hasn't been tried out
because they were just made in the summertime.
But it was a cool mail that I had.
So I had a pack of sour strawberry
that I bought from Bob one time
when he was at one of the shows.
I was talking to him about some shit
and he was super cool.
And I knew that there was some,
he had some cool stuff I had always seen pictures of his
and in old books and shit,
just like big, crazy, gnarly, broad leaf, fat butted stuff.
And I was like, it seems like he's got
some of the kind of older, different stuff.
So I got like a sour bubble from him
and maybe sour grapes or something.
I don't think it's called sour grapes.
It's like, I don't know, grape bubble
or something like that.
And then I got this sour strawberry from him
and somebody was like,
somebody was like, oh, I ran that sour strawberry
and I found some, my buddy ran it
and he found some crazy, crazy turps in it.
And I was like, oh, trippy, okay.
So I planted it and they were pretty cool.
And I just kind of butted them in six inches, just little.
Cause I knew I could get more of the seeds from bog.
And I was like, I'll just see what they are
before I go doing anything with it.
And I had them all in trays, six inches
in the little, in the white plastic trays.
So there's like eight in a tray.
And I had some girls and I had some boys.
And then I like, I smelled the girls starting to bud
and I was doing all this different stuff.
And I was like, fuck, okay.
I gotta keep my focus here.
And so I can't just go chasing everything.
So I killed the males of it.
And I was like, I'll just finish them out
and see if I like how they smoke.
And if they, on average, they smell good,
I'll go get a couple more packs
or a few more packs from bog.
Cause he has good shit and nice seeds and affordable.
And he's accessible and he has the same shit all the time.
So I was like, all right, I'll just see.
So I'm doing all this stuff
and I'm shuffling them all around.
And I have all these different plants
and there's these ones in the bushes over here
and these ones in the bushes over there.
And I'm like, you know, just doing them.
And I'm like, all right, well, I'm not really gonna do,
I'm not really gonna make anything over in this area.
So I'll just kind of leave these here
and I'll get a couple of joints to try out
off of each plant, you know?
And so it turns out though,
that there was a little male was in one of the pots
and I just couldn't, I just had like gone through too quick,
fucked up and done some rookie shit and left a male.
And it only had a flower on top,
like just a little piece, you know?
And a couple of balls opened and I was like, okay,
well, that's all there is back here.
So if I find a couple of stray seeds, I know what they are.
And I was like, I'll never grow them or nothing.
I'm just gonna, I'll take them and put them in.
And then they finished and I was like, damn,
they're pretty nice.
And they were really, really resonance and I liked them.
And they were kind of like a fruity, gnarly,
like Hindu Bubba type thing.
So I was like, all right, this is a cool one.
Really broad leaf.
So I was like, all right, we'll see what they are.
And here's what they do.
So they wound up crossed with a bunch of stuff
and I've never crossed, I've never grown most of them.
My buddy gave me this cool Mazari and some other stuff.
And I wound up with like little bags with like five seeds,
three seeds or whatever, all labeled as like, okay,
this had to come from that.
So I had back there at the same time,
this one that my buddies in the Bay
were calling the knowledge,
which was I had taken the Cherry West
and I had put it on the animal cookies.
And then I had put that back on,
I had put that back on the animal cookies again.
And so they grew some of those out and they were like,
oh, this shit, this is the shit.
And I'm like, okay, I'm gonna try some of them myself.
Cause I got back some of the indoor and saw the pictures
and it looked like it had really been some bomb stuff
or animal cookies cross.
So I grew those out and they wound up being like
really killer.
I don't know if people have seen them on that I posted.
It's like as resinous kind of as you can imagine weed being
and it likes to drop its resin.
It's nice.
It has like a cookie smell,
but then it has like this peanut butter and jelly smell,
which usually peanut butter I don't like,
but it's like a good,
it's like this peanut butter and jelly pastry smell
that it has.
And then some of them have like a real,
like a sharp garlic smell to them.
And those, that's like the two basic types.
So I ended up making some F2s
and I used a really nice resinous male
that I got lucky and found.
It was gorgeous.
It's way back on my feed somewhere.
There's a picture of it, but like really resinous,
not a intersex male that's faking the resin.
Cause it's part girl.
It was just really, really produced a lot of resin
and had a nice color to it.
And so I ended up making F2s with that.
And then I popped some of them.
And I, for the last couple of years,
I've grown some of them and they were really nice.
So this year, when I grew them the first time,
I ended up crossing those with grape soda skunk.
They came out nice.
Those were hella killers.
Pictures of those on my feed.
And those were given away as freebies.
But so I took the male,
I took two different males out of that cross this year.
And I put them on, I took like the tallest male
and I put it on an animal cookies clone.
And I took the short, the shorter male that I liked.
There was a, there's a lot,
mostly they're short little squat plants,
but occasionally you get these taller ones
that are almost the same weed,
but they grow a little bit faster.
And they're, they're not quite as crazy
broadleaf indica look,
but they get still get the nice hard buds
with the same, like really heavy resin,
really similar smells, but they just grow a little faster.
So these ones I have, they haven't been grown out yet.
They're untested, but I'll put up a pack of them.
Like, like let's do like, I don't know, 15 seeds of them.
And they are animal clone crossed with animal clone
crossed with animal clone crossed with cherry West
crossed with sour strawberry.
So that's like starting with what the most recent thing was
sour strawberry being like the thing that was bred to them.
So it was like, cherry West is like a crazy big long lineage,
but people have seen a lot of that on the page.
It's really purple and pretty.
And the cherry West as a girl has,
yeah, people can bid on those.
The cherry West as a girl that I kept
has some of like the old candelabra smell,
which is like has some terpeneline in it,
which makes it like really a really trippy smell because I have so much other
shit. It's not just like a thin washed out terpeneline smell.
It's real deep and sharp and heavy,
but these ones didn't have any of that. The male that I used,
which was the brother of that clone, the cherry West 10,
it didn't carry any of that. That was really rare in those originally.
So everything that comes through is more like a black cherry,
heavy, more fruity cookies type thing in these,
in this cross, once it's mixed with the animal. And then it's like,
this is like, you know, I mean, it's, it's, it's,
it's more than three quarter animal and then it has sour strawberry in the mix.
So it's a, it's a cool one. And I,
like I said, I haven't grown these.
I wouldn't try to grow these indoors unless you're going to try to maybe hope
you get one female that might be good. And it could be because of the,
the sour strawberry brought a lot of stability to the cross.
It's actually a nice, a fairly stable cookies cross for an animal cross,
but outdoors really solid in a depth, same as indoor.
I don't know really what, what to say about it,
but I would predict that outdoor would be nice,
but because it's an animal cookies cross,
I wouldn't be surprised if out of 10 girls,
you still had a few that could get some balls on them.
So I would grow them, clone the best one.
The best one's going to be like really,
really gnarly dark frosted up animal cookies and the animal cookies.
I got it when unknown profit,
um,
frost boss and a couple other people got it.
Like the one I had was the original original,
like it has the most solid provenance after a while.
What people don't know is most of what everybody has.
That's animal cookies now is forum or something similar to a forum cut.
They all got mixed up in the bay and then everybody wound up with the wrong one,
but I only ever had the one cut. So like, uh, there, there are super cool one.
Um, but um, you know, I don't know.
It's a cool, this is cool for an animal West thing for sure.
It looks like it's at three 50.
Yeah. We got Chris Jennings currently with a hybrid.
Tyler, you want to sell that some more?
I can't do any better.
Three 50 is good. We can get, we can close it and go on to a,
and go on to our next thing. You know, if it's slow,
I mean, if, if me, I mean, if, if Jackson's says that it's good,
I mean, shit, that's enough. That's enough.
Yeah, I know. It's good. It's good.
But the funny thing is, is out of these, like the, the, you know,
the cookies you're going to get, I don't know if people have seen the, uh,
the pictures of the animal West sour strawberry, but it's like,
you know, it's, it's really,
really pretty and it's really resinous and it has real resin. It's not like,
it's not like frosty, uh, frosty,
long leg resin. It's like covered caked in resin.
And it's just sheets of heads, you know, like under a, under a loop,
it just looks like a coating of big heads. It's really nice.
And then back on the animal, it's a cool one to go on the animal.
And in the other cross, um,
there isn't many of the weird little mutants you get in the cookies thing.
So there should be, there should be pretty, pretty nice plants. Um, but you know,
they haven't been grown. So if it goes for three 5370 now, that's good.
I think that's a good, you know, if it doesn't go higher,
those are some chubby cheeks.
Shouldn't he be in bed? Wait, hold on.
No. That's life though. That's life. Yeah.
He's he'll be, he'll be a bed soon enough.
Can't tell him my youngest is probably so clutch.
My, my youngest is probably so clutch to my, my wife right now. You know,
they go to bed when all the lights go out.
Yeah.
Yeah. My two year old keeps staying up later and later. Uh,
we got through where it's the $5 increments.
You guys, you started arguing over the iPad and stuff, you know, man,
it's all, it's all downhill after that.
Is Trent giving me a hard time?
Cascadian did I undermine you with the countdown?
I thought we were counting down and then people started sniping.
Am I wrong that we're in snipe time?
Very nice. All right. You know, you wait till the last second, you know,
you can, you're the guy, you know,
so should we call it with Chris Jennings?
Yeah.
Yes. Okay. Chris Jennings, come on down.
And uh, all right, let me throw
where you go to. What? Oh shit.
That's not what I wanted to do. So make your donation here.
Tyler, you want to throw something else up?
I got, I got stuff I can, I'd love to help out, you know? I mean,
it's charity, man. I'll get, I'll get it. I'll get it out. I'll get it to you.
Um, do we want to do, so we did some bacon grease.
We did some Pam 15 BX. We did, um,
a little skunk water pandemic stuff. So let's, uh, what about,
is there any, is there any CBD people in the house?
Does anybody want to do any like CBD, you know, strange? Probably not.
I'll get a big boo or something, but we got lots of cool, uh, got lots of,
let, let, let's do a CB. Let's do a high CBD. Yeah.
You know, two to ones, weird stuff like that. Um,
I have a cool one. It's an ACBC auto to, uh, to Pam Demick,
a resin male, which is cool. So you've got like a killer,
a plant. So that ACBC auto two is, is one plant. Um,
overall, you know, you had the ACBC, it was crossed to an auto two selection.
Then we had the ACBC auto to, uh, that plant was, uh,
there's probably some pictures of it on my feed somewhere. Um,
I posted a couple, it was a really nice greasy, uh,
sativa type hemp structure plant,
but it has awesome resin content. I mean, it had really killer resin.
I was very impressed with, with the, with the look and the stature.
I was,
I was bummed out because it was one of the longest flowering of all of the,
of the crops, you know, so it took a long time to show it took a long time to
grow. Uh, but in the end it was pretty darn good. I had it tested, um,
medicine, you know, uh, tested out that 18% CBD, uh,
some other trace, uh, cannabinoids.
It was pretty much just CBD dominant for the most part. Um,
and then I took the clones, you know, cause we grew it up, took some clones,
took some, some copies, figured out what it was looking for some medicine.
And, uh, I took a, one of the clones and I,
and I bred it with the pandemic resin mill, uh,
that I had cause I was testing out that male. It hit a few different things.
I wanted to see what it passed, what it did, uh, if it was any good, uh,
all the above. And that was one of the plants that I hit.
I always like to make some one-to-ones. I always like to make some, uh,
multi cannabinoid, uh, plants just for good, good old fashioned medicine.
You never know what kind of comes out. So, um,
I'll throw up a pack of 20 beans of the ACDC auto to cross to the
pandemic. Uh, you can start it at it's medicine. I mean,
you can start at 50 bucks if you want. And that's killer stuff. I mean,
if people are looking for stuff to make into tinctures for, uh, you know,
like in, you know, capsules or RSOs or all that stuff,
it's great for that. Uh, terpene profile on the, uh,
on mama, the ACDC auto too, was like,
it was really nasty. It was kind of, it was, it was cat piss and kinda,
um, cleaner. It was very unpleasant, uh,
when it was growing, but when it cured out, it cured out into this, kind of this,
this, this, this really cleaner. It's the best thing I can say. It's like,
it's not like a pledge or a citrus or anything like this.
It's like some sort of an artificial, like chemical, uh,
kind of a cleaner type smell. It's not gas. Um, it's very,
it was very unpleasant when I was growing, but the resin was awesome.
I was like, man, this is a really unique kind of resin, uh, terpene profile,
um, with killer resin. And you know, I was playing around with it. Um,
so.
And just quickly an auto crossed with regular.
ACDC auto too.
And that's crossed to a pandemic resin mill and pandemic is triangle,
KUSH chem 91 and Pam.
So the offspring of that is going to be really wild and you're going to get a
lot of mixed ratios cannabinoid wise. So if somebody's looking for some,
some medicine, you know, type type stuff,
it's got some infused CBD in there, some one-to-ones.
This is going to give you some good, um, you know,
good all around type medicine, you know, uh, you'll.
Why are you, are you,
are you going to get auto tendencies or regular tendencies or a mix of the two?
No, no, no. Auto two is a hemp plant. That is a CBD.
It's one of the most popular like hemp cultivars.
I said, so it's not auto flower at all. Ah,
that was the O it's O T T O.
Not a UTO. Okay.
I think that was a super helpful clarification.
Exactly. That's a question. Good. Um,
auto two is a hemp cultivar. It's a really popular,
good yielder. Uh, low it's,
it's one of those guaranteed low testers below the federal level.
Um, it's got high CBD content and it's one of the production type hemp plants.
Uh, that was crossed to the ACDC clone. Um, you know, that,
the classic ACDC clone and then, uh,
the offspring of that was what I was working with.
So, um, it's that offspring tested out at about 18% CBD
with some trace gaminoids, uh, killer,
kind of unusual terpene profile. Uh,
but I crossed it to that classic pandemic stuff. So that's gonna, you know,
sweetener up a little bit on the smokeable side,
but you're still going to get those one-to-ones. So your grandma, your grandpa,
uh, people who are looking for like pain medicine, tinctures, things like that.
Um, very, very cool.
And this was 20 seeds, right?
20 seeds, good medicine. You know what I mean?
An auto OCTO not to be confused with auto flower.
And it's gonna be, you know, it's gonna be, excuse me.
It's gonna be a mid to later flowering plant. So indoors would be ideal.
I mean, granted it's medicine. So if you're really going to take the time,
you should probably grow it inside anyway,
keep it really nice and sharp and clean unless you're doing a real regenerative
thing. But because it flowers so long, I would recommend growing it inside. Um,
you know, that way you have more control. You didn't have any issues,
especially where you were. Nobody has great weather.
Like I do most of the time you can't finish stuff off. You know,
we still haven't had very much of a, you know,
more than a wink or two of rain down here.
Northern cows getting some getting some, they're getting some everywhere else.
We're still, we're still dry. Everything's still Brown. So, um,
and you know, there's no snow, so I'm lucky.
Not everybody's going to be lucky. So I would throw this one inside,
but it's good medicine. Like I said, it's a, it's a mixed ratio plant.
I like to put those out.
And Kevin, you're, you're, you were showing off the progeny.
You got a ways to go to catch up to Justin Calvino though.
I'm not competing there.
Pedro, my boy,
Pedro compete there and my boy Oscar compete there.
This is the Sully's can compete with anybody when it comes to reproduction.
Justin has eight, three. Justin has eight kids. He is prolific.
I want to say my boy Oscar's got 11.
That's insane.
For real. It's fucking mind bending, man.
Sometimes you just fertile.
And how many moms were required to get to 11?
27.
I want to say probably 10.
I got three. I can't imagine 11.
No, I mean, no, three is cool. My son's
three with one mom though. Right?
Yeah. But that is still still 11. That's insane. You know, that's great.
That's a big deal.
Yeah. And, and, and he's, and he got beautiful kids too, you know, all,
all healthy, good, sharp kids. And yeah, no, it's a gift, man.
It's a gift. And, but I just send you guys a message. I get to get going.
I get to go do the bed thing, man. Thanks for letting me participate.
Sorry for the hit and run and apologize for being late.
I didn't expect that corporate meeting.
You go so low.
Well, now we, we, we could probably wrap it and uh, yes,
every sperm is sacred.
And uh, all right, well, we'll let Kevin go and then we can,
we're, we're on the home stretch. If, if anyone wants to throw something up,
if not, we can call it. Uh, I could definitely go to bed right now.
So you kept
so Jackson and Tyler between the two of you, if one of you wants to throw it,
oh, sorry.
So if one of you wants to throw something up and then we'll wrap it and then,
um, who won the last one?
Yeah. Anybody, anybody, anybody bid on the medicine? No.
Yeah. That was Dan, Dan, Danny Bowman, right? Cool.
Danny, I'll hook you up, man. I'll hook you up with some good stuff.
Send me a message and you know, Peter, I'll link us up to, but hook you up.
So
yeah.
And then if one of you wants to go one last time, otherwise
we could all be in bed within the next 10 minutes.
That would be the quickest one so far. Um, man,
I don't have anything out sitting really. Um,
let's see. Somebody asked about animal West's earlier.
Um, I could do,
I could do an animal cross animal West at the animal West F three
male back on the animal again. Um,
those would probably be bomb. Same deal with the other one. It's an animal cross.
Everybody who's who's South, the animal says it's got, it's got a,
you know, it's got some fucking intersex tendencies. It's a cookies,
but, um, it's bomb. I mean,
I finally grew the OGKB and I was like curious why everyone says it's so
different. And honestly,
it seemed a lot like the old animal clone that I was given. It's not,
of course the animal clone outgrows it by a rate of fucking 300% or something.
But, um,
the smell is really similar and stuff pops out of the crosses. That's,
that's really close to the OGKB. Um, it's bomb.
I mean a lot of the animal I've seen is definitely not animal.
So they're, they're probably pretty cool.
And what'll happen in that first back cross,
cause I bred the animal West to not have the mutants anymore on that side.
Theoretically it shouldn't have to be able to have two copies of it really
available for the plants to use.
So in the first back cross taking the inbred F3 that doesn't have the little
short OGKB mutants back crossing it,
it should actually be able to have, um,
at least mostly plants that don't do the little recessive trip cause it doesn't
really have it to double up. I haven't checked them yet,
but that's what I would say. Cause they don't pop out in the, um,
they don't pop out in the F3 anymore. So they're probably cool.
They're worth a go. I have them.
That's another thing that I have sitting right here. So I know I,
I know I can put those up. I'll put up, um, I'll put up 20 of those.
All right. Let the bidding begin.
And Chris Channings is stepping in with $200.
There you go. Yeah. I want to grow those too, man.
That's that's those would be good.
That'd be cool. There's stuff to hunt through. I mean,
I wouldn't want to plant the garden of them. Um,
just because like I said, they're cookies. Like when I did,
I did root beer cookies. Um,
I did animal crossed with a root beer back cross male years ago and people found
really bomb stuff out of them.
But like Kev's buddy grew a bunch of them and one of his big ass plants and big
pots hermed on him. And uh, cause I told him, I'm like, yeah,
they might be shaky, but he's like, fuck it. I don't care.
And then he had to cut down like a fucking 12 foot plant. He was like,
but he knew, you know, it's just, you gotta know, like when you grow those,
you're looking for a clone and then you can breed them again and breed them
again. And after a while you'd have it or you just grow the fucking clone,
you know, but as just,
as just a public service announcement for anybody,
even if you're getting a clone, like even if you're like, Oh my boy,
has her call. I'm going to throw in a whole garden to her.
Call like don't throw in a whole garden to something you've never fucking grown.
Like it's just not, I mean,
I've done it before I did it with her call one year and we got a really bad rain
year that year. And like I had to cut all of it apart and dry it on screens,
which is how I handle shit because it was all going to mold as soon as it got
rained on and was like, Oh, her call, there's the her call craze girl.
Her colon was like, yeah, all that shit's going to fucking rock.
And had I grown three plants of it once in five gallon pots, I would've been like,
Oh, don't plant a whole garden of that. Like, you know,
that would be good to put in a debt or grow it indoor or grow it in a
greenhouse. But as soon as it got rained on, it was fucking trouble, you know?
So anyway, like you,
you should know how to grow something before you throw in your whole fucking
garden of it. Cause then you'll be like, you know,
I almost ruined my whole fucking shit. And it was a,
it would've been real easy to just know what, um, what it was.
But it was like, okay, it's hot. I can get the clone. So I did it.
And then it was almost really, really terrible.
It was still terrible because they broke really bad the way I had them supported.
And then they got really,
they were all like right on the edge of wanting to mold. I could tell.
So I had to pop apart every Cola, put them on screens, you know?
So you better off to grow something, you know,
that you know how to fucking grow.
All I would have had to do really was probably know that they're not as sturdy
as they seem and maybe not top them as many times.
Cause they have such huge antlers of giant fucking buds on them.
I thought it was kind of small budding and I needed to make more bud sites.
And you know, it was like after growing them, I was like, no,
that if you're going to do that, you better have straight trellis on them.
And back in those days, people didn't trellis their rows.
Some people smarter than me probably did, but I didn't fucking know.
I just thought, Oh,
you just stake them up and make sure they're not tipping and then we got rain for
a few days and it was like fucking Armageddon out there.
So same deal with these, you know, if you get them, grow them,
find that clone, grow that clone and then fucking put it into production.
You know?
What was the male like? What was the male like that you use for this one?
The male on this was like a real, a real like,
the animal West itself is really bred to be like a really,
really sturdy stout, not like super slow growing.
They actually grow pretty nice. Um,
like a little bit less than average.
If you're used to growing like OG dominant crosses,
they're not fast and stretchy like that.
They don't stretch a whole lot when they bud like the male buds are like super
dense. Um,
like it's not one of those ones where there's like balls hanging everywhere.
It's like boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, straight up, you know,
and a real, real fucking tight formation, really hard. Um,
and uh, nice, like what I call sweet cook smell,
which is like kind of what, what,
what gelato is where it's like, it smells like cookies,
but it has this kind of fruit loopy thing in it and you could smell it on that.
There's like this deep thing that real good cookie smells like.
And then there's this other like, Oh, like overlaying thing.
And that's in the animal West. That's the ones I really liked.
They're kind of like a, a really stinky gelato,
but with still more of the animal cookies, um, there.
And uh, so that's like the male that I selected out of a bunch. And then, um,
you know, just nice, sturdy, uh,
not super branchy. So just like a little kind of narrow Christmas tree shape,
you know,
but I've noticed that males tend to not swing branches quite as wide as females.
But even the females, they're not like,
they don't grow like the candelabra bush shape,
the all the animal West, they grow like the tall Christmas tree shape.
If you don't top them. And, um, there's pictures on my feed,
but the animal West people have always really wanted to get it. Uh,
everybody's kind of like, Oh, everybody breeds cookies. Don't breed with cookies.
I'm like, well, fuck.
I started breeding with it when nobody had ever even heard of it.
And the first year I grew animal cookies or the second year I grew animal
cookies,
weed was like starting to tank and it wasn't worth that much.
And it was worth like almost double what everything else was worth.
So I was like, it seems cool, like cool, cool weed to me. It wasn't even,
it wasn't even at that point that valuable on height.
It was people who didn't know what it was, could look at it and be like,
I'll give you this for this. Cause they just knew like, it's so resinous.
The pounds were like half as big. Like people would look at the pounds and go,
that's a half, right? And you're like, no, it's,
it's just so much resin on the weed, you know, on the real animal.
It was really dank. Um, so I tried to kind of,
I tried to kind of lock that down. Like the original animal West,
I called the Scotty and then I did never do anything with it. And, um,
my, my buddy was like, Oh, I have one.
I already have something called that. And I was like, well, I'm not,
I'm going to look at probably still for years before I do anything with it.
So if you want to use the name, use it.
And then cookies wound up thinking the same thing. Like, yeah, I mean,
how many kinds of cookies are there? Right. But I called it that.
Cause it was like, I was like, well, what's the hardest cookie there is.
What's a rock hard cookie. It's like, Oh, the Scotty, you know? So, um,
anyway, that's the story behind it. It's the little,
little rundown super pretty though. It's cool.
So I believe we have Chris Jennings at three 50 as the clocks drug
zero big John question, whether it was right after the clock strikes zero,
but it's okay.
Sweet.
Unless I'm missing something further down in the chat.
Are we okay with giving it to Chris?
Like a split second after the clock hit zero?
I mean, I don't know. How's the, what's the deal. Give the, whoever bid under,
I'm give them a chance. Like that's what I do. It's if somebody sneaks in like
that, it's like, all right, well, you got to give them a chance to,
to speak for it. I don't know who bid before Chris,
but whoever bid before Chris, if you want to, um, if you want to up it,
you know, then you guys can have a little, a little last minute war, you know,
that way.
Dustin, is this true?
Um, I mean, it's really, really resonance. Yeah.
Like they're really resonance plants. They're nice. And some of them are a little,
you know, I mean, but I mean, too, this is back on the animal. So this is a,
this is a, it's not a technically a back cross,
but it is something that's half animal put back on.
It's just, it's been bred forward. So it's actually, in my opinion,
an improvement on a regular, um,
on a regular back cross because it's,
it's had an improvement and worked in a direction and then it's put back on the
original parent again. So you'll actually, like I said,
you'll be likely to have chopped out that copy,
that available copy of that mutant where they call it mutant.
I just think it's a type, but what they call like that mutant type,
like the OGKB is that weird little Urkel thing that pops out of Urkel. Um,
it's really likely, you know, that, that when you grow these, it'll be like, Oh,
wow, you got an animal cross that is, um,
three quarter animal and there's no mutants and ruts,
which normally you're going to get a good solid quarter out of that.
Cause it's a recessive thing. So I think it should be, you know,
you have to have two copies of that to make it pop out.
So I think you probably won't get that popping out, which is neat.
Cause usually it's like, all right, you're going to grow them.
Now a quarter of them are mutants and then a quarter of them are unstable.
And then now you're left with half of what you started with. It's like these,
you should be able to get them.
You don't have that quarter cut out with mutants.
Now you just have the quarter that are unstable if that's the case.
But that might be cut out too. Cause the F3 is actually pretty solid now.
Um, surprisingly enough,
I bred it to F4 and ran those out from a different selection out of a different
girl and they were, they had become less stable going to F4.
So I took it back to F3 and stress those really hard. And, um,
and the F3 was actually, I had actually taken a wrong turn to F4.
So I remade the F4s with girls that were stressed way harder.
So I could eliminate some of them. Um, and uh,
so the F4s will probably be cool too, but this is back on that animal clone.
Yeah. I've done that same thing. You have to re you have to re,
you have to go back, you know,
cause the third or the second or whatever generation was great.
And then the next generation sucks or has a problem. You're like, fuck,
that male's wrong.
You got to make a wrong turn. You don't want to just keep leaning on it.
You gotta go back.
It's like, no, you fucked up. You need to go back and circle back, you know?
And the other ones are really killer outside.
It was just that when they were put in a gap or put indoor,
they were more unstable. Um, but skunk tech got a killer cut out of the, um,
out of the F4s. It was just when I ran them in my depth, I was like, nope,
they all, and they all had like one single male flower on the whole
plant. And I was like, I just know this isn't how I want when I'm looking at the
F3s and they don't.
And there's only a couple of plants out of a big pop habit.
And I'm looking at these other ones and it's most of them have one.
I was just like, no, kill that male. You know, I just, I honestly,
I fucking chopped them all down cause they can't be around just in case they
decide to get a second nut somewhere after I'd already noticed one, you know,
but had I been growing them for flower,
I could have just cut off the fucking one that and they would all have been fine.
But it was all in my, my whole breeding area.
You can't have any fucking male flowers that aren't known. Cause you'll wind up,
people will be like, yeah, I don't know.
I planted such and such fucking cush and now all of a sudden there's a fucking
Herm cookie plant in that. What's that? And that's what a lot of people,
you know, a lot of people seem to like that.
Cause yeah, hard to look at every plant. But me, I'm like, fuck,
breaking my back to check in every fucking thing. And you find one like that.
You're like, okay, I can't take that much time to do it. Yeah.
Fucking kill them all.
So I'm out there chopping down fucking chest high fucking cookies plants that
grow perfect, perfect for growing flower. But you know, you're like, Oh,
you're going to get three seeds. Who fucking cares?
So you're going to have fine pounds.
But if you're breeding those three seeds wind up being in someone's shit,
they pick that as the male and they're like, I don't know. It's,
there's this stuff in here that doesn't seem right. You know?
So you have to fucking just take the loss, you know?
So you got to fucking kill them.
But outside I grew the same fucking seeds outside and they're flawless.
They're fucking gorgeous. So I was like, ah man,
cause I had thought I'll just plant a whole bunch more of these.
I'll be able to breed them all.
I'll make some really nice selections and I'll have at fives that are fucking
hell solid. And they would have been solid for outside,
but it's not solid for depth. So he's F3 selection was, um,
reselected and now we'll fucking see what, what those were. But, um,
you know, that, and the animal, when you self it,
that shows you all the crazy fucking recessive shit you can get when you self
something. And when my buddies, my buddies selfed the animal,
they're like, yeah, it's like fucking 20% comes out. So a 20, 20, 25%.
So, um, you're bound, if you can plant fucking 10 or 15 girls,
you're bound to get a lot of nice plants to pick from to get a clone.
And in this case, who knows? It's not, it's not that type of an inbreeding.
It's already been improved. So there might not be that many at all.
Could be really cool. So whoever got them, we'll get them. And I,
everybody knows, like I'll, I always,
I'll like put out 10 seeds or 20 seats.
I'll really give them more so they can fucking have more to look through.
I took that bag of fucking special Indica's and I,
I cracked it into fucking 15 baggies and everybody got like 150 seats on that
10, 10 seat deal.
That's a good surprise.
I take it all the time. I'll just scoop those back. All right.
Yeah. And it's cool too. Cause people are like, fuck, okay. I, I put in the,
I put in the money and you know, everybody who did it, like, fuck,
they're all giving it to, it's all going to a good thing. So, you know,
it's a good deal. So like these ones, I'll just fucking pull out these,
I'll just fucking give them the fucking bags, you know,
was so just, uh, on this one,
something that almost never happens,
which is like conflict resolution via text message.
Yeah. So Dustin and Chris, uh,
which is somewhat shocking. We're like,
let's figure this out. Let's not,
let's not start getting really mad at each other.
Let's figure this out together. And I, I'm not clear on what the actual deal is,
but I do like and support the fact that you guys came to a,
an agreement and everybody's happy with it.
I think that, uh, I think they're at a bit of 400,
which is 200.
Right. I don't know if Dustin said he's going to pay the 400 and give Chris
half. Uh, cause it seems like Jackson,
you're going to throw in more than 20 or if they're each going to throw in 200,
but I like that they've worked it out between themselves.
Do me a favor and make a note of what was what there,
as far as numbers and stuff. Um, and I'll, I'll make it work.
I'll make it work. However they can, I can,
I can give one of them them and they can split them or we can figure it out.
I could give them, I can split them and give them to both of them or whatever.
The deal is.
And uh, okay, Dustin, you are amazing.
And that is the holiday spirit. Uh,
if both of you can send an email to Trevor, who's standing by,
and then he'll connect both of you to each other and, uh,
Jackson and you guys, uh,
you guys might become lifelong friends because it's rare that we see like in
text people not getting more hyper aggressive with each other,
but like deescalating.
So I would like to encourage or applaud and encourage that.
God, so anyway,
I leave it up to Chris and Dustin to figure out what they agreed on.
But just the fact that you guys agreed on something is, is,
everybody's cheering the two of you on.
And I think, I think it's that, that we should end on tonight,
which is two people bidding on something and not getting in a fight,
which
get hooked up.
Unless Adam wants to keep going.
Oh man, I burned out a while ago. It's been a long couple of days.
Shitty days, man.
Yeah. Just one more kick in the nuts, you know?
Yeah.
Did the cat leave or where's the cat?
Oh, he's around. I think he went to go eat some food. He'll be back.
Got it. All right. Well,
I'm ready to go to bed. So why don't we call it a night?
Yep.
Unless anyone disagrees.
Good with that.
Yeah, I'm good with that. I'm beat.
Thanks boys for showing up and doing your thing and definitely appreciate it.
Alright, thanks everyone and for anybody who won, hit Trevor up.
He'll connect you with people. He'll verify.
Yell at me too, you know, send me a message or whatever.
So we'll get you square.
Your IG is family trees seeds, correct?
Yes, sir.
So it says Adam. Okay.
Yeah. And keep an eye out next week.
I think we're probably going to try and find a way to get the auctions going
again and keep that all going on IG on Thursday, Friday and Saturday,
but time will tell.
And you have your phone back?
I went and got a new phone. They, you know,
they asked me if they could have my code and then they would give me my phone
back in a day.
So I just got a new phone and they can have fun with that.
But you, but it's the same number, right?
Yeah. Same number.
Okay. Yeah. Cause you texted me and I was like, Whoa,
you got his back.
And I'm getting a new phone today. So.
Okay.
All right.
Well, thank you everyone. And Jackson and Tyler and uh,
I guess Kevin who dropped off and everybody who put up,
put up some stuff. Thank you.
And Cascadian and Adam and Trevor,
who's on standby. Trevor has been in the email inbox all night.
Thank you, Trevor.
And uh, Adam, I'm sorry for what happened yesterday,
but yeah, I'm just, I'm just,
I'm just really bummed. You know,
the there was a good amount of seeds probably shouldn't even have been there in
the first place, but I had a little more inventory,
just ramping up the IG auctions and just seeing those get lost before they even
got auctioned was, you know, heartbreaking. And then of course, you know,
there's probably 15, 20 packs of it already auctioned that got taken,
that we'll have to figure out, but you know,
it is what it is and we'll find a way to overcome it and keep moving forward.
Did you say, are you originally from where?
Me? Yeah. I grew up in Colorado and then moved to Southern.
That's what I was going to say, Colorado.
And you've been in the Santa Cruz area for how long?
I visited here in 93 and moved here in 94 and I've been here ever since.
And so you've been there ever since. And now you're like,
I'm going to move to Oklahoma cause they keep fucking with me here.
Yeah. I'm going to move to Oklahoma.
Yeah. I mean, I got a few leads.
I got a few opportunities potentially in California,
but I think going out and maybe trying to get my own thing going is more my
style than being a manager for somebody else's farm or be on a project.
I just don't know. You know, I've been on my own.
I was a glassblower for 12 years after college.
I've been a cultivator for over 20 years and I don't know if I'm really cut out
for a, yeah, I don't know. I'm good, you know,
doing things my way and I don't know how I fit into big teams and
organizations. Not that I couldn't, it's just, you know,
I'm difficult. Some people might say, so we'll see.
Yeah. If you're already going to move your base too,
you might as well go to those fucking frontier States cause everything is so
much easier now for a couple of years probably.
Yeah. I mean, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not,
No.
Yeah, I'm thinking three years of just, you know,
12 hour days, seven days a week.
Just like we did years ago, back in the early to 15 days.
So yeah.
No one would, no one would,
I know now versus what I knew then I think, you know,
not sitting on my laurels and taking it all for granted and really just making
the most of it's going to be a really fun time and good experience so looking
forward to it.
Fuck yeah.
Alright.
well everybody have a good night and
It's everybody watching. Thank you to everybody who made a donation obviously. Thank you
And we'll keep on keeping on so yeah, what do you think two weeks from tonight? We'll do it all again
Well, let yeah, let's circle on that because we got Christmas coming up, but we'll yeah, we'll figure out a it'll be in January
whatever
Some Tuesday night in early January. Yeah, and keep an eye out. I'm thinking maybe
Maybe around the Christmas holiday on a weekend
They're doing some quick fire auctions on a Saturday or Sunday where we just get together for
three four hours or something or maybe we get a couple groups of people coming in and just kind of do like a weekend thing
For some of the East Coasters because I know they miss out on a lot of this late-night
stuff here, so yeah
The main it's the Cal relief underscore fire relief fundraiser
That's just the main information page and then the fire relief fundraiser underscore one is the actual auction page where the auctions go down
Okay, well let me at least get one up so people can
And yeah to anybody that's real confused about last night and things just not happening
bear with me I'll get IG back online here and
Try and get back to everybody and try and see what we can do to clean up that mess so my apologies there
I think we need to work on shortening this Instagram handle to you've mentioned that on more than one occasion I
Think just Cal relief
Fundraiser well, let's let's have that conversation
Do we have you know unanimity on that idea
Yeah, there's a lot of apps in there for sure
I'd like to have the longest handle still
You feel you feel you feel threatened I feel like you're stepping on my toes
From Mendocino for years
Your name's Megan like no dude you gotta read it, you know you sight read everything
There's like three people thought my name was Megan
Yes
Everyone have a good night and thanks for participating
