Guys be a patient with me and having me on here tonight
We're live now so
Welcome everyone we got mr. Toad with some foxy ladies on his shirt
That's a bunch of haze for days right there
Yeah, I like it. I'm excited to grow that out. I
also have
The clone the shipper
That's a clone shipper hanging upside down to show everybody they keep cold safe. I also
Printed up a clear one so everyone can see how they actually look like inside here. They have insulated walls
the double walled
The lights inside this one's here to show everybody kind of how they're built
Everyone keeps asking me how they what they look like
So I just figured I'd let everybody see this is what the clear ones are I got one made out of him going right now
I'm gonna be giving it doing a giveaway. I'm gonna give away a hint version of this thing
Let me show you guys that one. It's kind of hard. It's printing on my printer right now
Let's see if I can get it to come in but
that's a
That's the printer in action right now printing a 100% biodegradable
Hemp bone clone shipper the hemp is grown in Michigan in the United States
So it's 100% you American-made product right there, man
Is that the direction you're gonna go in instead of plastic is to move fully to the hemp
Well, these plastic ones here also are fully biodegradable
The plastic the PLA plastic is a biodegradable plastic that's food grade its plant safe
So that's the reason I use these but this plastic is about
Three times cheaper than using the one that's got hemp in it
I can also make them out of sequestered carbon
So where they burn garbage and then they collect the carbon that comes from the burning process
And then that's injected back into the PLA plastic so that I can return the carbon back to the earth
Folks never want to buy the hemp one because I have to charge more because of what I'm paying for it
One now, but I mean that that's cool of the plastic one
Eventually degree or biodegrades
Yeah, so I make the clone shipper. I also make a air layer cloning unit that's made from the same hemp
I use that on my lemon trees
I'm gonna be giving out some lemon trees this year that are gonna be cloned off of my lemon tree
Using my lemon tree and I'm gonna be using that on my hemp
Lemon tree using my air layer technique that I have I don't have those with me
They're in the other room and they're hard to get to in this damn box. I was looking for him before I came on here
But yeah, I like using the plastic because it's biodegradable instead of just throwing plastic in the ocean that's in a bottle
Why not grind the bottle up turn that into a plastic that can be reused and put back in the earth
Now not that all plastic can be done that way, but some of the plastic that they're using
Turns into these products like this. I mean people are printing all kinds of stuff
I decided why not return this back to the earth. I can ship a plant in this you guys see one hanging here
What you do is you just take the unit let me get one here that's got a light
They hold your dabber nice and well also
You take your clone you're gonna turn your light on
You're gonna slip it inside and it's gonna snap on there
Come on
Now once they're on there what I do is I just take a piece of tape and stick them across there that way
They're not gonna come out and ship them, but they keep it a plant safe
Lit up for three days
It's just a way to return plastic back to the earth without it being trashed. I mean if it's used another time
Even if it wasn't biodegradable to me that's better than just drinking out of it and throwing it in the goddamn trash
So and I've also designed them to work with a cup that we all use for plants
So like I start my seedlings in these these are some of the savage cush that are on Peter site right now on dog
I love I have for the savage cush seedlings. I got going right now
I
Start the seedlings in the cups
They can grow up and be passed as a seedling this way if you want if you don't want to clone them a lot of people
Want to send their friends seedlings you might want to ship them for testing instead of just some
Material you can send the whole plant let them test the whole damn plant for you see if they know what they're doing
But that's just my thing I like to try to reuse
I'm kind of like you know
I don't want to waste my money buying shit over and over again when I can try to reuse something multiple times
That's just where my vision is with these things
Hoping people like them. I hope they want to use them
So what I want to tell everybody's when they do get them from Peter site, they're gonna come with two cups
They also come with two lights inside of them
So you're gonna have a replacement light so you can change the batteries out if it dies so the person that you send a cut
To can send the cut back to someone else now
They're also gonna come with a three pack of haze for days seeds when you get them from Peter spot
They're inside of each one of the units. There'll be a three pack of seeds inside when you get them
Throw those up shortly I wanted advice from you on what box size
You recommend, but we can do that offline so just before because these comments are gonna
Go by someone
earlier while we were
Doing our technical troubleshooting
Chadway's talking about I know he posted some stuff about his reversing techniques, which is something that holds interest to me
Haven't much experience in reversing outside of theoretical
All righty well. I did send you some information in the email there on the
Google Drive it has the information on how to make the spray. There's three videos on it
There's also pictures of the Icarus that I've reversed
So the spray I use is a nine-to-one when I'm doing it with an STS. There's a four-to-one spray
There's also a nine-to-one the one that I use I use
Two different types of products you're going to use a silver nitrate and silver thiosulfate and sodium nitrate
You need the silver thiosulfate is anhydrous
It's gonna weigh two and a half grams
That's going to be added to the spray
Two and a half grams that's going to be added to 500 milliliters of water the
sodium is
Half a gram and that's added to 500 milliliters of water
There's a part a and part B to those you always add part a to part B. You don't do it the other way around
I know it sounds weird. I would have labeled it the other way, but the way it's done
That's how it's been written up. I can't remember the guy's name off the top of my head here
I'm not sure if I sent you the the full write-up on that of actually the information on that one
It's in the Richard Clark's book. It's been on the internet for years
Hybrid Tech was one of the guys that shared it in the early days
I can't remember the other cats name
Hybrid Tech and one other guy
Yeah, they were sharing that a long time ago
I'm showing people how to actually reverse it and what they did is they found that from Mohan Ram at HY Mohan Ram a man
that was messing with the
reversing of male cannabis and female cannabis back in the 70s that he pulled a lot of his information from a lot of other people but
The recipe that's passed around by most people came from Mohan Ram's work
there's even a line of cannabis named after that cat, but
That's a place
I like to send a lot of people that are looking for information on reversal of plants start to read up on
HY Mohan Ram that he has a lot of paperwork
a lot of peer-reviewed studies on
Reversing plants
Specifically cannabis
So yeah, you really?
Go ahead runner. Oh, no. I was just gonna say he is like the authority
He is the dude who came up with the technique and tried multiple different
mechanisms for reversing both males and females and those
early 70s to early 80s articles are really the like
It totally changed the game and created the whole possibility for chemical reversals
Yeah, he was using silver nitrate. He was using cobalt ga3
This is a reason I tell people when they're using desiccant
Make sure they always get a desiccant that does not have blue colored desiccant blue has cobalt in it
Cobalt has a ability to reverse your plant
So it's something you don't want to fuck with when you're messing around with your cannabis plants
you could be messing around with desiccant in one room and
Go play with a plant and not wash your hands
And if it's a sensitive enough plant you may end up having the effect of it
Showing stamina or pistil at flower depending on the plant that you're messing with
A lot of people didn't they're gonna start saying that the plants
Homorphodite and it had to be the breeder and they don't even start thinking about
Different chemicals that they could be bringing into their garden from other places in their house that could have an effect on
cannabis like back in the day when people used to use a
Propane burners if propane is not burned fully in a room it leaves ethylene as an off gas ethylene has the ability to make a
male
Reverse to a female and show as a female so you end up with a male in a room that starts to show a lot
of ethylene
ethylene induced the female
Formations now he's gonna start showing trichomes
He's gonna start pistol it formation and now you think you got a male that's fucked up
And it's actually the environment that has screwed up his phenotypic
expression and now it's starting to steer traits in him that say I need to try to
You know I need to replicate. I need to make seeds so inside the coating of the plant
Let's do to become a plant
That's gonna show both
sexes and it's all because back in the day dudes were running way too much propane trying to pump co2 in a room that couldn't
Use it and then the pump the burner might go out and you end up with all this unburnt propane in the room and that shit
had an effect of
Fucking with your plants especially if you was worried a lot of people didn't never caught on to that shit
You got it. You got a research into stuff that has nothing to do with the plant and sometimes
Are you just gonna be stuck with indicants of Tiva for the rest of your life?
I
Don't like this up. I
Just ran up to check on my two-year-old who?
Did not go down until almost 11 o'clock last night, so someone can you see the YouTube comments?
I'm trying to read on my screen so small, so I'm trying to catch those as I talk while I remember
Yeah, but you see where it is okay, so
Charles asked about your
your pollen drying techniques
Yes, um I sent you some of the paperwork on that in there should say pollen in the
Gmail if you want to bring some of those up so
What I use is a cured coffee cup container
I'd have to go in the other room and get one of those I hate being one-legged sometimes
But everybody knows what those little cured coffee containers are there for yeah, we've blown your own ground-up coffee
I use those to hold the desiccant when I'm trying my pollen so um
This was brought up on one of the other shows Samara brought this up
They were asking how do you dry pollen that can last a long time this technique?
I've used
Even when I didn't have the Keurig's I used to use coffee filters that I would make packages of that held the desiccant
And I've had pollen last over six years
So pollen can be saved if you know what you're doing so well the first thing you got to do is get yourself a trim
Bin I got one of these right here. I'll show you
Don't trim your weed in it so get yourself a trim bin
Trim bins got a screen in it, and you can get a 150 or a 200 micron get the smallest micron
You can get so I go with the 200 on here
With that 200 micron now I can
Catch all the stamina flowers from my mail when I shake it above this and what happens is it catches all of the sepals
It's gonna catch all the bracts everything all the filaments every part of the mail plant
Is gonna get caught in this screen and all of your pollen goes into the bottom and what I end up doing is I line
The bottom of these with the parchment paper that's made for cookie sheets
It comes pre-folded in four ways
So it ends up having a small little indention in the center where the pollen will naturally collect
So I take that piece it fits exactly inside of here. You don't have to cut it
All you got to do is take it out of the package
There's a Reynolds wraps cookie sheets that they're made of parchment papers for your cookie sheet you put it in here
You put the screen over the top
You're gonna shake your mail over the top of this
Your pollen falls through you take that package now
And you slide that stuff into a glass jar the glass jar now has the cured coffee container in it
glued to the lid that way
The desiccant can't actually touch the pollen when it touches the pollen the pollen will statically cling to it
And you're not getting it off, so you lose all your pollen make sure it's glued to the lid man
Wish I had one with me
So that way it keeps all the pollen inside there from getting any kind of moisture once the pollen falls through that screen
That's already dry everyone thinks they have to dry it already
It's dry once it's passed through that screen in the trim bin so now once you collect it and put it in your jar
It's a really doesn't need the desiccant unless you're a type of person
That's gonna go in there with a brush to try to get some pollen
Are you like pulling it out and looking at it every time you do that?
You are allowing some form of moisture to get into that jar moisture has the effect of distorting the shape of the cannabis
Pollen cannabis has a very specific shape to the pollen it has three
Indents or three little what they look like nipples on them kind of like with a little ring
it's specific to the dicots of cannabis and that family of
cannabis see of like
Hops also has almost an identical form of pollen when you look at them under a microscope
They're almost indistinguishable, and it comes down to those three little dots that are on there and those little shapes are the key pathways
For the pollen tube to accept that grain of pollen when a plant's going to make a seed so when you go to pollinate
for that seed to gestate that
Pollen tube has to form and that grain has to be able to be inserted into the alveolus
Or it's never going to make a seed that's viable
So what comes down to it you need to make sure that your pollen is as pristine as possible
So the reason I use that piece of paper, and so I don't have to scrape it up every time I scrape pollen
I'm damaging some of the pollen this I don't have to use a brush every time
I'm brushing it the brush can collect some of it. I'm wasting some of it, and it's damaging some of it
I want to keep my pollen in the most pristine
State I can until it touches the pistols on the plant until I go and put it on the stamens
Are the not the stamen?
I'm sorry to the pistol it's formation on the flower like I've got going in here with my space cheese male with the rest of
The girls so he's going to be a natural pollinator. I'm not going to be using my hand to pollinate
He's going to drop pollen fans going to move it around, but I will go in there after the
Five days that I pollinate and collect the rest of the pollen for the next two weeks and that pollens going to get stored
So I'll be making videos to show you guys how to do that
Directly from your garden instead of trying to figure it out because I've had so many people ask me to walk them through it
Without looking at the pictures that I've posted
This way of saving pollen is going to keep your pollen
Good for a long time like I said
I I probably made like 50,000 seeds off pollen that was off of a small vial about this big that was over six years old
It will last as long as you keep it dry you keep it dark, and you don't fuck with it
So don't freeze it and reopen it every time you freeze it and thought and open it and freeze it again
You're gonna have trouble with the pollen grain starting to distort and deform
So if you're gonna freeze it leave it there
Put it in different size little vials that we can pull one vial out
And you don't have to thaw out a whole jar of pollen
I've seen cats have a quarter like a ball jar full of pollen, and they're just dipping the brush in there all the time
They're contaminating it. They're adding moisture
They're they're just they're not being respectful to the plant man. If you want it to last treat it like you want it to last
So
You kind of I think answer this in a way Chad asked
What is the ideal air to pollen ratio in the jar, but then you said don't use just a jar put it in smaller
containers yeah
Well it doesn't once it's dry it you could feel your vial all the way to the top
It does not matter just make sure that that stuff's fully dry a lot of people will like to pick the
They're gonna pull the filaments out
They're gonna pull the sepals out with tweezers and when they're doing that they're making moisture
Be absorbed by some of the pollen around those pieces
And then they dump that pollen in the jar and the pollen that was next to that piece of of sepal or the filament from
the male flowers has now contaminated that pollen is
Likely gonna affect the rest of that pollen in the jar. That's why people are having problems
Spending too much time using tweezers to pick green shit out of weed instead of processing it in a way that will keep it for
a long time
It's dry off the plant. We know this because
When the wind catches it and it hits a pistol on a female it's ready to pollinate
So if you collect it correctly you don't have to do anything, but store it correctly
So just make sure you're not adding any green particles from the plant no vegetative matter at all into that jar
that's where all the bad happens as soon as you add any form of
Vegetative matter to that jar no matter how small is it's going to affect the pollen in that jar
It is not gonna last 100%
It's just not gonna make it. I've heard of people saying they like to use water to spread their pollen
They don't understand how pollen works you might get some seeds with a little bit of wet pollen
But it's not gonna work on the level and efficiency that it would have as a dry pollen would have right and a pollen
one
Stamina flower on a cannabis plant has three hundred thousand grains up to of pollen
You can make a shitload of seed off the smallest amount of pollen
So you don't need a big old pint jar of pollen you just need these little tiny tubes
That's enough to make you thousands and thousands of seeds
So there's a lot of people out there just wasting too much time and wasting too much pollen by not saving it correctly
So I like using those small four ounce jars that those
cured
Coffee cups barely fit inside of that way I can add about a quarter inch of pollen to the bottom
It won't touch any of the desiccant
And then I can just pull one of those jars out when I need it and that's the pollen that I'll use I don't have
Take out a whole pint or a quart jar of pollen if I do that. I'm just wasting it
You guys
How you doing brother I'm just trying to read these comments
Word yeah, no. I'm just catching up had a had a toddler wake up. No I hear you
Lady bugs kept yeah, keep you can keep your pollen frozen as long as you want just don't
Thought and keep refreezing it the more you do that the more you're killing your pollen the pollens gonna start to deform
The shape of that pollen is gonna make it impossible for it to form the pollen tubes you need for gestation of a seed
You just be careful with your pollen guys
What's the link to the video about storing pollen?
Peter has it it's a write-up that I did it's not a video the video
I couldn't find I did the video two years ago, and I can't find the I must have got rid of it
But I did a write-up on it the write-up is on my Instagram page
And I've also sent the write-up to Peter so when he comes back here
Maybe he'll pop it up so everyone can see it. It shows step-by-step how to do exactly what I'm talking about
I
Need to love plant it's so hard to read this damn thing
Let's see here guys
Also like I want to keep reminding everyone that Peter does have some of my gear on his site
He's got my savage cush, which is a line that I created named after my mother my mom used to love smoking
Skywalker og so I took the Skywalker
Crossed it to my angel angels a plant that's named after my father
Those two lines together made my savage cush. It's a
Heavy it cush line. It's gonna be
Real similar to a la confidential. It's got la confidential in it a couple times
It does have some outliers that will be on the Romulan side from the grandfather or the grandmother um an angel
What do we got here? I?
Have some of them right here's one of the little babies right now to show some of the folks kind of the structure
I'd pop some of these during the these are from the test germinations that I did
I
Showed those on Instagram also, but just so people see what they look like they're gonna have short fat wide leaves
Man the pictures I sent to Peter I might have to pull something up here to show you guys
I hate doing this on the phone
Does he just don't look well, but I have I can pull them up
What do you want to show pictures that although the savage cush I was talking about my savage cush here
It's in a file there, that's all it says say savage cush
There's some indoor shots of it and some outdoor shots some bed shots, but shots
Pick rub it in a basket. That's an outdoor
I remember that
But yeah, that's a line of name for my mom my mom's nickname since she was in college was savage
She used to smoke like if you guys ever seen Cheech and Chong which I know all of you have
Chong used to smoke a joint till there was no paper left right that's my mom used to do the same shit and her friends in
High school would witness her doing that so many times
I ended up calling her savage because of how she used to just fucking finish a joint
And that's how this strain got its name is savage cush
It's her nickname
It's one of two lines that I've named after my mother the other one would be Nana's cookies
Which is a strain that I named for because my mom used to be the baker for my other company
I used to be known as 215 farms back in around
2008 to 2010 I used to run a collective and I used to be the edible guy I used to be the clone guy
I was the bud tender. I ran the club. I was the manager. I put in the security man
I used to clean the toilets in that place
I did everything but at that time my mom used to bake for us and we used to do chocolate chip cookies double chocolate chip
diabetic peanut butter
We used to do carrot cake brownies. We used to do lemon bars
We man we used to do so much stuff. I did
Chocolate dark chocolate milk chocolate candy bars. I did Rice Krispie candy bars. I did like a mr.
Good bar candy bar we had
Rice Krispie treats and regular cocoa fruity and in a peanut butter version I
did 15 different flavors of
tinctures
glycerin tinctures
What else did I have up in the shop man? I did
barbecue sauce
Italian dressing
Olive oil I mean we used to make so much stuff and because my mom was baking so much stuff
I ended up naming that lane that line Nana's cookies. It's a Girl Scout forum cross to my angel
So that's one of two lines I did for my mom
What you guys are savage? Yeah
That's an indoor shot of savage probably at around Dave 52 or something
That's one of the top shots ever
That's one of the buds offer that but had felon off a felon. I had to fall off the plant
So I took a picture of it before I trimmed her all the way up. I
Should have sent you some of the shots over where she shows pink pistols in early flower. That's one of her popping out of the
One of the oasis cubes that I use I use oasis cubes and seeds and in my cloning
I don't always use them in seeds though
Oh
These are the oasis cubes that I use there are horticultural foam
They're neutral pH. You don't have to soak them in any specific
pH balanced nutritional
Anything on any kind of liquids you just give them water out the tap and you're good to go with these easy
Unless you got a bunch of chloramine in there
Or your PPMs are spiking like over three or four hundred, and then I might I might start adjusting shit
But they work good for me up to about three hundred fifty parts per million anywhere from about five point five to six point
Five pH and I get roots in them within like twelve days no matter what
That's a savage cush right there that fence behind her was six foot so she was probably about nine feet there that plant
That gives you an idea of the structure of her she's gonna grow
She's she's real healthy man. She's got a hybrid vigor to her
So she's she's not a stunted slow grow plant kind of like a deep chunk. She will grow fast for you
there's two of them right there to show kind of the
How they're the structure is similar an early veg. That's why I was showing some of these here
Also to show that even a few years later, they're still showing that same kind of shape short fat white leaves
They fish she's gonna finish in
Right around 62 days. That's some artwork that my cousin drew my cousin Jesse, but check. Oh, he's a tattoo artist, man
He did all the early artwork on my um I did an art series on my very first drop
That was your mom happy with that picture, yeah, she was cool with that man
That's that's my mom when she don't have a joint right there on me for real
And that's her on the nicest day of her life when she don't have a joint
For real, my mom was crazy as hell without weed when I was growing up
That's one of the reasons I got into breeding my mom was uh, she took a lot of antidepressants when I was young and
She was always hiding cannabis and until my family decided that like hiding cannabis from even from each other wasn't healthy
She just was on these antidepressants and once I found some of these certain plants the Romulan blue dream
cataract cush
What else did I have for?
Super silver haze those plants made my mom feel like she could go outside again, right?
So that's why I use the blue drip and so many different crosses for my mom. She's it. That's a plant
They got her off of antidepressants
She was on antidepressants for probably like 22 years and after I found the blue dream within like two years
I had gotten her off of antidepressants
So a lot of people like to dog that plant, but without that plant my mom would still be stuck in a bedroom
Swallowing pills trying to figure out how to get out and she just couldn't figure that out
Cannabis has been a plant that's
Always been a medicine in my family. We just weren't
We were like my mom's generation
She was still scared to to express that as her medicine because they were always told it was bad shit
My generation was the first one. I was like, you know what homie? I don't care what you think about me. I'm smoking some weed
I'm coming over and if you don't like it
Just tell me to leave and that's what I'll do like I'm not gonna start no trouble
There won't be none. So like just deal with it. You're gonna smoke a cigarette and get drunk
Why can't I have my joint and that started discussions in my family that?
Basically healed a lot of people my mom got better my grandfather's
Went from being a complete drunk and who was dying from cancer to accepting cannabis
He's the reason why I got into breeding my uncle
He had seizures his whole life until I introduced him to the haze line and then his miraculously
He wouldn't have a seizure. He just couldn't believe that he wasn't having seizures and I'm like dude
It's the weed and it's not drinking like all you got to do is smoke the weed and you'll never have a seizure again partner
I can like that's just you it's what's happening, but you drink and you quit smoking weed and
You rattle your brain until you wake up in the coma man
Are you into like he was pronounced dead three times legally? He woke up in the morgue three times
Unzipping a body bag like that dude would drink too much and end up dead and till I introduced him to weed man
And then once he found weed he was another reason like the first line I ever created was for my uncle
Specifically to stop him from drinking so he would quit having seizures and that's when I made my first cross in 96
Which was a purple haze and a green haze and I called it simplify
I made that in 1994 when he and my cousin Danny both passed away from cancers from drinking
my uncle
He had brain cancer. He's got
stomach cancer my cousin Danny had stomach cancer and they both
they just they drowned to death man and
They should kill them and neither one of them would turn to the plant in time to save
Theirself any of that pain and just when I saw them all die from drinking and not
Embracing this plant and just not going out in pain, you know
Like if you would have just smoked some herb and quit drinking they wouldn't had as much trouble as they did
They wouldn't do it
So that's why I started reading to make these plants for other people that were in the same position
So that I could tell them about these other people
Name it after him so they'd never forget and on a day when they needed to drink a little bit more
they instead of drinking they pick up a line that I named after my uncle or after my brother or my mother or my dad and
They would smoke that instead right like a veteran that's got PTSD
He'll pick up a line named after my pops and he'll
He'll feel better that day instead of turn into the bottle like my dad did one time or my uncle who would have seizures
From drinking until he was numb instead of drink till you're numb
Why don't you smoke until you know brother and just pass out high and not have that fucking seizure not end up dead again, brother
And I use that through my whole club
I turned so many people on that thought cannabis was evil to a plant that changed their lives
I had so many people come back and tell me that
Like they told me I was evil. I was a bastard
I was nothing good and it was all because of that plant and you taught me that that plant
Has no bad in it
The only bad comes from the intentions that were with you already
I didn't have to be the alcohol didn't have to be the weed it had to be the mentality that was
Carrying that shit around it's never the plant. It's never the drink
It's never the vice that you claim it is
It's always yourself and that plant it taught me that that the plant taught me it and helped me teach other people that same thing
That's what I use the plant for
You know
I'm hoping not miss too many people here
No, you're good. I'm back. I finally
Hopefully successfully put my daughter down to bed. I'm sorry
but you uh, just to let you finish on the
On this oh, that's a savage kush right there that's outdoor
That was grown in a 60 gallon pot
She was going next to my swimming pool out here
That was one of the very first runs of her when I ran her I ran her years ago that that's probably got to be
around 2012
when I that pictures from
She has a very tight bud structure. She's got very good
It's a velvet Lee a real velvet tricone coverage, so it's kind of be kind of greasy
It's not really great for a dry sift
She washes well if you're gonna make a bubble hash
I used to use that line and my space kush line
Quite a bit and all my my edibles were all based off bubble hash
So I would send in my bubble hash and have it tested
That would come back and then all that stuff would be added by weight to equal the milligram dosages that we would need
To reach the numbers we were at my cookies were at 95 milligrams apiece
My candy bars were at 95 milligrams apiece
My candy bars were 397 milligrams
My tinctures the bottles they came out at 95 milligrams also per dosage
You'd get a full dose off of a whole squirt bottle the squirter that was in there
What else did I have in there?
The triple chocolate chips so those were gonna be those were also 397
Then everything also could be made
Custom so like if you came in and said my edible wasn't strong enough
We would work with you until we got to the level you wanted and then we would figure out the pricing we got there
So until we got to that level you still paid the regular price my cookies were $2 a piece at
95
97 milligrams a piece you pay $4 for two cookies in my club
You get them in a vacuum sealed pack the candy bars were five bucks out the door
for 397 milligrams
For 397 milligrams
And we were we were helping people get high as fuck all damn day man
We used to have people coming in by 20 or 30 candy bars a day man
Just so they could fucking sit there high as shit. They'd give them to their friends
We used to have people coming in by my lotion
That were on
These kids would take ecstasy and buy my lotion and rub that shit all over their bodies and have these parties where they were fucking
giving each other
Cannabis massages and shit it was crazy shit man in those 215 days
Oh, man, I'm telling you these cats would come in and buy case like a whole case of my lotion
They're four ounce bottles like I'm like. What are you doing buying 12 bottles of lotion like man?
We go and have these parties dude
We go take ecstasy, and we just sit there and rub on each other and shit, and I'm like man. Are you crazy?
What the fuck are you talking about they started asking me if I'd make a sex lotion for him like sex rubs and shit
I'm like dude. Don't you want it to feel down there you trying to turn the feeling off. What are you talking about, bro?
You guys are using the shit the wrong way
Man we had someone else that used to make it. I was like I'm not into that man. That's not for me
I'd rather smoke a joint and have a good time with with Mike significant other than try to fill some oil up with a bunch
You know concentrate and then rub it all over their ass and see if we can slip and slide off the sheets
Trevor what are your thoughts on this topic?
Yeah, it's a potential like gross niche market, you know
They want Kush to come back
It's coming back with my ghost of Port Royal line the ghost og Kim dog special reserve stuff
That's all getting across to ghost og to panga GMO Kim 91 Kim for Kim D
Dog Walker
Cory I mean if you guys want fucking ogs and pushes they're coming. Don't worry. I got those in the works, too
So talk about what you are where I mean, what's the focus right now?
Right now I am working on my space cheese line. So the space cheese was a blueberry
And a UK cheese that was created here
so when I had my club I had this guy that came and asked me if I would take his
Mom plant he was moving and he wanted to put it in someone's hands. That wasn't going to
Just give it to everybody. So he asked me if I would keep the plant I could grow with it
I could breed with it and I could offer the herb in my club. Just don't pass the cutting
So I told him no problem partner
He gave me the cut the dude went to move and he ended up moving out of state
He never comes back for his cutting. So I take the cutting
I use it to cross to my angel plant and I end up with what's called space cheese
So I make this in 2008 and since the space cheese at that time had a line
That was that guys and I hadn't got the okay to release it. I'd never released the space cheese
So I used it to create what I called my angel back cross number two
So it took space cheese and crossed it back to angel. So it was angel angel
Blue cheese and that's the line I released on the public to everybody and that's been out since
2012 so I let that go and
Everybody liked it and I've always liked my space cheese. It tastes like Parmesan and fermented grapes
It's I used to take it to the Emerald Cup every time I went everyone asked me what it was
Always always thinking this was a line that I wanted to breed with and when I almost died in 2018
When I finally come back
One of the first things I wanted to do was to try to extend that line
But everyone kept asking for my redwoods
So I went with the redwood first and then I extended the Hayes because when Neville passed away
I wanted to bring something
Back to the community that he used to work with just to kind of pass respect to the man to let his memory
Be refreshing in everybody's mind. So I made the line and I gave out probably 500 packs. I sent 200 to Jamaica
Sent a ton of those out. So once that's done. I start popping the space cheese seeds. I ran them outdoors last year
So I showed everybody what they could do outdoors growing so I could decide if I wanted to actually breed on them
I took the ghost of Kim the ghost of Port Royal male
Which is the ghost og Kim dog special reserve and the space cheese male and I pollinated both of the females
And I've test ran those already and they came to my liking so I decided I'm gonna extend that line out
So that's what I got going right now in the tent behind me. Only the light just went out at 10 o'clock right now. So I
Cannot turn it
So by here, I've got a space cheese male. That's got 14 different girls in there with him. So he's got a space cheese female
There's a GMO. There's Kim D. Kim 91 Kim for there's a Cory stardog
There's the Death Star. There's dog Walker. There's Mac one
There's cherry pie
What else do I got in there man?
I gotta be leaving something out
But all those are getting crossed in that half of them already been ran that I already created the seed line
So I'm making an extension on them. The other half are being sent out in testers
As soon as they're finished the first ones I've ones I already ran
I sent some pictures of the space cheese f2s to you
The other crosses those are going out this week the rest of them. I already sent three or four testers out yesterday
I'll send the rest out probably Monday
Everybody's getting a tester pack along with a clone of the mom that
Created the seed line that way they can run the mother
Next to the seed line and compare them and decide whether or not they think they're the terpene profiles coming across
Is the plant better or worse? Is it stable have all of a sudden?
Is it showing minocious traits coming out of the line because the cross isn't stable for some reason
So that's a way that I like to do my testing
I like to take the mother that was used in the cross and
Send it with the seed line to whoever's testing it
I used to do most of my testing in-house, but since I don't have my legs no more
I just decided I'm gonna send it to people and let them do the way I would have done it so I
Picked up seven testers last week, and they're all getting new shit sent to them
So just quickly. I don't remember which conversation this is from but flora nugs who's
watching
That's it that's a
Actually, they think see that's what everyone says they think they grew my plan already that they grew angel back cross number two which is
Space cheese cross to angel not blue cheese cross to angel blue cheese is the mother to space cheese
I've been trying to correct that for people for years
Nobody except for me and Ross Danny
He's a
Reggae artist are the only two people on earth that have ever grown space cheese, which is blue cheese cross to angel
I'm the only one and now I sent a cut two months ago to Michigan to my partner
he's the only man outside of the me and Danny ever to have that plant in their garden and
I will be making the mothers available
Probably this coming season here a few other people have asked about growing the space cheese who have smoked it
And I'm gonna be sending it their way, but it's basically gonna be other breeders
I'm not gonna be sending it out to just everybody to grow
I want to put it into some people's hands to do some collaborations with them
That's what I'm really working on
So yeah, what floor notes thinks they a lot of people have thought that same thing it's
Blue cheese to angel is space cheese. That's what I'm doing right now
Space cheese is the mom to angel back cross number two, and that's what everybody's grown for some reason
They all think that they've grown space cheese. I don't understand it
They all think they grew angel also because I dropped angel back cross one two three and four and they all just labeled it angel
So you'll start seeing people on Instagram all saying they grew angel and angel is a specific
phenotype of a seed line I created in
2004 and then named for my dad when he died my dad died in
2009 and the male space cush number seven became angel like nobody's ever
Ever touched that plant they've never cloned it. They all they did was look at it
I never let anyone
Repot it nothing that plant stayed with me for 15 years until I lost my leg
And then my family could not keep my plants going and me and they let my plants all go
And I lost all my breeding shit that I had for 15 years
So I lost everything to health issues man
It's something I try to tell people be careful with your health don't end up like brother bone
That's the tent right behind me here the male in the middle the place in the middle is the space cheese male
He's surrounded by 14 different females
So yeah directly in the mail a middle there, that's the space cheese now
I sent you some pictures of some purple
It's pictures of him frosted up outside. I put him outside to do some breeding last year during the winter run and he turned
Jet black purple and he produced copious amounts of resin
That's the space cheese for
That's a space cheese indoor that's at about day 45
That's the space cheese male when he's outside during the winter run
There's the space cheese. That's the f2 that was made during the winter run, and then I ran him out here
That's the f2 test of the space cheese that those are the seeds. I'll be dropping here
Probably in about three months of making I'm making more I'm making copies of the f2 number two and the f2 number four
They're
extremely resinous
Parmesan grape cheese platter is what that plant tastes like
She clones extremely easy
She does not stretch much. She's got about a 25% stretch on the space cheese
Maybe 30% maximum
Mr. Fremont a space cheese male, that's him right there
Yes, uh, there's some them some fuzzy wuzzy's right there
Yes water does the activate cannabis pollen someone says not that it deactivated
It's that it deforms the shape of the pollen and then it cannot form
It's not able to just a to seed with the obvious man the pollen tube never forms correctly and
Shit don't work right. That's why you don't want water on your pollen. I see mark the person Korea. I think that's his name
Why is
Visual why is he seeing jet black and purple now because the plant was put outside in the winter run
During the winter the plant builds up a lot of anthocyanins to try to
Basically warm its system. It's trying to absorb as much
Solar energy as possible. That's what the anthocyanins are building up for in that plant outside
The resin is a result of stress from the cold
So you're seeing copious amounts of resin on that plant when he's outside because it's a stress reactor
That's something a lot of people that are doing out there
You're seeing a lot of males outside that people are showing that are extremely
Frosty man, if you induce cold in your room
You can get a male to start to drop a lot of pollen if you hit that male with hair pin proteins
He'll start to produce a lot of pollen put a lot of ethylene on that male. He'll produce a lot of pollen
There's a lot of different ways to get a male to produce pollen that male the space cheese males doing it because I put him
outside to test him for his ability to fight off mold and
To live through the freezing temperatures, so I stuck him outside
November
7th and I
Just killed him about two weeks ago outside the plant lived up until now. We've been getting too much rain to where the
The
The stock and shit started to absorb too much moisture and they're starting to fucking just bend over and die
So I just said fuck it. There's no longer to keep him moving out there. I already used them to pollinate
I tried to pollinate the haze for days with him, but the haze went too far and
The pistols weren't receptive so the same haze right here
He was putting the same pot that the haze was in the one that you guys seen that giant ass plant out there
So I put him and one of his sisters out there, and I made some seeds in the winter with him
So that's why you see that dark frosty, dude
So do you see this question let me make it a how long does it take you're gonna see a reaction within 48 hours
72 maximum you're gonna see pistols
Literally receding back into the buds after you manually pollinate a plant
But you got to be careful because manual pollination can have the effect of causing those pistols to fucking pull in anyway
even if just from the stress of fucking banging on him with a brush and shit I
Hate I kind of don't like doing manual pollinations myself when I do a pollination that way I take the little vials and
I pour the pollen onto the lid of a ball jar, and I just I blow it on the plant
That's how I do it. I don't take little brushes and and pollinate buds myself really they pick up too much resin on the brush
you're gonna lose a ton of your fucking pollen the
You're bruising the fruit. Just poking at it with the brush
It's just a way to damage the buds the trichomes fuck up the whole brack
So I try to just blow the pollen on the plant
So this seems like the question everyone gets how do you pick your males I
Think I'm wrong fine
Here's what I would tell you everybody learn the line that you want to breed with you're not gonna use the same
Criteria to pick a male in every line you breed with so if you're trying to breed for a line for CBD
You're not gonna use the same stuff that you would look for in a line. That's a mutated leaf
So if you're working with freak show and want to continue the mutated leaf you're not looking for stem rubs
You're not looking for flower time you're looking for the shape of the leaf
So if you're breeding for like my haze for days over here, you're looking for long flower. You're looking for pissy
aromatic
Buds that have an incense and cedar on the back of them
so it depends on what you're either steering the plant towards or what you're trying to
keep going in the line, so if you're trying to just continue a
Let's say you're doing a landrace line a landrace line
You need to take as many males and as many females as you have and let them just pollinate each other now
Say you're taking a deep chunk, and you want to continue a deep chunk in the one direction
But you want a purple one or you want a green one now you got to start looking for specific
Visual keys to get you to be able to breed that across and then you're gonna have to take that plant and breed it to its
Progeny to see if when you back cross if those traits are blocking back up
Or if they're just gone find out if your plan is homozygous or heterozygous you can do this
Visually through breeding or you can do it through having the plant sequenced most of us aren't gonna have the plant sequence so learn a plan
Pick a line that you're gonna work with and start crossing it to other plants and find out what it has to offer
Instead of trying to pop ten seeds
Rubbing the male and going I think this one's gonna breed what I'm looking for if you've never worked with the line
You don't know what to look for so you need to become familiar
With what you want before you decide to breed what you're looking for
That's that's the first thing I tell everybody after that it just comes down to just do it
Put some pollen on some plants grow those seeds out and find out if what you thought was gonna happen is gonna happen
And then you're gonna be able to start looking at plants and going you know what that plants probably gonna pair
Well with this plant and bring me some of the terpene profiles that I'm looking for or that plant cuts
Every flower time by ten days no matter what plant I put it on now
You know you have a plant that's got
homozygous to a for breeding and cutting time
It's just being
You have to become familiar with a plant
You're not gonna be able to pick any type of breeding male if you don't know anything about the lines you're working with
You're just not gonna do it
You need to reverse your male if you're gonna learn it I've done that with my male my angel male
I reversed him he came back at eleven point five four percent THC
You need to cross him to as many different females as you can and back cross him on itself
To see what he's bringing to the table
Make as many F generations from his progeny
To see what traits that he did pass that you weren't seeing are now popping up recessive in the line
So maybe you can line breed some of those in a different direction now
You won't see those in him
But they're in his progeny because they came from the grandparent line
Which could be showing up in as an atavistic trait in the plant so you might end up seeing something that just popped out of
Nowhere that was related to three grandparents back, right?
And you could have never chose for this because you had never seen that plant at all
But now that it pops up and you see it now you can try to find a replicator in this sibling his sister
Maybe you self it or whatever it takes to try to get that mutation that you're seeing or that trait
Back out of the plant. You're not just gonna pick it going. Well. What am I looking for?
That's just way too vague. I believe for people if you if you're popping seeds you've never worked for before
You're only gonna find in there what you're looking for you're gonna think it says cookie
So I see cookies or it says diesel I see diesel
But if you've never grown the diesel mother or the cookies mother you're never gonna really find them in there
You're just looking at pictures and claiming it
That there's too much of that going on out here way too much too many people finding the mom and f1s from polyhybrids
Or the day it's like I don't understand that just way too many people finding like I found the sour diesel lean and phenol
Does it breed sour diesel like can I give that to ten dudes that smoke sour diesel?
Are they gonna keep it in their room or did you just say it's sour diesel because you think it is
There's just too much of that happening
Well, that's interesting I mean we had the cat piss conversation
I don't know. It was like two weeks ago and kind of I feel like everybody has a different
Perception of like what cat pisses to James Loud is different than what it is to teach Tom
than what it is to
someone else
Yeah, but if we all sat down and smoked some of those herbs together really smoke like it
We'll use the cat piss because that's what James show was on if
20 of us sat down and smoked the cat piss that he was talking about
We would all understand it instead of all of us reading high times and going I was told I smoked that shit
So that's must have been what it was and I read about it
So the story says it and now I put them together and that's what it is
Like what James described as cat piss is exactly what I used to buy as cat piss in my area a real leafy
Light green bud that smelled like an ammonia to cat piss it burn the shit out of your nose
Now other guys were talking about cat pisses that I've never seen but I know exist because they're talking about it
So I can't get in a fight with him over the fact that my cat piss was different than their cat piss
All I can do is get in a discussion with them over whether or not they all are cat pisses, right?
we can't get in a fight that one's not if somebody knew it for ten years and it is and
If I didn't know it doesn't mean it isn't
We got to get over that shit. We got to get over our own egos with the plant that plant tells us
specifically
without a doubt what it is if we want to do a
Chemo bar test on it and find out what's coming back from that plant. That's what it is
That's what we need to do find out what sour diesel offers find out what traits are in it find out what markers are
Homozygous which ones are heterozygous and we got to quit fucking around with what we think it is
There's too much of it
I've thought a plant was something for
Years and then I find out it's something else because some dude didn't want to tell everybody the truth about the plant
He wanted to hoard it and try to sell it
So he gives it to someone that tells him it's this and for ten years everyone's growing a plant
They thought it was this because no one did the research on whether or not it was that plant
They just took one guy's word for it and then out of nowhere
He decides he's gonna tell him the truth about it, and now he bastardizes both of them
Because of a lie that he made ten years ago
Like what do we believe do we keep believing the stories that everyone passes or do we believe the science of the plant?
Like tomato guys out there aren't giving each other
Cherokee tomatoes and one of them's this big and one of them's this big right you get a Cherokee tomato
It's a fucking Cherokee tomato if we get an heirloom tomato. It's an heirloom tomato. It's not what he remembered it to be
It's still that damn tomato. It's been 150 years and you can buy a tomato
That's the exact same tomato
But we got clones floating around that don't look alike that don't smoke alike and don't smell alike and they all got the same name
There's the problems with us not the plant like we fucked it up. We all fucked it up
We wanted to have sour diesel or we wanted to have cookies, so we'd lied about it
And that's how the shit got out there. It's too much of it. Why don't we decide to show the plant more respect?
She's healing everything about us. She can feed us. She can close this she can warm us
She can keep us from being in pain while we die so why lie about it
Just so we can make nine fucking dollars while we're we're playing the game. I don't understand it
It doesn't make sense we can all come to a conclusion that something is something and
That there's another one also like how many blueberries are out there. There's tons of them. There's not one
He was on a roll
I'm assuming is I'm assuming his phone died
All right Trevor
Back
I was gonna make Trevor talk. I don't know what happened. I just fell out. Sorry guys. It was telling me to shut up
Someone was asking me about Bodhi do you have a relationship with Bodhi? I do not know him personally no
Talk to him at cups, but I don't know him personally no
I respect him 100%
But who's who's doing some work that you find it I mean oh
man, there's all kind of you find interesting and then how are you kind of
Like is it visual on Instagram
Are you actually like are people sending you stuff or you smoking other people's stuff or well?
I have there's a few of my friends like that like
my buddy pistol positive
He's a cat that I highly admire his breeding is a friend of mine. I've known for
Almost a decade now. We've went to a lot of cups together
He does a lot of breeding he offers a lot of killer crosses to people
He's putting a lot of f1s out there
So people have options to just pick something that will fit into their
Wheelhouse instead of trying like a lot of people are trying to replicate a Colombian or a tie or something
he's out there offering a lot of people different f1s with
All kinds of different turpentine profiles you got guys like
Eclectic elegance he does a lot of killer of reading a lot these are newer guys
So I'll bring up a lot of the newer cats because we are part of the older guys that we all already
Look to and and admire so like you got Red Skiers seed company
there's a tons of guys out there that are doing a lot of work that a lot of people don't know about because they're
They're just watching the big breeders out there because everybody's on the hype train
They hear about something to read about it in a magazine, so they just want to get their hands on it
I'm not gonna knock any strain that might be in the spotlight because all cannabis to me is beautiful
but I think that there's just
Way too many folks out there that are overlooking the small breeder that might have something that could just
Fit right into that fucking key slot that you're looking to feel man because we all know cannabis is a key to our
Cannabis receptors in our body, and it does not all work the same for everyone
So we're not all the same padlock we all need a different key to open up the receptors
For us to feel right so you're gonna have to try all kinds of cannabis right and you're not gonna be able to do that
if you're only looking to the lines that are in the books that everyone's reading about like
Cookies and the scotties and all these brand new lines that are out there that everyone reads about they want to put it in their
Garden they want to grow it they want to smoke it
And then it has no novelty anymore because everybody's smoking it and now all you end up with is the
The mids of that shit cuz how many people are really growing the best like how many times have each of us grown the best?
Herb we could ever grow we're not doing it every time I guarantee
Like I'd be lucky if one out of four my grows ends up exactly like I wanted it to in flower
You know the only time I'm getting my shit locked down 100% is when I'm trying to breed. I'm in there
I'm in there so much the plants are telling me to leave in flower
We are setting up drip lines and trying to go on vacation and shit
And that's how you end up with just growing some average-ass herb that has no flavor
And you're out there looking for the next best thing and it's out there
You got like I said all these cats pistol positive eclectic elegance red skier who else are we gonna talk about man?
There's so many people on here um
Let me let me just whip this up. I made a list the other day
I was gonna tell everybody about where did I put that thing?
All the old guy like Doc Ray was on here that was awesome to listen to talk
Listen to anyone that's willing to go out in public and speak to you about what they're doing
Don't listen to anyone that's trying to tell you that what they do has any kind of
That there's a secret to it there is no secret to what we're doing other than we're doing it
We're out here actually doing it one of you guys out
There's gonna be the next best breeder and it all it takes is for you to fucking do it
Put two seeds together that two other guys haven't and you're gonna find something special that we've all been looking for
Quit searching for scum ever you're not enough. You're smart enough
And people like you
That's what I say just
Give it a try man throw the pollen on the plant plant those seeds find out that you could do it
There's nothing to making polyhybrid seeds man if you unless you want to try to make true breeding lines
There's nothing to making polyhybrids other than to do it man get yourself a tent and get yourself a reason get yourself a light
And start doing it for real
So Tyler wants to know some old and Hayes I guess would be one of them, but some old-school genetics
That you'd like to grow or play with
I'm an Afghani junkie right I got I've been busted twice in my family and the first time they took the best weed
I've ever had in my life. We used to have an Afghani called we called it eggplant
It tasted like sulfur and rotten eggs
It was the nastiest tasting herb you ever fucking put in your mouth
But you you couldn't stop smoking it other than the fact that it laid you the fuck out
And then you'd have to finish, but like the cops took that plant from us. It was the best
I've ever had in my life. I've chased that plant for my whole life the closest profile to it that I've had in high was
the oil spill from mean gene when he gave it to me in
2015 he gave me an ounce of that shit, and that was some of the best herb
I've smoked in the last 10 years right there besides that let's see the Colombian gold
We used to grow back in the 80s was awesome
My Hayes you want to know about old shit my Hayes right here my Hayes for days, that's old-school herb
That's herb that's gonna track all the way back to the 60s man the Punta Rojo
Colombian
That's in there that stuff. It's got a soaring high for you the type
You know that comes out of there that stuff will destroy you
All those herbs are killer
When you ask old school though kind of got to ask like what is old school to them?
Do they think skunks old school, or do they think?
Nl5 Hayes is old school
What what time period are we talking about there's so many different killer lines out there?
Ak-47 the nl5 the Neville's Hayes is
The old blueberry lines from the early years there's so much killer work out there from guys that did so much stuff
but everybody talks about just like
very
Very small to what there's so much
Cannabis out there, and we're only talking about this one pocket of stuff right here
I don't
It's crazy there's some guy like
What's his name?
The guy that doing freak show why can't I get his name out of my head?
Yeah, cannabis research those guys. They're playing with cannabis like no one else wants to do right now
Everybody's trying to get the highest THC and they're just just to clarify
Yeah, the dad what's his name Jordan?
Yeah, yeah, but what they're breeding with there is completely different than what other people are doing so to some people what they're seeing in
There is just an ancient representation of cannabis popping out of there
It's an adivisit trace that came out of there, so you're seeing traits that weren't available in the two parents
But it is available in the older lines from there
So in a way that's is an old strain of cannabis what what came out of there the phenotypes expressed are
Older cannabis you're getting stuff that no one else is growing so for me. That's that's killer
Yeah, I got a few here. I'm reading here after amnesia Hayes
For me amnesia Hayes is an old one after could be a who's gonna go back 35 years
Blueberries old school sour diesel those are going back 30 years
That's what I'm trying to see to see to everybody old schools different time period somebody that was born in 2000 thinks
Roadkill skunks old school weed from the 90s and a guy that's my age thinks roadkill skunk from the 70s is old so
There's different. There's just different lines
There's some good things. They've just been dropped by some people
Farmer Joe just posted East Coast originals on Instagram and farmer Joe
He's dropping a black rose at 12 that was Keith line
Yeah, he's Robin's of line that's been maintained like Keith. I think dropped it like f7 or f8
Yeah, but the black rose
Yeah, he's got that it like
f12 now
That looks like a good old school thing that's dropping and is available right now
Gold Coast genetics is out there. He's got the vintage Afghani that's
Brotherhood of eternal love
Afghani line
Mr. Bob hemp Hill and
Hannah Humboldt did a seed increase off of that and had some phenos and I said that I grew some myself and
That vintage Afghani that he's got is really really nice
There's like a lime gas sort of you know. There's a great pheno
There's a great pheno and
It's just nice mellow like classic old-school 80s head stash you know
Crickets and cicadas is now mr.. Bob hemp Hill
Hannah Humboldt seed company they used to be with coastal seeds if you can find
Kleksis I see you were looking for Panama red
I know that there was some Panama red that got dropped by them back in the day
I got seeds of that I've handed out some seeds from the that line other people have
Made some of those seeds available that Panama red is definitely out there
Masonic's got it right now
He's got a mom kind of it that he's been keeping alive
And he's thrown cuts around all over LA so if you're in the LA area hit up Masonic you can get that Panama red
J2 can is also doing some pretty cool old-school work lots of he's got the vintage
Vietnamese black I mean
Lots of really really cool old-school
Sativa or narrow leaf drug lines and also broad leaf drug
He's got some old Northern Lights lines. I think it's from the Bodhi Northern Lights 5 which is a
BCSC
Northern Lights line that's been maintained. That's the Northern Lights 5 from up there
Yeah, a seeds also definitely has their Panama red that's out there and
so there's
There are old-school lines. You can either get the
Western maintained heirloom varieties
They seem to be coming back in fashion
You know, mr. Bob Hemphill is really somebody who's like, yeah, he's going back to the classics of the 80s and 90s and kind of
All that shit that we grew up with
Roseville kid I saw you on here
He rocks lots of lots of classic lines. Definitely
I
Think he's got a
He rocks lots of lots of classic lines definitely
Definitely has an eye for the classics. So if you follow him on Instagram, you're gonna see lots of different interesting old stuff
So, yeah, there's also there's a number of cool cats up in
And I mean you've got that a that Roberts Creek Congo, right I think yeah, I've got the Roberts Creek Congo, that's what yeah
Well, it's right here. I've got a Congo cut right here in front of me
Yeah, so I mean I I'm I think over the last few years really there's been
Resurgence of old-school lines
Neville's passing brought a lot of people a lot of nostalgia and a lot of people digging into their vaults
Finding old things that they've been holding on to and starting them up
and
Just the fact that a lot of people recognize that this thing is like, you know, there's a limited time frame on when seeds
They're still viable. And so if you're digging into your vault to pick something out, that's 10 or 20 years old, you know
sure your fingers crossed on some of those germinations and
You've had the reemerge different old-school cats. It's really been it's been cool to see
The Northern Lights story coming out all of that stuff has
It's it
as much as we complain about the
like polyhybrids as much as we complain about the you know
Sort of blandness of the recreational commercial market
There's definitely a lot going on in terms of breeding and in terms of preservation work within like
You know, I mean even Instagram kind of sucks at the moment in terms of like content, but it's nice to see
cats who are actually maintaining some of these older lines and maintaining a
Ongoing discussion about that on a whole different range of things be it the heirlooms be it
The land races or whatever people want to call them now. I
think that that is something that is
It's making it so that as much of a sort of
Market driven
Commercialization is going on in the
recreational market
There's still a vibrant sort of community of cannabis growers and enthusiasts and people who have been doing this for decades
who are keeping all of these older lines around and
The fact that we're engaging in this discussion and have been engaging in it for a number of years is a good thing
So, you know keep asking keep looking and seeking out
Older genetics and heirloom varieties that we've maintained over the years
To the extent that you can seek out land race varieties and do open pollination preservation runs of those
It's not gonna it's not perfect. It's it's
Totally suboptimal to do a small seed increase or a small population seed increase, but it's better than nothing and
That's kind of where we're at right now. We need to be banking resources and
really trying to preserve these land race and heirloom genetics and
moving forward with this because you know
With corn or with every other commodity crop that has been touched by agriculture
we've seen the loss of agricultural crop biodiversity and
That's something that we want to stave off and we want to limit as much as we can
so the way we do that is by educating ourself and
Seeking out these types of genetics and passing them around and making sure people have access to them
So those are all big things that we need to be doing
So those are all different people everybody I just named is doing something to
You know further that sort of work and even if I disagree with them like the real seed company
Like I very much disagree with the dudes
take on
Terminology and science and you know
the way that he wrote his
arguments, but
He's doing good work in terms of making land race genetics available to people and we wouldn't be able to get a lot of the
Genetics that we've gotten access to were it not for his work over the last decade plus so, you know
Props to him and props to everybody else doing that work. What do you both want to talk about?
definition of land race
Says you're here and he's not
I mean if people are at all interested in it, I've posted a lot and
They can go on a real seed companies Instagram. See what he said go on to my Instagram. See what I've said. I
believe that the way that the term is used in
Plants and
specifically
The way that it's used in the cannabis community be it by cannabis scholars or by the broader cannabis community
dates back to the 1890s and
international conservation discourse when the term was first used essentially by a
group of people in the forestry like
industry essentially and different
Countries got together and it was proposed as a topic of discussion. Like hey, there are these things that we
Their
Plants that have their origins in different areas and they're valuable. So should we start to preserve them?
They didn't actually have the discussion at the 1890s
Conference that they were holding they tabled it for later. It was brought up again in 1906 again
It was tabled in 1927. It was finally brought up and the international community was like, yeah, we should consider
Conserving
Land-race populations and if you look at the usage from the 1890s all the way up to the present
It's been pretty consistent
that's what it's referred to in the 1930s a
Particular breed of pigs got defined as land race
Like the breed of Danish pigs is called land race pigs
big capital L proper noun
But otherwise aside from that derivation in to Danish pig breeding
The terms had a consistent usage it's referred to plants or animals that are from a particular area and
That are unique and distinct to their place of origin
There have been a lot of different variations on that
There have been additions and subtractions to that definition, but that's the through line from the 1890s
and well, the first definition was in 1908 all the way to the present and
in the cannabis community
Typically when people are talking about land race genetics, they're talking about the necessity of
identifying locating and maintaining and preserving
Plants from particular places of origin where it's traditionally been cultivated or where it's literally like places of origin
You know like people like Panama red granted Panama red is not a place of origin
But cannabis has been grown in Panama for generations long enough to become a specific
ecotype that is divergent from other ecotypes and
so
When people are speaking about it, nobody's speaking about it in terms of racist eugenic theory or
the sort of historical antecedents
There's just not really any good
Literature or evidence to support that that's not to say that plant breeders in
the early days weren't
by and large eugenicist because pretty much everybody from
Francis Galton and all of the early Darwinists who believed in evolutionary theory to most
You know
Eugenics was a very popular idea from the from Darwin
up until the Nazis when it got a
very bad rap and legitimately so
and so
there are definitely
Antecedents in the breeding community like if you look up plant breeding and Nazis
like you can find papers and
academic plant breeders in Nazi Germany
absolutely
collaborated with the Nazis and worked with the Nazis in the concentration camps and
it is a
terrible legacy and a lot of other people like RA Fisher and
see you all right and other
theoreticians in
population genetics were also eugenicist and
that is a part of their legacy that is a fact and
it's definitely something that we need to be aware of and conscious of and
Not just take their theories
You know
You know
there's the theoretical insights that they have that have been proven and demonstrated true through empirical science and
then there are the racist ideologies that they ascribe to and
You know those two things are to the degree that we acknowledge them and can separate them out
You know we should and so that's
Okay, no Nazis and Baron Monsanto and yeah, there's a lot of
Lot of history there in terms of racism and
early plant breeding and early, you know genetics theory
Well, that was uplifting yeah
But you can also
concluding that
You can say land race without being concerned about
You're perpetuating Nazism because the terms are
Simply not connected. There is no historical connection
The term is rooted in international conservation discourse
it's
fundamental to the
Convention on biological diversity
It's the framework through which
We're literally trying to save biodiversity on the planet
And so when an academic like McPart or academics like John McPartland and Ernest Small say that
land races in
Central Asia and South Asia are critically endangered and facing extermination and we need to
characterize them and
Do everything to preserve them in situ and exit you
There locally or
In seed ranks elsewhere
That's essentially a call to action that fits within a
150 years of conservation discourse
So
On a different topic
Tony
What uh what when you're growing for flower? Can you talk about your?
Can you talk about your
kind of grow media and then
Well, I use what I call my DDA soil mix. I build my own soil
There's a video of it on YouTube on my youtube channel. I walk people through every
every last amendment that I put in there from
Whatever it is you could use now everyone the videos from 2011
So there's a lot of inputs in there that today some people may not want to use like back guanos
Some people don't like using blood meal
There are different inputs that you can replace like there's the nitrogen can come from different sources
It doesn't have to be blood meal or feather meal or Karanja meal or what have you?
I try to tell people to try to locate
Whatever's closest to them if they're going to start building a soil
When you're building soil you're trying to use the smallest carbon footprint as possible
Which means don't get in your car unless you fucking have to
So if you're gonna get in the vehicle try to make the stop at one place all the time
So there's a list of amendments on there. You don't have to use all those amendments. I like to use a
lot of
Calcium based amendments when I have my soul mix going so there's gonna be
Crab meal shrimp meal there's fish meal in there got different form of bone meal like a fish bone meal
I'll use a collodial rock dust. I like to have green sand. I'll have
Activated charcoal in there. There's gonna be a small amount of
Alfalfa if you can get your hand on spent barley from like a beer when they're making beer and shit that shit's
Awesome in there put holes
Then you can start with a peat
Cocoa, you can go and get your own soil is medium if you want whatever you want to start with
Just try to build up the soil so that you've got an available
Nutrition in that soil and then from there you're gonna want to build up a very good
Microbial life in that soil before you start to grow so a lot of people fill the pot up throw a plan in and grow
I recommend you build the soil up let that stuff go through a cycle of what we call cooking
So you're gonna want it to get to about 210 degrees
This is gonna allow the fungi and the bacteria to start to become active in the soil
Once that happens, I like to put that in the beds or or the pots that I'm gonna use
I will fill those with my chosen top dress mixture. I'll grow a top dress in there without plants once
Cycling back into it and then I'll run my plants through that when I'm growing organically
It's gonna allow my plants to have
available
Nutrition because of the amount of enzymatic action that's gonna be in that soil the amount of humates that are gonna be starting to build
Up in there. I'll add worms to that that way the worms are processing what's in there
That's what I'm doing indoor outdoor. I like to do something different
I'll I pretty much turn
The beds that like now I can only get to a certain percentage of my beds because I'm in a wheelchair
But I used to be able to do this in all my beds. It basically became
Giant worm bins
so I'd go get as many worms and throw them in every one of those pots and
From the end of harvest until the beginning of the next year. I'm putting in my
scrap vegetables into those pots
Everything that's not a meat or like a solid bone
Pretty much goes in there and I let the worms break all that stuff down. I grow tomato plants
I throw all the extra tomatoes in there. I've got prickly pears out here the no palace
I'll take the fruit from the no palace when it's done flowering and some of those wind up into those pots
And I let all that get processed down and before I go and plant into those
Take all the soil and sift all the worms out
I leave the cocoons in the soil from the worms this allows more
Worms to populate those pots and then all those worms I take and put into worms means that's what I've been using for years
so I take my soil and
Just recycle it
So every time I have an indoor room if there was no pest problem or no pathogen problem that soil is moved
Outside to be part of the outside
So and then I would have a backup soil that was always getting rotated into position for the new one
I was pretty much a slave to busting my ass like I never wanted to do shit the easy way I was always
Just doing too much work
There's a lot easier way if you're you can do this synthetically and go on a vacation in
15 years I left my house four times and so fucking and in those four times
I think it was a total of seven days in 15 years
All those like don't become a slave to the plant like I did. There's there's different ways to do it
Emerald cups of four emerald cups and one
Wonderland series for mr.. Kevin Jodery he got me out of my fucking hole and let me got me up to his spot
Other than that I went to two high times cup
But they were close enough for me to drive and come home like I never left my plants for more than 24 hours until
2014 and from 2004 to 2014 I literally never left this place
more than
Like a 10-hour work shift I came straight home and my plants were my first priority no matter what and
I
Suffered for it in the long run
But the plants made it fucking pretty damn good until I lost part of my body and then that no one was there to water
them so shit out of luck I
Should have set up that automated watering system earlier
Real
I was trying to read this here
Fully self-automated man. Yeah, I wish I did that for the like when I ran the club
I was running 10 different gardens and all gardens, but mine were fully automated like the owners garden
I don't think that dude ever went in there other than to cut the plants down
Fucking that's it like I built the room. I set the room up
I brought the plants over and put them in position. I put the drip lines in and shit
I fucking set the timers
Fucking told the dude that if the fucking lights go off
Just call me and like I'd never get a call like that because I said the shit up right I wasn't fucking around
So I'd set up his garden his spot. I set up all the fucking clone rooms
I set up two dudes that were working there
They had rooms going like I said everybody up and everybody's room died
But my room like it's odd everybody that had automated rooms like could not keep a plant alive dudes would go to Vegas
And come back and everything's dead be like bone you got more clones
We got to put more shit in the room, and I'm like you know I got clones
But like I just gave you 72 clones two weeks ago. They're all dead
I go man. We fucking went to Vegas and humble had a birthday party
I'm like man you guys like this is the business. This is what we do
We we sell cannabis to patients if we don't have herb to sell to people we have to buy it and now we're broke as
The fuck they don't you guys understand business like what is wrong with you guys?
And we ended up having to get rid of them two motherfuckers because they just did not know what the fuck
They were doing besides party if they like telling people they were growing weed
They never grew a bud in their life not one time they tried
But it was all automated so they'd go in there. They didn't even know how to set up the timer
So if it went off they couldn't fix it
They didn't know how to clean out calcium out of a fucking a drip line by running some enzymes through there fucking every few cycles
Like they just didn't know what to do man the air conditioning
They got it set as low as they could put it on and that's it no matter what like we don't give a shit
We ain't going in there. We just want to cool. I'm like what the fuck is wrong with you guys man. Just crazy shit
I've seen so many
Terrible rooms that were automated that I just never would do that myself
Even though I set them up everywhere everywhere, but here
everywhere
And I don't knock them they work if you if you understand them, but if if you rely on
Plastic pieces to do what you should be doing in your garden
It's gonna fail no matter what like you wouldn't have went in there and watered hand watered anyway, so
Like why are they clogged up?
Why are only three plants getting fucking water and shit like how many fucking
How many times have I seen a reservoir overfill and flood somebody's house?
Or the rental property I was like nah we can't do that man. Can you that?
Those are all reasons why I always went to organic
that and
Here's the number one reason check this out you guys won't believe this probably most people didn't when I first shared this online
When I worked at the club
One day the owners wife decides to let her brother
Bring in a hundred cuts and he brings in a hundred cuts and since I'm the clone, dude
I'm supposed to put them on the shelf
He's got them all in one gallon bags those plastic white bags that you can buy at the hydro store
I'm grabbing them and taking them out of the box and putting them on the shelf
Takes me 20 minutes to unload a hundred of them and put them in order on the shelves as
I'm getting done and cleaning up the room. I look at my hands and my hands are bleeding
They're just covered in blood coming out of all the pores. I ended up acquiring. What's called terminal epidural
Necrosis syndrome from touching cannabis plants that the dude was spraying avid
Eagle 20 he ran a soulful burner 24 hours a day
The dude was spraying shit on there
He wouldn't even tell us that he was doing because once my hand started blending I ended up in the emergency room
my buddy's mom was the ER nurse there and
She ends up being the one that tells me what's happening and when my boss hears this shit
He decides he's gonna fire me and tell everybody
Some crazy shit about me because he doesn't want anyone to find out that I got poisoned by plants in his shop
so I ended up being a dude that used to run synthetics and all this shit and
Became a guy that learned everything I could about organics because I was afraid of the chemicals
That motherfuckers were selling in bottles and shit, so I went from a dude that trusted
Anything that I could get at the hydro store to a dude that would I don't want nothing from there if I don't have
To go there, and I know it's the far side of shit
But when you end up acquiring a just fucking a disease that stays with you for the rest of your life
It's part of the reason why I lost my leg and why I had such a bad
infection in my body
I
Got fucking hammered from this dude
Using whatever chemical he could to try to keep his plants alive in a room so he could sell them to people for
$25 a gram once he harvested him
Only because other people said he was a good dude and his brother fucking owned the club was he able to do this if it?
Would have been the old streets. He got his ass beat if it had been today
He would have been shut down
And it the only reason we got to the period we're in now where they test for these things is because people like me
Ended up getting diseases from people like him, and if we don't share this shit if we don't quit hiding
fucking like everybody on Instagram
That's afraid that they're in a fucking an illegal state and doesn't want to show a picture of a plant because they think the police
Are staring at him
You guys are the reason guys like that dude
Spray shit on their plants to sell fucking weed to anybody
Because you're all still too fucking scared to be truthful about this plant being the best medicine on earth
But when used incorrectly
Treated disrespectfully it can turn a dude who gave us whole life to the plant
into a dying human being guys, so
I'm sorry
For real you got a fucking treat the plant better than we do we got to help each other out
We got to quit being disrespectful to each other because we can make an extra penny of a plant
You're gonna end up turning people into people like me
People that are dying man, I'm like this is why I do this shit, and that's why I say this
You got to be better than you were yesterday. You don't have to be perfect, but you can't keep being okay with
And I'm just gonna make base indica and sativa right there's something better out there than that we got to be better
Because the future relies on it man either that or we're all gonna be stuck on stupid forever
Until we can't do nothing I can't do nothing about it no more so I got to tell my story so other people
Know not to do it the way I did it
You know
I'm sorry for that but
For real it's real. I shared this shit on Facebook in
2010 and they laughed at me it took me years of sharing information about the plant
Before people realized what I was saying was true before they're like you know what you could actually get someone sick
from them touching cannabis
Because of what we did to it while we were trying not to fucking grow it where we got the whole room automated
We're spraying it with avid we're doing whatever we can to keep every fucking living critter out of the room
Because we're afraid of farming
Like instead of teaching someone how to handle a bug with another bug
We teach them how to fucking spray a chemical on that plant that if you put your hand in the bottle
Might kill one out of ten people
Like I don't understand that part of the plant
What I said that avid Eagle 20. I'm allergic to sulfur
I didn't know I found out I was only get sulfur from that actual incident
I'm highly allergic to sulfur, but what happened is if you research that disease
It's
One chemical it could have been all of them mixed together. They don't know no one could tell me all I know is I ended up
With a disease now that like I can't touch bleach without bleeding
If there's sulfur like if I go to a restaurant and they fumigated the night before I'm gonna get sick, right?
I can't I can't fucking be in there
so like there's different foods and foods are being handled a specific way and
And somebody put a cleaner on the table, and then they they made my food on that table
I'm gonna get sick
It's it's and it all goes back to the incident of me picking up a hundred plants off of this dudes
Who brought him in so he could make an extra fucking hundred bucks off of people because they're like we need teens
So he's like I got teens
So he bought plants in to sell for $25 a piece and they gave me a disease that I'll have till I'm dead
Right
And it all came from nobody willing to talk to someone else about the plant
I had spent two months in there trying to teach my boss
About why we couldn't accept shit from certain people because of the chemicals that were being sprayed on the plant
So I started printing out paperwork from peer-reviewed
Scientific literature so that he wasn't just hearing it for me or reading it out of high times or some shit
he was getting a science so I could prove it to him, and he just kept throwing the shit in the paper and
Three months later. I end up with a fucking disease in his club and the dude freaked out fired me
Told everyone that I was a drug addict, and then what happened is he ended up losing his club three months later
He ended up trying to kill some dude in the street because literally they were drug addicts
I was the only like you couldn't be a drug addict and do what the fuck I was doing
I was growing cannabis for dying sick people. I wasn't a book and trying to be no damn drugs
I mean there's other there's another lady. What's her name um she was a nun that Mickey used to write about her
Man, what was her name?
Nun Mary I think that was her name
She got she got the same disease. I got and they believe she got it from trimming cannabis that had been sprayed with avid
She they wrote about her and treating yourself magazine
um
They couldn't get a hundred percent to cannabis
but after I read the stories of multiple people like myself and her and I've seen a
Few kids that came in my shop that had
Serious reactions to sulfur one kid literally fucking was in a coma for almost six weeks from burning sulfur in his house
He almost killed hisself and shit
I don't know if he ended up with the same disease or not. I never seen the kid again
I just know he ended up getting out of the hospital with my boss told me he wasn't the same and shit
He was a guy that used to be a member of our club. I just never seen him again after I heard he'd
fucking almost died from sulfur burns and
the dead disease if you look it up like
Like two people a year there are diagnosed with this at the time
I got it and there were usually females like men don't get it from what I've read about and
Yeah, I end up getting something from a plant that
Nobody ever would have thought about like I didn't get a harsh too long. I didn't burn myself from fucking dabbing
I didn't fucking trip and fall smoking because I was too high I touched a plant that
Some dude decided I'll spray whatever the fuck I could
That dude had sprayed raid on his plants before to try to get rid of spider mites like he was spraying
Anything on his fucking plants the dude?
Here's the craziest part that need used to sell hash to my club
And one day he comes in telling me that
Me and my boss the boss is asking him. Why his hash is molded and the guys like what do you mean?
My hash is moldy. He's like you brought hash in yesterday, and today. It's moldy dude. What's up Russ?
That's that's his brother-in-law. He's telling him. Why is it moldy like no one else hashes moldy
He's like you know dude sometimes when you're making hash you your hands will get cut by the ice and you're bleeding in the hash
So he's trying to tell us that he got blood and hash and that's probably why the shit started molding
Like crazy shit from this dude man after that that's when the boss finally decided
He wasn't even gonna let the dude in his club no more. I'm like bro. You gotta be bleeding in your shit
Spraying chemicals on the buds
What the fuck are you doing dude just cuz your wife says he's got a sell shit here
I'm like if you ain't gonna smoke it. Why are we selling like I'm not gonna sell this shit to nobody no more
That's what ended up being part of
What went like everything that went down at the club at the very end and shit
I've been trying to look out for the patients and these motherfuckers are just trying to pay the mortgage, and that's where cannabis
Goes bad when it's your only means of money, and you rely on it like it
Like it's your pimp
Ain't nothing good gonna come from you're gonna hurt people
It's bad, it's just bad man. There's too much of it. That's why we got people stealing
You got people trying to shoot at someone to steal the crop all over a plant because it's worth too much damn money
Yeah, I've
I've been told lots of stories about kind of
well-respected people in the cannabis community or like high times Hall of Famers
Who have
Sprayed some toxic shit on their plan. I'm gonna show you a picture of my hands from that day I
Have a picture from that day of my hands
After I watched him repeatedly once I'll find it here do you text it to me, and I'll throw it up
Yeah, I sent you an article Peter you threw it up there for a second
It was published in our Shaughnessy's back in 2004 and it was about
Jane will why Rick that's
Yeah, she owned a club the Hayward patient Resource Center down in a word and
She was also like Dennis Perron's and a bunch of other clubs like main trimmer processor
Yeah, started her own club and I used to sell her with that club tons of cannabis and
She also
was exposed to lots of avid and
attributed a neurological disease that she contracted to avid and she died in
quick succession like she
she started to have neurological damage and
Issues arising and within a year she had passed away
and yeah, there's there's a write-up in our Shaughnessy's and
It's definitely
This is a picture of my hands after I came out of the ER all those red dots you guys are seeing are where my
pores were just pouring out blood and
basically like the fluid that's in the cells of your skin my
What happens with that disease is it yet tries to get rid of your skin
it's trying to basically break away the cells from your body and
It's trying to reject itself and I had an instantaneous reaction of these plants like within 20 minutes
I didn't even notice my hands were bleeding
I went in to go offer some herb to one of our patients and she goes what's wrong with you?
And I'm like, what do you mean?
What's wrong with me and she's all your hands are covered in blood like there was micro dots
It wasn't like I was like a open wound
each one of these just had like like pinheads of blood all over my hands and I had to leave the club because they just
Would not stop and I ended up in the hospital. I went to my buddy's mom's house
She's the ER nurse and she's like you got to go to the hospital. You've got that's Steven Johnson syndrome
That's the other name. They call it Steven's oxygen syndrome
he was the like the first person that got it and they couldn't figure out what was happening and he used to work in a
Office building and they fumigated above the floor above him and when he came to work the next day
I guess when they turned on the
the air system the fumes end up in his office and he has an instantaneous reaction to where like
He looks like he got burnt in a fire
Like that's what they they take you in and try to scrub the skin off your body. They treat you like a burn victim
that's the treatment for this disease when they when they find people and you're supposed to
Report it. This disease is so rare. It has its own
Classification of lawyers that deal with the lawsuits with this disease. It's not some basic bullshit like the flu
It's not chicken pox. I didn't twist my ankle
This is real shit like and it came from cannabis people don't understand how it happened
I was a healthy motherfucker before I had never I don't remember being sick before this and then all of a sudden I
Turned into a sick sick-ass deep after 2010 when this happened
No, it happened in
2011 because I leave the club in March of 2012. I
Become a sick. I so sickly. I lost my body man. I literally had to have my leg amputated
I've had multiple parts of my body removed not just my leg and it all goes back to that
Incident to where my body has such a reaction to shit that I'm I'm the outlier what we're talking about cannabis
So like I talked about freak show earlier
I'm that mutated plant that most people are gonna throw away because I'm not gonna breathe true. I'm too damn sensitive
I'm gonna homo for that and week fucking six
I found this shit out because the fucking somebody gave me a tainted fucking plant and
Then what happened is the dude didn't want to come clean with it for like two weeks. He wouldn't tell nobody nothing
He thought it was just gonna go away. It had to be he told me it was from me making hash
Yes, I used to make like three pounds of hash a week. I'm like dude you wear gloves. I'm not bleeding in my hash
What the fuck are you talking about?
Dude, nobody bleeds in hash and it turns out the dude had hepatitis
This cat was bleeding because his body was breaking down and his pores were allowing that's fluid of his body out
This sick-ass dude was making hash and selling it to multiple clubs in our town
He had hepatitis and he was bleeding in the hash and these buds was so bad
They ended up getting my ass sick, right?
And then so nobody in town would find this shit out
They told everyone in town stories about me like I was gonna go rat on everybody
I was trying to stay the fuck alive and here's what saved me my mom's topical rub. She used to make a rub out of
This oil that we used to make out of multiple different nut oils that we used to infuse
With bubble hash that I used to make from my space cush that I made for years
I made this shit for years and I used to give it to seniors for free and give it to the veterans
For PTSD and the kids used to use it at the goddamn fucking
their fucking massage parties that I told you about earlier and I went home and when I read about that shit and I found out
That one of the only treatments they'd ever used on it was cannabis oil and I slathered my body. I'm talking slathered
I took a pint of that shit and rubbed it all over me and the next day I did it again
And I rubbed myself for two weeks with that until my hands quit bleeding
That's the only thing that I think saved my life was fucking cannabis oil
Other than that, I believe I was about to fucking die from fucking touching cannabis plants man
Fucking teen veg plants that some dude spraying with bullshit, man. It's crazy
Yeah, I'm not like somebody says my story keeps getting worse
The worst shit I've ever seen has came from cannabis, but the best shit I ever saw also came from cannabis
That's what I say. We got to be more respectful of the plant
I know I sound like I'm full of shit, but I'm telling you the truth man
My story is documented when I say that I posted pictures since it happened
I've told the story since day one and like people didn't want to believe me and then I die and
And then we start talking about it in the open on forums that if you spray this shit on a plant it's bad
Right everyone starts telling everyone don't use avid and that's why we quit using avid because people like me started talking about it
I'm not the only one
Hundreds and thousands of people telling you don't use this shit on your plant quit using avid
Don't go use hot shots looking pest repellents in your room. They cause fumes
Don't go use hot shots looking pest repellents in your room
They cause fucking cancer like there's products out there that you shouldn't be using
That your homie told you works, and you homie don't give a shit if you smoke shit
He just sprayed on his plant like he don't give a fuck about you really if he's telling you that bullshit
And you don't care about yourself if you don't even double-check it like I didn't care enough about myself
To even go look to see if what I was putting on the plant might hurt me until I ended up with a terminal disease
From touching plants like now I have to be careful around everything
I can't I can't go to a restaurant and eat what everybody else eats
I can't go into an office building without finding out if it's been closed the last two days right I have to call them up
So did you guys fumigate this week is if they fumigated?
I can't risk going in there and being close to any kind of sulfur
You know if I go I used to consult everywhere
And now I can't go to a garden because you might have used
sulfur as a burner like you burn sulfur the day before and
You didn't tell me and I'm not supposed to be in that room for like up to 72 hours
Or I'm gonna have a reaction and I know this
But you don't want to tell me you burn sulfur because that means
I know that you probably had powdery mildew or some kind of pest and you just don't want to say it
Instead of going dude. How do I get rid of these pests when you first see them you hide it?
Spray shit on them, and then you tell all your friends
You're organic and then the dude like me smokes weed and fucking breaks out in hives at the fucking cup and shit
Everyone's like what's wrong with the sick boy? He smokes your meds homie. He smokes your meds
Like there's a better way to do it, and you don't have to be organic
There's pharmaceutical grade
Synthetics quit buying the shit that's been squeezed out of a tire and putting it on your plant
Quit telling your friend that you can use human excrement
The put peeing on your plants and shit like treat it with respect
Pretend this is food that you're gonna put in your baby's mouth
Would you give that shit to your baby as nutrients because if you wouldn't?
Why are you putting it on this this sacred plant a plant that I tell everyone it's our ancestor
We have receptors in our body for this plant. We don't have receptors for a tomato
We there's not a potato receptor in us
Like we've got multiple receptors and different tissues in our body our mother makes the cannabinoids when we're born even if she isn't smoking it
There's a reason that this plant and us evolved together
And there's a reason why it soothes all our aches and pains
There's a reason why it makes us happier than we thought we could be
There's a reason why it can feed us clothes it can even give us an income to continue to do that if we treat it
right
Teach someone else do it
Steve asked is there any are there any biological controls or pest methods that most people consider safe that
if you are sensitive to things that you'd
suggest not using
That depends on the person right like I don't want to bring up some brands
But there's there's a product out there that a lot of people use that has some
Some bacteria in it that a person like me that I cannot use it because if I spilled that on me
And I get like I have a colostomy bag. I'm gonna be real with people
There's a thin layer of an adhesive
Bandage keeping me from being killed by bacteria that can be carried in water right so if I
Say spill a mixture of that
So I put one tablespoon of that in a gallon of water
And I dump that on me and it gets past this I end up with that in my internal system
And now I got to go to the hospital so that's just me
But if you don't have that same problem as me then that's probably not gonna affect you and you could use that product
But for me to say if you have a compromised system is there something safe for to use I have to know what's wrong with
Your system. I can't tell you straight off hand that like it
It's okay for you to use brand X because it didn't hurt me. I really don't know what's wrong with you
I'm pretty jacked up human so like I'm real careful about everything I use I used to be a really organic dude
But now I cannot make any of the firm it's I used to make because the firm it's if they go bad
Or even when they're good if they pour on me. I'm fucking toast I
Can't I can't make large batches of soil because I can't get the soil all over me
I can only do a batch like I
Can do about seven cubic feet from my wheelchair safely if it gets bigger than that I risk getting too much dirt on me
Where I'm not gonna be able to clean myself fast enough to get that shit off of me. It's it's crazy
It's it's real hard and like with me with I can't be around so far. I can't be around bleach I
Found a couple nutrient lines that if they touch me
They have a reaction to where it's like battery acid that makes my skin start to fucking feel like it's bubbling and shit
So I don't fuck with those anymore, and then it all goes back to the me having this disease and stuff
So it's for me. It's hard to say that I always ask the person what what's wrong with you and even then
Like what's happened to me? I don't want to be the dude that says yeah
Go ahead and use that biological if you really got something wrong with you
You might want to read up on what's what it is. That's wrong with you like I can use
My control I could use Botanic Guard I can use I
Could use BT if I have to but like I said I can't make ferments because what's in a ferment
There's bacteria that starts to build in there if it starts to go anaerobic. I can't mess with it
I can't make like a kashi tea the anaerobic bacteria that can grow in there can have real bad effects on my body if they
They touch my um I have a distended bowel so it actually is outside of my body
That's that's that's part of the problem, so I end up having to be
Extremely careful with what I'm doing and how I do it
It's it's hard as hell to do what I'm doing, but I got to do it
That's why I tell everybody don't don't let the negativity in your life be the dictation of what it's gonna steer you in that
Don't let it be a steering wheel right it might be the left back tire
But you still got three fucking tires fully filled and the engines working so fucking keep on mashing forward and shit
Don't worry about that back tire till it falls off. We'll get another one
You can still move the vehicle with three tires, so don't anybody think I'm trying to be negative when I say this stuff to anybody
I'm 100% only telling this as
My experience with cannabis so
Yeah the lactobacillus
I I can use it, but I have to be careful. I don't want to mess around with it too much I
Don't make labs. I'd rather use em1 myself then fucking make a lab nowadays
I used to make labs all the time
But if I was gonna use something similar to that I would just go by
Em1 and put on gloves put on an overcoat and try to do what I could do
The real deal totally feels
That's fun
Yeah I
Appreciate that
No, I that's what I want people some to always tell me they hit me up DMs and say I'm being negative
I'm not trying to be negative guys. It's just my experience in life and with the plant. I'm a positive dude
I'm always looking forward. I don't I'm not dwelling on none of the bad in my life
I just think I just say it because it's it's real
so
That's all that's all I'm saying. I don't want no one to think I'm a negative cat I
Don't think you're negative
Let's see my GI tract yeah, I've got Crohn's disease ulcerative colitis. I've got a distended bowels
See someone asking a question here
Wheat fucks me. I never used to be gluten-free
I don't know what they did to me in the hospital
But I can't eat any kind of wheat if you try to feed me a vegetable
I'm gonna end up in the hospital. I can't process almost any kind of fiber anymore
Like I'm basically on a carnivore diet I
Fucked up man. I see some people asking some stuff
You can use white vinegar with soap on your pots
Oh, that's for someone else
Yeah, vinegar is gonna clean up a lot of stuff man vinegar is a killer stuff for cleaning
But it's not gonna disinfect if you want to disinfect you're gonna have to use some kind of a bleach in there
like 10%
Even better than alcohol alcohol is not gonna
Disinfect stuff if you're talking about like scissors or your cloning trays you're better off using a 10% bleach
That's something that like if I have to use bleach. I have to wear gloves that are coming up here
I have to make sure I have a shirt on that isn't cotton or something. I can't absorb water
I have to have some kind of overcoat and
That's just
It's hard for me. I'm out there scrubbing the shit out of stuff with soap and water now
I can't mess with any of the old stuff. I used to use or maybe an enzyme cleaner. You could use an enzyme cleaner
Enzymes aren't gonna be bad. I can use enzymes no problem I
See people talking about Crohn's Crohn's is bad, but let's ask some folks here
What kind of plants are you guys using for Crohn's like for me?
bubble could
deep chunk these are two that
I've always used for stomach issues
That's what I've used for breeding specifically
the bubble more for the MS and such but the deep chunk
specifically for
issues with my stomach
Let's see if what anyone else is here a
Lot of people tell me to eat mushrooms my body doesn't process them well, it's hard
I'm not sure if that yes, you have someone else who's
Mostly meat yeah, I'm autoimmune and on carnivore as well
I have to be so careful about what I use in my grow
Yeah, I think that that's kind of like, you know, what we're talking about is just
You know you have bell curves of
Human reactions to things and you're on one end but there you know
On that far end of the bell curve and I think it's interesting to hear kind of like what you react to whether it's like
I mean the first thing you were talking about was just merely touching the plant not smoking it
Right. Yeah
It's crazy. Just touching the plant and affected me that way man, and I I'm a guy that's been around cannabis my whole life
Like the first time I smoked herb I was like, oh, I'm gonna smoke herb
I've been smoking herb since I was eight every day of my life. I learned to clone cannabis when I was eight years old
I was taught how to take cuts and how to air layer on an Afghani plant so that we could take cuts and
Backpacks up to the patches up in Humboldt
when when they realized I was one of the kids I wasn't gonna tell everybody about the weed and
I wasn't getting stupid if I did get high because they'd catch me smoking
You know
My uncle's around here. They're not gonna go right on me. So they let me do my thing
but if like if I got high and didn't go to school or if I got high and started fucking hitting on other kids or
If I got high and started breaking shit, this would mean that I'm it's not the herb
It's me that needs to have some kind of action to help me control my actions, right?
So but instead I'm a dude that I would smoke herb and I'd get quiet and I'd be like, oh, I'm gonna smoke herb
So but instead i'ma do that. I would smoke herb and I'd get quieter and I'd hang out and listen
I'd fucking I'd do what you told me to do. I'd go to school and do everybody else's homework like fucking
That's I ended up as the valedictorian in elementary school fucking for doing everybody's homework
So in eighth grade i'm giving speeches and shit and i'm high as a motherfucker
Nobody even knows it like until we had just say no. Did anyone find out that?
Uh
Bone had weed and shit like the teachers didn't know I was high every damn day. I couldn't cope around
uh other people I've I had an issue of feeling like everyone was staring at me. I felt like I was doing something wrong
I just did not fit in without herb as soon as I smoked just a hit or two of herb
I could handle the rest of the day. I could go to school do everything man
And that just led to my whole life of using cannabis
As a coping method for myself, but I didn't realize what I was doing. I just thought I was getting high
I thought I was cheating the system like they were the grown-ups are letting me do it because i'm kind of cool
So I get to smoke my weed and until my grandfather passed away. Did I realize that?
Cannabis was a medicine and that's when I realized that I was using it for my own medicinal purposes my own
PTSD the fact my own ADHD I had different
Uh reasons why I was using cannabis, but when my grandfather screamed for it when he was dying
I knew other people could use cannabis as medicine
It wasn't just to get high because my gramps hated weed that dude hated he turned us in
He was the reason we got busted in fucking
1988 like he we left for vacation and he called the cops on us fucking
He didn't realize what he was doing because he was drunk. He didn't know they was going to show up and bust everybody
But fucking they come they bust us
But when he ends up dying when he comes back here in uh, 91
The last words he screams for besides telling my mom. She loves her is he screams for pot
and fucking that's what changed me from being a drunk and to being a dude that
Went from drinking and smoking to try to get away from everything
To use this plant to better myself instead of trying to hide from reality
So I thought cannabis was going to save me for the rest of my life and until I ran into that bad plant
And that one dude it wasn't a bad plant. It was a dude using the plant incorrectly until I ran into him
I didn't even know you could
Make cannabis be bad, right? I didn't know you could use it in the evil fucking way
I already always knew cannabis was nothing but a medicine
Like both times we got busted the court records both say that we were growing cannabis for medical use and this was before
Cannabis became legal in the state of california in 1996 as medical marijuana. So I got busted in
98 or 88 and we got busted at 91
Two different times and both times they find 12 plants at our house and we're using them
To help someone who's got cancer
Right, and they can't they can't deny it. My grandpa's face is falling off. I mean weighs 85 fucking pounds
The the judge can't deny it. So they give my mom a deferral
She ends up in jail for 90 days and
What happened when she gets out my grandpa dies 10 days later
And we didn't have no weed because the cops had took all of the buds
They took all the hash and all I have the seeds
I can't grow seeds quick enough because they're coming over here for fucking probation. I got nowhere I can do anything
So my grandfather's laying there screaming pot and shit
And the pothead ain't got no pot to give him and shit
So after that i'm like i'm gonna always have weed that's why i've made seeds so I started making these plants
So I got fucking seeds, but I named them for him because I didn't want to ever forget why I did it
That's why to this day. I continue to name plants after people. I respect and love
Right because I don't want to ever forget and I don't want
Any of you guys to ever smoke my herb, but not say my loved one's name. I want you to say
savage kush
20 years from now when i'm gone. I want someone to say my mom's name
I want you to say Nana's cookies
20 years from now when i'm gone, so they live forever. I don't have to they will they'll do it through my
memory of them
and it only happened because
I fucking woke up
in a fucking jail
Drunk because my grandpa was dying and I couldn't face it
And then the dude dies
And I had no
Uh, I had no way out of it but to face it
So I faced it head on and I would just say I could have drank until I died like he did
Or I could light up a joint
And deal with the shit like I always did
And that's what I fucking decided i'm gonna smoke a joint and i'm gonna figure out how to get better over this shit
That has broken me
so
I
Put some seeds in the soil
And like I tell everyone just do it it's gonna fix life cannabis has a story to tell each of us and it's different
Your story won't be the same as mine, but it will start the same. It's gonna start with a beginning
And we'll never know the end until it happens and when the end comes
You won't know I found that out by dying in the 2017
I woke up in 2018
Having to decide to cut my leg off
But I didn't know that I had died here and they had to bring me back and that I was in a coma for seven months
I didn't know none of that shit. You'll never know when the end comes
So just make the most out of the beginning and turn the story into whatever you want it
Make that plant
Or whatever it is. You decide to love in your life. I don't care what it is. We're talking about weed though
So make the plant
Whatever it is you need it to be
Just start though
Don't worry about the end
Can you talk about a specific kind of
Chemotype
chemovar that
Just work, you know, like everybody's different I mean we talked about the lock and key
something that just
Was just right for someone's specific condition
Even if it didn't work for other people with that same condition just something that hit one person just the right way
Well, I can tell you within my breeding, uh my plant mud bone
It's a plant that I created through breeding at my club specifically to treat. Uh ms
I had a group of uh patients in there that had ms
and a lot of them started coming to me talking about they like indica's indica's work, right and
I'm the kind of guy that's like I want to know what's helping the sick cat
I don't want to just sell them the buds they keep coming in asking for indica's and I keep asking them
What are the other clubs giving you?
when
You ask them for your indica's and then when they give them to you which one's working and it starts turning out
That most of these cats are getting bubba cush and they don't know it
I have one guy start bringing me the herb from the other club and I find out it's the exact same vendor that we got
For our bubba the other clubs just naming it something different. So this guy's going to our club and his club
So what I do is I take the bubble cushion
And I bring it to my angel plant because my angel plant i've always known to be
great for uh seizures and other neurological
issues, it's a
when I gave it to patients that had uh tbis traumatic brain injuries who suffered from like I had uh,
some veterans who had fallen out of uh,
They were air soldiers and had fallen out and landed on their helmets and shit when their fucking shoots didn't open and their heads
Were like caved in
And I was giving them my space cush regularly for free
and once I started to realize that uh, some of the ms patients and the other neurological cats were uh
Using a bubba. I took those two lines and crossed them together and then I ran it through my club with uh,
over 40 different ms patients and
I had such a high rate of folks coming back telling me that it was stopping
like up to 90 percent of all their uh,
ms problems with burning issues and um
In all their like, uh, the nerve endings
Pain was going away. They were getting mobility back. Uh,
then I started passing that in a lotion form to my uh, my cousin whose
daughter
has um
Man, what is it called? Uh cerebral palsy
And like he's like dude, we've tried everything everything
I'm talking any like if they told us a potato worked we'd rub a potato on her homie. We tried everything
And you're whatever you put in that lotion, dude
It's helping my daughter like I hadn't told her it was cannabis because at the time his wife
Hated weed so I wasn't gonna tell him. I just said I got a lotion
I can send you to try so I sent him the topical oil and my lotion and this starts working on him
And after that time period that's when I start realizing
That that line works specifically on them so that worked I use that on ms cancer patients
Uh anyone with traumatic brain injuries and then I find those lines even separate do the same thing
So my space kush line when I had my phenos one two and three my pheno one and two
Worked exactly the same way
They would stop seizures. They worked well for ms patients
The one thing they didn't do that the bubba did was the appetite they didn't increase people's appetite I used to use that specifically
for people with
uh
anorexia bulimia
Anyone going through chemotherapy or radiation that line works very specifically to help folks that need to have an appetite
Adjustment like if you're eating too much if you're eating too little for some reason it would work on those patients
Even on both sides it was crazy
Man, I even had helped a partner fucking get off meth
Using that bubble one time that shit
That shit was miraculous with him on that one that but he was a fat boy, man
He went from being a fat boy to a dope head back to a fat boy using bubba
but
Don't don't use it on all of them. Trust me, but the rest of them diseases it works on cancer ms
uh cerebral palsy
Those lines if you can find a deep chunk of real bubba, they're going to help you with that stuff
Um, then I seen with the ptsd lines, like I said, uh, my mom using the blue dream
It's a cultivar that works very well for antidepressant to get people off antidepressants
um people think I mean they're going to start giggling all that shit and it's a chemical imbalance and people that have uh
antidepressant problems
The blue dream has the ability to either level those out
Or to increase something that's missed. I don't know what it is on the actual chemical level, but it works man
I've used it on multiple people to help them with uh, getting off of uh antidepressants and that all started with my mom
My mom was the first person I realized that on
So there there are tons of them out there and i'd be
So interested in hearing what anybody else believes are out there but like through my lines my mud bone for ms
My space cush is something i'd give you if you've got seizures or any kind of uh,
working with arthritis or muscle pains, uh, it has the
A plant when it when you smoke it it has what I call an electric hug
It kind of wraps around you and just feels like it kind of gives you it's like a squeeze from your grandma
It feels like you got a hug from your loved one. Some plants do that. Some people say cbd feels like that for me
I get that from
Different ogs they instead of getting punched in the head
They they kind of wrap me like a saran wrap of fucking just a groovy ass feeling and that's what i'm always trying to get
At with my herbs, so I don't care what the terpene profile is. I don't care what the structure of it is
I don't care how long it took me to flower if when I get done and I smoke it
That for me it puts me in the position to just want to go forward
That's what i'm looking for in the herb. I usually never want to be just
Like knocked out of my ass and I rarely have that effect from any kind of cannabis
I'm, usually the dude that's smoking too much for too long
People are like, what'd you put in the weed?
I mean, I all I put in the weed was my fucking love and my time son. Let's smoke some more
What
Am I imagining or or was it last night when you were on instagram you were talking about blue dream or I feel like
Yeah, we're talking about last night
Yeah, um, it's a plant I've held for I held for 15 years. I lost it in 2018
So, like I said, I used it specifically to get my mom off of uh,
Antidepressants, I held the blue dream the bubble cush and fire og for 15 years those plants I held
I had the 88 grape bracket to 2012
There were certain lines I held on to because they worked for me
and my family medicinally like the reason I made space cush the parent to uh space cheese and
Like 144 of my other lines. I made that line
Because my mom used them for pain relief
She was smoking romulan and cataract cush like it was going out of style
And in my head i'm thinking if I can get both of those plants
To offer their medicinal properties to my mom because she's not smoking them to really get that high. She's smoking them
To feel good, right for the pain in her hand. My mom's got massive arthritis
Her hands are twisted and shit. My hands are kind of like that, but her fingers like over here shit
So she's she's had a lot of pain she's got a broken back twice
um
She she went through childbirth four times. Uh, so like that's got to be the hardest shit right there pumping me out
fucking
Uh, so she's smoking those two lines and in my head i'm thinking I if I can get the medicinal properties from those together
I might have something here for my mom. She don't got to have two different lines
I only got to grow one plant because she's just mixing them
So I cross them and from that seed line I start growing those out and having my mom smoke them and she doesn't know what i've done
She doesn't know I made this new line. That's cataract cush crossed with romulan
She just thinks I got some more weed to give her
And she keeps asking me for this weed over and over and she's always coming back going. I want this weed
You got some more of that weed and i'm like, yeah, I got I made it and she's like
What do you mean you made it because at that time?
my mom
Like she didn't give a fuck about if you was a breeder or nothing
Like weed was for you to feel better and I don't give a fuck where the seed come from
Do you have some of the weed right?
But when she realized that I had made this strain
And I could give it to her at any time
We don't got to go buy it because we were always buying grape wreck. We're always buying blue dream
And we I was buying fire. Oh gee, that's why I ended up getting those cuts back in the day
But she's going like I gotta keep buying grape wreck and i'm like fuck we don't have to buy grape wreck I can breed
Plants like i've made this thing. You like it. She's like, what do you mean? I'm like I made the space cush
I made this I took the plants. I bred them together
I created this line and now you have a plant that you plan works better than both of them mixed
So why do I need to keep those ones around?
When I can just give you this one so that's when she like it hit her she's like fuck you're gonna make me whatever I want
I'm, like, okay
What you just tell me what you want and it's gonna take time
But like I can use you as the guinea pig. I make fucking 10 lines
I let you smoke all of them and you're like they all suck. They don't work
I throw them away and I work in another one. I say it's gonna take a couple years
It'll but we'll get it
So i'm gonna start doing that with her and then I get a job at the club and that's when my breeding shifted
When I got access to the 4600 patient base
And then I got a group of 400 people together from the club that allowed me to use them as my breeding guinea pigs
Where I would send them the moms
and my cross
And ask them does it do what you wanted from it?
Like does the bubba and the cross both help you with your appetite?
Are they both helping you with the radiation like did did they both stop your seizures, right?
And if they come back
Yes, then I know i'm working in the right way with that plant steer that in the direction
I want if they come back and they're all like it didn't work man. I just kept smoking the bubba
I didn't even use that I gave it to my buddy. I'm like, oh shit. I didn't it didn't work
I don't need to keep fucking trying to force that one. I'll find another one that works, right?
And I never gave him one so like a guy we could have six plants at that time
So i'd give a guy six plants, right? I let him grow those six. He'd grow them indoors. He'd have six
He could have another six or twelve at that time in his bedroom
So the twelve would be six columns from those plants and twelve seed plants
So now in the next room he could always put two of mine or two of the other one
He could do test runs for me or the lady that was doing it for me because I had multiple different
Veterans that helped me out and I had a whole bunch of seniors that used to help me out
They would bring me in all these test reports until one day big john comes in this veteran. It's like six foot six
Big motherfucker. He's wearing a levi
Uh, like vest jacket like a biker jacket fucking he comes in he pulls his knife out and slams it on the fucking thing
It tells me he's not taking free shit for me again
I'm tired of taking free shit. I'm a fucking veteran. He starts telling me about like I understand that my dad's a vet
I'm like, you don't gotta go another minute brother, but let me explain something to you
Like what you're giving me is invaluable
It's not free like i'm not giving you anything free because what you're bringing back to me I can't pay for
I can't get it's invaluable information, man
I said you're telling me if it works for you and your brothers
Like you got you brought me 25 different dudes in here that have seizures
I could be giving 25 dudes the long herb and they could still be having fucking seizures and it hit him right there
I didn't have to continue talking. He's like dude
He's i'm gonna bring every veteran. I know in here, homie. He's like I apologize for what i'm uh
You ain't gotta apologize for shit, man
If it wasn't for dudes like you the information that guys like me would never get to the guys that fucking need it
You boys out there that are having the seizures the guy that fucking can't stand being in the middle of fucking walmart
During fucking christmas. He starts having a ptsd attack and fucking wants to stab everybody, right? I know what's going on, homie
I said i'm not a vet myself, but my dad's vet. My uncle's a vet. My grandpa's a vet
I love veterans homie. I do this for veterans. My dad is the reason I started
Pass herb to other people besides my mom. He told me about these vets he knew
So I gave him all my extra hash
All my extra bud and i'd send him all my fucking edibles that I could because my mom was making edibles
He'd take them up to them vets. He'd come back and tell me dude so and so fucking he don't have seizures no more
Can you make me more of them fucking cookies? He likes cookies. He doesn't smoke weed. Boom. You got cookies
Fucking this cat likes to smoke hash. Can I have some more hash? Boom?
Here's a quarter pound of hash give it to whoever needs the hash
I'm, like I give you more but I have patience here
But you got first access to whatever I got pop one every year in town because he'd show up
Maybe every three months or every four months to get some stuff
I'd give it to him take it back to these cats and i'm finding out from multiple different directions
That the plants that i'm breeding
And the directions i'm heading are all doing
Uh, like what I want not that all of them are perfect, but i'm steering for this shit because i'm using the patient
To help me steer. He's my steering wheel. I'm not the steering wheel. I don't know what it's like to have ms
I don't have it at that time. I was a healthy dude. I had my legs
I was never sick man. I had his gut like a fucking goddamn war pig, dude
I could eat a fucking stone and shit out of rose humming whatever you want out of me, but
It went away
But at that time
I could only use other people's experience with the plant to help me steer
The vehicle that I was driving in the direction that was going to help them on their journey
I can't be in everyone's vehicle, but I can listen to you
Tell me about the trees and the fields and everything that you went through which are your ptsd
And your cancer these are those things on the journey of your life
If you tell me about them and what helped you with them
I listened so much that i'm gonna spend the rest of my life trying to help you with that if I love you
And I loved everybody that came to me
about this plant it just
I could not
I couldn't hate you. I had to love you because the plant told me that
Like I started with it because of my grandpa
And because of my like myself, but I I never knew I loved myself until I found out I loved everybody else
That took a plant to tell me that
So just quickly with like for example with the veterans
Do you have this data?
Anywhere besides in your head? I had it in testimonials and a binder at the club
But when I left that club, they wouldn't let me bring nothing with me and when they shut down
It's all gone. They stole. They stole all my info dude. I had binders. I had pictures
I had so much hard data. It was insane
And I lost all of it to these to the club owner, man
that dude fucking
They wouldn't let me back in the building to get nothing
I left one day with a hundred of my own clones and I was never allowed back in the building
It was fucked up man, they started relabeling my cuts
While I was in the shop and I fucking I walked out i'm like this is i'm done
You guys are all you're doing is trying to make a dollar off of me
And that's not what I ever got in the cannabis for so I collected all my cookies all my edibles
And all my fucking cuts and bounce
And that and that was what year 2012 march 2012, um, I fucking uh
Like literally the the owner's wife went in the back and took one of my uh,
blue dream cuts out
and put it in a brand new cup and wrote white widow on the side and went out to sell it to one of the
patients as white widow and i'm
Like, what are you doing?
She's like he's white widow. I'm like we don't white widow. We got a list that's not in here
I don't know where you got it, but we don't sell them and she's like, what are you talking about?
She's trying to make me understand that she's trying to pull a hustle and I need to shut up
And i'm like, what are you what are you doing?
I'm, like i've spent almost four years trying to get people to realize that I ain't passing any kind of bullshit to them
You've been in here 11 days and you're writing white widow on shit. We don't sell that cut in this club
I'm, like i'm out of here. I'm gonna get my shit. You have your husband call me and like homeboy never called me
He he fucking he just put the word out that other people should not talk to me i'm like this is some bullshit
Like I tried to get over my hands bleeding and go back and it just didn't work didn't like a fucking
I literally worked there probably like 11 more days after my hands started bleeding
To where she started writing shit on cups and I bounced I went back one day
I'm, like dude, like we can either try to work this out like go back to where we were
Or like I just can't come back here homie. I mean he's
He wouldn't let me come back in the building. I was lucky. I took what I took
I wish so bad. I still had that information. It's all in my head now
Everyone tells me to write a book or write it down. But like
I got there's four years of documentation from that club
That like I don't know how I could re-document that stuff I can't get a hold of the people a lot of them are dead
For the a lot of cats that had cancer died
Um the seniors like mary jane. She passed away right after I left the club. She was like 96
i'm trying to think
90 92 or 96
Little old lady that literally she used to wear a brace on the front of her body in the back of her body
She couldn't even hold up her purse
Her her spine was deteriorating so bad. She came into my club asking if she
Have we had any pot lotion?
She heard pot lotion could help from her doctor
And i'm like, what what do you need pot lotion for ma'am?
if I could ask and she started telling me about what was wrong and
I'd fucking go in the back and my mom had a jar of her own lotion
That was way stronger than what I sold in the club because my mom my mom was in serious pain
She had broke her back twice
So the stuff in the back was probably like 10 times stronger and i'm like just hold on one second, ma'am
I'll be right back and I go in the back and I get the lotion
I had four ounce tub of lotion in the back and a two ounce jar of this liniment rub that I had for my mom
And I give her both of them. I'm here
You just go home and you rub this on yourself
And you come back and tell me if it works and she starts trying to give me money and i'm like you don't give me
No money. I said you have trouble just like my mother i've made this for my mom specifically
It's not from the shop the shop's not going to lose no money. You take this with you
And if you're any pain
If you need it stronger you tell me right and she's like, well, can I use the restroom?
And i'm like, yeah, I let her go in the back
I didn't realize she was gonna go in there and rub it on herself. I thought she had to use the restroom
She goes in the into the our employee's restroom
She did what she had to do. She comes out and she's crying and i'm like man, what's wrong?
And she's like i've never not been in pain for I don't know how long she couldn't believe
that cannabis
Took the pain away from her. She'd never smoked it
She just heard about it from her doctor and comes into our club because their doctor's office
Was just down and because we were in this um shopping center. Her doctor was on the other side
He points to us there's our club and like two doors down
There's another club and ours just happened to be the one she walked into and she met me
And after that she would come in once a month i'd give her all the lotion and all the liniment rub she needed
She'd go in and rub some on as she was there and then she'd go back home
She'd come back a month later and that shit happened till I left the club man
That's one of the ladies. I wish I could I could get back to talking to I wish she would have never passed away man
I missed that lady. We used to talk
She was like my grandma man. She was cool
She was cool and the fact that like I changed her life for the positive with a just a lotion
like
That's that shit's crazy on my mind
Like this was a lady that probably 10 years before that was yelling at her grandkid for smoking a joint
And who now comes into my club?
that
Used it for the rest of her life and felt that much better, right?
She didn't feel like shit every day because she used a lotion
That raised her spirits up and took some of the pain away and every day she could wake up
No, I don't have to spend no money on a lotion that could fucking make me feel better
She could have went to the other club and been spending fucking 50 a jar for this other dude's lotion in town
That every other club sold but my club sold a fucking jar of lotion for fucking 10 because I made it
And I don't have no overhead I don't got to pay a fucking vendor
I'll bring it in here and i'll give it to you if you come in and tell me you're on disability
Are you a senior citizen? Are you a veteran?
Is this for your child?
You get to have it. I'm not gonna charge you
I don't care if it's a gram of weed if it's a goddamn cookie or if it's a bottle of lotion
If you have to have it to stay alive, i'm gonna figure out a way for me to give it to you
And make an extra dollar off the dude that's rubbing on himself at the ecstasy party, right?
Because that kid's just trying to get his jollies off
He can pay me fucking ten dollars a bottle and i'll give it to mary jane for free every time she comes in here
And that's what I did. That's how I ran my club
But I heard like kevin jodery talking about giving compassion at the club at the humble resource center
I did the same thing at my club when I was the dude buying the buds
I told everyone in my club if i'm going to sell your weed
You got to give me a percentage for free that I can give to my patients that don't have the money who are dying, dude
I'm, not talking about the bum that's coming in here that wants a fucking free joint because he'll get a free joint
But it's off some schwag
I'm talking about mary jane who's gonna die
In the next five years that if I don't give her cannabis today
Tomorrow, she's wondering how she's gonna smile, right? Why should I waste one of her frowns?
On not having some fucking lotion
When I could give it to her now
She's got an extra smile that she can give to her grandson or granddaughter her neighbor or to her dog or whatever, right?
Why does she gotta feel like crap while she's dying?
When I have the knowledge and the ability to give her something that could raise her up out of that even that much
and
That's that's what always
Drove me when I was working with the plant when I was running my club
And when i'm doing this shit on instagram and when i'm talking to people everybody knows if you hit me up
I answer your questions man. I'm one of the breeders that answers you almost 24 hours a day
I'm up to like four in the damn morning
On a live on instagram i'm answering the dms. I ask you
Why you're sick and why you need the cannabis?
I don't just tell you this is the biggest producer and this one's going to taste this way because that's what you asked for
I want to know what you're using it for right?
Um
That's just my style doesn't mean i'm better or it's the right way. That's just how I do it
That's how i've always done it. I don't know any other way
I think if i've tried to breach it that had a funny name only and
Was something that was a knockoff of the next dude's all i'm going to produce is junk
That's how I always feel about it. So I try to always breed
for my own
Uh direction my own thoughts, but always it's for somebody else
Purpose like so I met someone that uh had like my my adopted brother. He's got dravet syndrome
He's one of the well, he's the oldest person
On earth that has dravet syndrome
His name is cam and that dude was taking pills
So many pills he was turning this color and his mom decided I don't want to smurf for a son
I need to figure something out and she found
ACDC she found the plant acdc and they were selling the tincture at this club
She starts buying it
When it starts working for cutting the seizures from 300 seizures a day to seven seizures a day
And then one day the dude that was selling the acdc tincture to the club
Ran out of acdc and went and put in half a batch of fucking high thc stuff in there
Figuring it's probably just dudes getting high. Anyway, they'll never know
And 12 of the kids get bottles of this stuff
there was a group of kids that were buying from this club and
I believe three or four of them
They end up in the hospital having adverse reactions to thc and my stepbrother cam was one of them
Like it almost killed him. They had to keep him in there for 96 hours to try to stabilize him
He ended up having seizures after seizure after seizure for months and it's all because he ended up getting a bad batch of cannabis
Well his mom knowing that I was a breeder that bred towards
medicinal properties and who would i've actually
Created a line that's named after him that i've never sold that I used to give away to people
Never made a penny off it never will
Um, it's called earth angel. That's his nickname
When she had this problem with this club, she hits me up and asks me what to do and I I walked her through how to grow
Cannabis
In her own house, so I talked to her husband. He finds out where he gets cut of acdc through me
I send him to the club to get him because it's he's in a place where i'm not at
He goes down there. He gets the cuts. They grow them out and he knows that he can't just give his son anything
So he goes and have the stuff tested it comes back
Exactly what they're looking for and to this day they grow that strain
For their son who now went from a dude that was a hundred percent
Invalid he had to be pushed around. He's never spoke. He eats through a feeding tube
He he can't hold his head up
The dude takes horseback riding lessons now
He went and started eating ice cream and shit like he'd never ate any form of food
in his life until he was 22 years old and it all come from
Using cannabis the correct way
And the correct way for him was to use a plant that had no thc in it
That's turned into a tincture that's fed to him through his feeding tube. He doesn't smoke it. He doesn't dab it
He's not rubbing out on him and he can't even give it to himself
But someone that loves him does and because of that he's went from having a life
That compared to now
Was almost nothing. I mean that dude's enjoying life now before all he did was lay on the floor while they played sesame street to him
Until he was 22 years old
And now that dude's out fucking on a goddamn horse riding a fucking horse, homie
I can't ride a fucking horse my boys cams out there galloping around the wild west and shit, right?
I mean, he's got to have someone help him, but I can't even ride a horse
Even if I had help i've fallen off that motherfucker ripped my ass in half
but
Use cannabis correctly. It'll change your life
Everybody needs to learn this
Where are these questions they're trying to get the traffic
I'm still fixated on the uh, the massage parties
Oh, man
I could probably show you a picture of cam fucking riding too, huh?
I don't know. I probably shouldn't his mom might not want me showing that picture
So just on a uh on a fun note
I have the uh, which one was this one?
That's the haze for days that's what's behind me right here
Oh, right, right, right
That's some of this right back here
That's also some haze yeah, I I think everything
Is gonna be yeah, those would all be hazes right there. That's all just that's all bottom buds
That came off of the plant from this year
That I was growing out there
I was gonna bring on some of my old high times that had pictures of haze in it and I couldn't find it
That's why I sent those to you. I wanted to show
The pictures between those and now those are the parents to the haze for days the male and the female
And small small pots. I wanted to show that plant right there is fucking three feet tall both of those
um
Well, actually about two and a half. So that's a male that was there when I pollinated the female
That's just one of the branches off of it when I was outside
I actually pollinated the 25 foot
Uh female last year with a three foot male
So the male that's a branch off the male that was just three feet tall and he's just starting to open up his sepals
That's showing the uh, some of the double and triple serration edges
Like if you look in the middle on the left side there, you'll notice there's a triple serration on one of those blades
Um, it's just to show if you go through the history on haze that you'll start seeing some of
I think I lost him but that that is
All right, we'll we'll wait for him to come back
Up and here he comes sorry
No, sorry about that. I don't know. I I was on uh
That
That's the stalk of that haze for the one that was outside that the picture that I show you that 18 footer that I grew
next to the cedar
stump
That's the base of uh that thing right there
That's your mom, right?
Yeah
Yeah, the the yeah, there's a bit yeah offensive genetics he says he'll pass on it it looks like crappy structure
This is an original haze. This is not an nl5. This is a plant that you would use to breed with
Everyone talks about land race or going back to the old days or trying to get before you get to
All these new hybrids. This is a plant that has made
The line here. This genetic line has been used in some of the most famous
And time uh
I mean these are classics that have lasted haze is a plant that has been here since 1969
It's the first commercial cannabis strain that was given to us as such
It wasn't just some bullshit that your friend grew they tried to move this commercially that i've sent pictures to peter here of the poster
That was given out. Uh, i've sent some of the information that shows that where it was. Uh, it was
Created by rl and g
um in san diego
They uh use that haze, which is a punta rojo
Crossed to a magenta the original root beer
Uh, then crossed to a green colombian. It's a three-way which makes pure haze
and that's what mine is it's a
Haze corella tie and I show that information on the uh from the forums from sam
On the stuff that I sent peter there. So yeah, it does have a very um
Open structure now say you have a growing deep chunk a very dense
Short plant that takes forever to veg in your garden now
You'd like that plant the deep chunk has a terpene profile that you like
It has a high that you like but it just does not grow and keep pace with anything else in your garden
So, how do you fix this?
You would take my haze like many breeders have done
And cross it to this plant and the hybrid from that then is worked into a line bred line that will give you something
That offers exactly what you want. This is how modern day cannabis was bred
Nobody took the shit that was already out there growing in the wild that no one took care of and nobody harvested
No one selected and offered that to us and they found
These 100 killer hybrid lines because they didn't exist them
Those lines did not offer you what we found today. We end up getting these shorter faster denser
more narcotic plants
from
Breeding from hybridizing they didn't show up in nature like that everywhere
If they did we'd have deep chunk all over the place
So we end up having like kevin says with me and gene having the giant box of crayons
Some of us like the color with the black marker that shows real fucking fat lines
And some of us like seeing all the colors in the rainbow and you're not going to see those
By looking at a plant and saying well that one has shitty structure. I'd never grow that
You've just decided
from a visual
perspective that something that's a hundred percent magical that your body has receptors for isn't worthwhile of your time and
That's not an open mindset to have with this plant. That's why I say respect it. Yes. It has an open structure
What other plant do you know in a 60 gallon pot's going to grow 25 feet?
Give you seven pounds of herb if you want to breed with it's going to give you a
Few hundred thousand seeds it's going to make your life easy for a long time
It's going to make your tight dense
Plants open up structure that it's now going to be able to turn into a concentrate which if you are in a facility
That's trying to make cbg or cbd
You need to have an open structure on your plant
And you need to be able to activate those trichomes with light
This plant has that ability to offer that inbreeding
I'm responding. All right, so
Yeah, I just got some authentic genetics haze myself, um
That's good weed haze is good weed man. I don't grow it for the structure. I tell everybody it's not gonna look good in your room
It's gonna overtake everything else in your foot in the room or your tent
Grow it outside actually use it to breed with don't grow this plant and think you're gonna grow yourself pounds of pretty
Magazine quality herb because it's not what it looks like but smoke it
And five hours later when you get up off the couch wondering what the fuck happened to you
Go back in the room and wonder when them those last four months of breeding or flowering are gonna happen because you need some more
Haze this month
It's just like the congo that congo is so crazy that weed just destroys me man. It's a 12-week flower
A lot of people don't want to mess with it
They want an eight week or they want a seven week they want it to finish fast
They want these crystal covered nugs that have immature trichomes over them
Like i'm looking to medicate myself man 100
So the the rob you just mentioned the robert brits creek congo, uh, yes
That that's kind of a knock you over the head. Uh
This stuff puts me like they talk about couch lock if I if you see me smoke a joint of this stuff I go from
Like right now. I seem like i'm
Jittery and i'm talking real fast. The congo slows me down. It it just it totally
Destroys me it makes me just want to
Stop stop doing shit. I start thinking like my brain is going 100 miles an hour
But my body don't want to do it. I just decide to chill out and stop
Chill out and stop and that that happens to the congo and the haze the haze does the same thing to me when I smoke
My haze it has an opposite effect that it does to most people most people will smoke that
and they talk about an electric eye or a psychedelic eye and
What happens to me is they turn they're like a switch. They turn me off. I just my eyes go low
I don't want to get out of the chair. Like when I had legs, I wouldn't get up and go do nothing
I just want to sit there and start eating shit
Uh, but my brain is thinking about a million different things. That's when like I'd come up with the bone clone, right?
That's literally how I came up with this
I was smoking some haze and i'm like I gotta figure some shit out with this printer
And the next thing you know, I got this clone shipper and it all come from smoking some haze one day
and I was just
Destroyed but i'm all I could do was think about
Think about shit like I gotta do something I gotta do something
What am I gonna do?
But I couldn't get up and do it at the time
So I just sat there on my computer and designed this damn thing and the computer aided drafting program
I mean it took me like seven days to find to finalize it
But that first day I made a version and i'm like that's exactly what i'm after
That's exactly because I had made a square one before and the square one just wasn't working for me
I didn't like the shape the fucking it was too small
It just it didn't look refined and then I smoked some haze and this comes out of me. I'm like
It snaps to a cup that I already use. It's got a replaceable light. I mean it's light tight
I couldn't have thought of that stuff without smoking my haze
The haze also is what stopped my uncle from having seizures so
It was the ugliest looking budge you ever had but my uncle's brain quit shaking
Yeah, can you can you talk because I feel like a lot of people watching right now, I mean
Not everybody's a commercial grower trying to get shit out into the market as fast as possible and
You know hitting thc numbers and
I feel like a lot of this stuff is kind of just like stuff. You'd want to grow at home, right?
Well, yeah, I hear that. Um
That just that's hard to do with the market
so many people are only trying to impress their friends with what the fuck they're growing instead of trying to impress their friends with
How much better the herb they grew made their life like
Like when I say my uncle didn't have seizures no more
Like if you had a loved one who had seizures every day of their life and you could grow some weed that looked like
A pile of trash. It was a ruderio and it only grew six inches tall, but your loved one quit having seizures
Why wouldn't you put that in your room?
I don't understand it and that's where all this uh
Like we were talking earlier of all the breeders that are out here
That are selling you stuff that aren't the norm like and by the norm i'm talking about
the cousin related to the
Next cousin that this breeder got from that breeder now. He's back crossing it to the other cousin and it's all the same shit
Right, it comes out average. It's good weed to get you high, but how many people is it actually?
Changing their life on other than I got some likes on instagram, right?
If your baby doesn't have a seizure anymore from you growing a plant that look like ass
Don't you think that that plant has a beauty in it that maybe only you see?
Like we can't we can't look at the plant from other people's perspectives when the perspective that's kicking us in the fucking face
Uh is telling us
What we don't like we don't want to see that we want it to be something else
And it's exactly what we're looking for we're searching through uh
A cookie line to try to get rid of seizures when it's in a deep chunk line
I'm, just using those names because that's what we've been talking about here like for each person. It's going to be different
If if you find something that works for you
Uh, your mission should be to try to find someone else that that line works for them
Also not to try to show them that it's purple or to show them that you have it or to hoard it
I learned my lesson hoarding plants. I I used to have 176 moms
I whittled that down after I left the club to 76 which eventually became 56
which became
56 too many plants for my parent or my mom and my brother to take care of while they were trying to keep me alive
Which if I would have passed them to people I would be able to have went back and got them
And people would still have the medicinal help from the plants that I used to carry
Not that mine were the only plants that could do those but I knew my plants inside and out
I could pass you one of my crosses and it was going to help you
For what you were looking for
Before it didn't right because that's because I spent so many time with sick darn folks using my plants
Not everybody's doing that. Most people are only using the cannabis that they're surrounded with
on the people that they're surrounded by so
You've been smoking weed for 10 years, right? Let's say you're a stoner
You're just getting high and you're getting the giggles you get the munchies and you have fun with your friends
And then one day your mom comes to you and tells you your grandmother has
uterine cancer
And the doctor says that maybe cannabis could help her
And your mom came to you because you've been getting in trouble for smoking weed for the last 10 years
And she knows that you're the only person that she directly knows that has any input with cannabis
So they come and tell you what do we do?
Or they just mention it thinking you'll say something and most people are like i'll get some weed for grandma no matter what
Right, and that's what we do
We wait until the baseball bat hits us at the baseball park to decide it's a home run
When it's we've been surrounded by sluggers our whole life, right? The cannabis can help somebody we know
And it doesn't cure everything. I'm not one of them dudes cannabis doesn't cure everything
Sometimes just growing a plant will save your life. I'm i'm a dude that proves that I was laying in this bed
After the doctor sent me home hoping I would die
My leg was cut off. They had removed
60 of my ass they put a bag on me
They told me i'd never flip myself over in a bed again. I was going to be turned over like a pancake for the rest
of my life
Basically every two hours so that I wouldn't have blood clots. That's what they told me
So they sent me home and they put me on this airbed and I lay here I quit eating
I quit thinking I tried to quit watching tv. I didn't want to be part of the world
And some of the friends on facebook sees me going through this shit because i'm still on facebook because like, you know
You can't stop it's a drug
It's my attachment to the world. So
I'm still posting and trying to act like i'm not in this state of mind. I'm trying to act like i'm gonna make it
But inside I don't feel like that
And my buddy roberto
Sends me two packs of auto
flower seeds
One of them's a slovenian regular and one's an auto flower fin
I'm a breeder. So in my mind i'm going to use regular so i'm going to just put
Them in and see what happens. I put these two out of flower seeds in this. Um,
little
aeroponic growing, uh
Garden setup it had nine sites in it. So I take nine sites and I
Put it came with vegetables and shit. So I put some tomatoes in there
Mom likes tomatoes. There's some basil in there and uh some lettuce and then I got two spots left
And I put two seeds of that slovenian auto flower in there, right?
and
on day two those seeds pop up and I see
Two little sprouts of cannabis
Sticking above the little peat pellets and I'd already seen tomato plants. I already seen the lettuce they're growing but I didn't
Give a shit about those but as soon as those two little cannabis seeds sprouted their heads up
Two little auto flowers plants that I hated
I never liked auto flowers. They were always
little
Quality plants that people grew for the wrong reasons. They were growing
Because they thought they were going to get a lot of wheat fast instead of growing with a can of anoin that they
Might have held
And using that as the medicine so I just didn't like them
But these two seeds spoke to me and every day
They told me to get my ass up and go make sure that they're watered and make sure that they don't got bugs
Make sure that the roots don't look slimy because in a hydroponic setup
Change out the reservoir day 14. I got it all timed out and
These two seeds brought me back to life. They gave me a purpose beyond trying to die in the bed
so like sometimes
Cannabis
Can be your everything but like i'm not one of the dudes that'll tell you it's
Goodness, it'll do everything because there's dudes out there. Cannabis cures fucking everything out there
and it don't but if you
Use it correctly. It can help you with everything that's wrong with you like I said, I was dying
I didn't want to be here
I didn't have any friends. Nobody was around here. It was just
The doctors the nurses my mom and my brother and I just wanted out because I was a burden on people
But the two seeds brought me back to where you see me right now
I'm back sharing information with people
I'm back hoping that the seeds I produce will stop somebody else's seizure and not just help me with my ghost pains and my leg
Like cannabis can save your life and you don't have to smoke it
It also can take it from you and you don't have to do anything but touch it like my story is both sides
and
that that's kind of like
What I'd like people to hear I want everyone to know that
Cannabis isn't one thing
It isn't a it isn't a sativa
It's not fast flowering. It doesn't cure
Cancer it isn't going to make you great
It's what you make of it just like life
That's what that's what I learned
From this plant and from the experiences that everyone else that I met doing this brought to me
I think you might kill us or we still here
Hmm
Sorry, you're you're I was saying you're still here. I was making myself big so, uh
We could hear your audio because it was glitching
Oh, i'm, sorry, but uh, I I think that was a good a good point to end on
um
You probably need some sleep brother I I do i've been up since four in the morning
I'm ready to go to bed. But uh
Now I I appreciate it we'll uh, we'll chop it up some more in the next couple days
Cool cool. Um, make sure you put up daga.love so everybody knows where to go to support your brother
Yeah, let me
We can even what's up gary my partner gary
Is where yeah, you guys go there support everybody on that side for everyone that's on there make sure you check me last
Those other breeders been on there longer than me. Make sure you start with them first
No, I I well I I like I mean because I have people who hit me up who uh
You know are like i'm looking for something that you know addresses epilepsy or
Um, whatever it may be and that's why i'm trying to tease out of like you kind of
What was epilepsy my space?
That's where I would steer people when you say that right now. That's the line I give to everybody for epilepsy would be my space
kush line, um
I I do have seeds and people do want to ask me about it. I get asked all the time about it. Um,
It's the line
That the original line is where angel came from but what's available now is either an f2 and f3 or an f4
It just depends on
What I decide to give folks usually
um
Right now most of them have been f4s though
Someone just mentioned lyme's disease
Uh with lyme disease lyme disease is going to be a hard one
I would go with the terpenes like with lyme's disease my buddy nick
Risen
I I would talk to nick. Uh, yeah
It's gonna be the uh official the official cat everybody with lyme's disease should be listening to that
Dude has tried to save his life and he has done it
Um the respect that I have for that cat. I can't put words around it that dude
like
I know what the shit he's going through
Let me just say because of the shit i've gone through
And I tried to shrivel up and die and I see that motherfucker busting his ass like a goddamn g all the time
So like if you don't know him go check him out because that dude's story could make anybody else
Get the fuck up off the couch and do a little bit more with what they got available to him
That's dude doing fucking a thousand percent
With with only about three cards in the deck man
They didn't give him the whole deck to fuck with at the moment and he's fucking he's pulling out kings and full houses and everything
for real
So someone asked about ms
Can we get my mud bone, um, I do have some left
It's not a line that I offer publicly if you got ms
I can send you some seeds and you do what you want with a man because I haven't remade that line in so many years
because of me losing my leg and
Basically, uh, it's a line that I didn't want to make money off of so I didn't reproduce it a bunch of times
I do have some seeds. So if you got ms hit me up in the dm on instagram or on facebook
Uh, you can hit me up right there on that filial fila and i'll talk to you. Um
My mud bone is what I recommend for ms. Um
100 and then calder emery you asked for nicks as well. Nick is
lime rising farms
Neck
Yeah, that's that dude right there has so much information on terpenes helping him with uh,
With his limes disease. It's crazy man
Most people would think that you're gonna just go to smoke in the cannabinoid
But when you can get the medicinal effect that he's learned from just the terpene profile, that's what i'm talking about
This plant can save us
As long as we learn how to use it correctly
As long as we quit fucking with the shatter don't matter and like I say indicant the tea if we can just get down to
the basic
reality and the truths
Not the opinions that we all bring to it. We're gonna save a lot more lives than we hurt and that's what it's all about
Yeah, so this is nick's uh ig
Yeah, that's the homie nick right there
and then
There's tony so we'll we'll end with that
Tony I know you're a night owl. So you're probably up for another couple hours, but yeah, i'm gonna hit up instagram
If anybody wants i'm gonna be on instagram here in about 20 minutes live i'm gonna take care of some shit here
And then i'm gonna probably start a live video on instagram
And i'm going straight to bed
So with that I will kill the live stream, thanks everyone
uh
And riley it's early on thursday for you or early evening
in australia
On the east coast of australia, so thanks everyone. Oh, sorry and tomorrow, uh
10 a.m
pacific time
We're going to thailand
Uh to talk to some people there
uh
Thursday we got blue a green tank
Uh
Saturday we're doing a garden tour of scott scams sunday james loud monday possibly tad hussy and uh
um
nelson linley and some other people so
Anyway, have a good night
Right on and and go go move on over to the ig live stream
Have a good one filial feel all right. Good night. Everyone. Last up. Thank you everybody
