Hey, how's it going, everyone?
Welcome to episode nine of the James Loud Show.
Today we're talking with Marlon Asher.
Him and I have some fun stuff to talk about our past
and our new seed lineup that's going to be available today on Daga.Love.
Welcome, Marlon. How you doing?
I'm good, man. Nice to be a part of something great, you know.
Thanks for having me on the cast again.
You know how it goes.
Yeah, yeah. And everyone.
Yeah, it's been a long time coming, man.
We've been working on this stuff for years, talking about it since 2012.
Yeah, man, it's it's it's nice to finally see it coming together.
And, you know, everything we've been working on
and talking about is finally here.
We are ready to present it to the world.
Yeah. Even with COVID, even with COVID, you know, it's like
we've had our challenges.
Even in this time.
Yeah. I mean, literally a year ago, maybe a little bit less than a year ago.
Now we were in the Caribbean
thinking that we were going to be launching in the Caribbean and Spain
before we launched in the US.
Yeah, we've been to we we we just before the COVID happened,
we were in Spain actually preparing to launch.
Yeah, they're still waiting for us, you know, like we need to be here.
I still got my ticket pending.
So as soon as it's OK, we're there.
Yeah, I'm ready.
You know, so I guess let's just tell everybody a little bit of our history
together. You know, we met originally at the 2012 Cup in Amsterdam.
You were performing and we had won our first big, big cup there.
And I brought the OG Kush over.
And you guys love OG Kush.
Yeah, that was at the time.
If you don't have OG Kush, you know, you're not really smoking.
Yeah, that was we we we was, you know, it was kind of special for us
to get some OG at that time because.
Missing that Cali taste, you know?
Yeah, there's lots of bud over there and lots of hash,
but it's like finding the quality stuff is it's it's hit or miss.
I've been on whole trips where I couldn't find anything really that amazing.
Exactly. That was a blessing.
You know, we met and you know, since then, you know, we've been good friends.
We've been.
Doing business together.
I must say, thank God, you know.
And of the giving and thanksgiving and stuff, I must say, thank God for,
you know, all that he has showed us over the years and the part
that he has took us down, you know, to get to this point.
I must say, thank God for all that we, you know, been through.
Truly blessed, man.
We've had our ups and downs, but man, it's been amazing.
Definitely so.
So, yeah, I guess let's talk about the first time we dabbed out your
DJ.
Yeah, we I had a show, I had a performance and
my DJ, he never smoked.
He never took a dab.
And he was the flavor that you had, James.
He just couldn't resist.
He was.
Yeah, I think we had OG, OG, you know, a shatter back then.
We had, you know, the shatters and the saps and stuff.
Yeah. And he he got dabbed out, man.
He knocked out on the pool table.
Time to perform. He can't get up.
Right at the milk bag downstairs and backstage.
Yeah. But a good thing we had a backup plan, you know, and that happened.
Happens smoothly, I must say.
Yeah. Exciting times, man.
Yeah. That guy was completely passed out with his arms out
laying back on the pool table.
That was that was a trip for him.
Yeah, that had to be an adventure for sure.
Oh, yeah. He never stopped talking about that back in.
So, yeah. And then, you know, we you you toured with Slightly Stupid a bunch.
And I've been fortunate enough to be able to go to a bunch of shows,
you know, and blessed on that, too.
It's a you know, some of the most amazing performances.
Slightly Stupid is one of the
most amazing band I've toured amongst, you know.
Yeah. They have a sound that I've never really seen anyone
catch that, you know.
So it's a blessing, you know.
Yeah.
Yeah. They really provide an experience for everybody that goes to the show.
You know, it's so much more, you know, with the talent that they have to.
It's just incredible.
Yeah. The music comes alive, especially when the
Slightly Stupid outfit is well put together.
A well-oiled machine, I must say.
Oh, yeah. Well-oiled, you know, the Santa Cruz show in 2013.
You know, everybody who was anybody in the cannabis industry,
I feel like the majority of the guys were there.
We had DNA and Crockett.
And that was the most smoked out I've ever seen a backstage.
You know, I mean, more than Snoop Dogg, more than anything.
I've never seen anything like that.
More than Snoop Dogg, more than anything.
I've never seen that much smoke.
You know, it's like you would get a contact eye.
That was like 4th of July smoke in the sky.
Right. That was that was fun.
Yeah. I had a real good time there.
That show was, you know, some of the shows Slightly Stupid do
could go down in history as some of the most memorable times I've had, you know.
Yeah. And those guys smoke.
They're real smokers, you know, not like some of these other guys.
Oh, they love to.
Especially Kyle, he love a good spliff, you know. Yeah.
Yeah. So how was Red Rocks?
You've performed at Red Rocks before, too, right?
But I had to separate performance at Red Rocks.
You know, the first time it was so cold.
I mean, the first time I'm going to Red Rock and embracing that cold, man.
I did. It was a shocker to me.
I didn't know how to.
Respond, you know,
that was when it was like raining and snowing all day.
It was crazy.
But day, what you know, by the grace of God, that show,
you know, went down real nice.
The next time I performed, I actually got a plaque.
Because the.
Slightly stupid sold the place out and.
It's not regularly that the place gets sold out,
so every time that happens, you know, they give a plaque
to all the artists that perform to.
Commemorate, you know, I mean, the day.
So I actually have a plaque.
An award for selling out the Red Rocks on that time with the stupid.
So that was a blessing to, you know, pretty epic.
Yeah, man, it's it's it's different to sing at the Red Rocks, man.
You get caught up listening to yourself.
That means it's also alive, you know?
Yeah, so and then we've been, you know, Spain, Amsterdam together.
We were in Trinidad and St.
Vincent last year and earlier this year before covid, you know,
working with the government over in St.
Vincent talking about breeding specific varieties.
Yeah, definitely. And.
The government, they were so interested
in what we had to bring to the table that they wanted to
like issue this license on arrival to cultivate.
And I specifically like what they were trying to do at the college.
With the greenhouses and stuff, you know,
because that's a step going forward for that island
because they breed a lot of CBD.
Right. And thinking it's, you know, commercial marijuana they have. So.
The actual actually we go in there and breed in
with their local strain and trying to get something authentic.
And in the future, I know it's going to be a positive play for us.
So I'm looking forward for that, you know.
Right. Yeah. So one of the strengths in our line of Jafada,
that one, it's amnesia times super lemon haze.
And that was specifically designed for the Caribbean because the open bud
structure, you know, and we've been talking a long time about something
with an open bud structure that has potency that would go really well
in the Caribbean.
And I'm so I'm excited to actually get that strain down there
and start breeding up with their local land, raise strain.
And, you know, I mean, getting our our seeds
established in the Caribbean as like well as the world, you know, because
we we make it the seed to facilitate everyone.
We want our product to be a worldwide name, you know. Right.
Definitely. Is that it?
I believe so. Yes.
And so, you know, it's a and that's not finished in flower, obviously,
by the by the white hairs. Yeah. Yeah.
Those pistols are still white, but it's a it's a heavy producer.
It's definitely equatorial with that.
That open bud structure is really what Marlon and I are trying to capture
with varieties down there.
Yeah. For the especially for the Caribbean, you know.
Yeah. We did a nice big talk with the Cannabis Authority.
We did a presentation.
It was supposed to be 30 minutes, and it ended up being three hours.
And I would say two hours and 45 minutes of questions.
The the thing I love about St.
Vincent was that they're really eager to learn about the medical benefits
and also the varieties and understanding that it's more than THC.
So I feel like we're behind in some regards in the United States
that everyone's so focused on THC and they're really looking
at the medical side of it and looking at it scientifically.
I feel like most of the people down there with the Cannabis Authority have degrees
and it's just a beautiful thing.
And and everyone is on top of their research
as far as it comes to what else
could the plant produce beside THC?
You know, so I applaud them for that, because they were more looking to be
like a main hub for medical cannabis in the Caribbean.
So that was a plus, that something that I applaud them for at that time.
It's going to be the Caribbean is going to be a hub for sure.
So we're trying to
go ahead and get down there and make sure,
you know, that the right product comes out of what they're going to be producing.
Yeah, it's so much more than just giving people genetics.
I think it's one thing to sell seeds to people.
And it's another thing to educate people on how to properly cultivate
so they can get good results, because genetics is, you know,
I would say first and foremost, it's genetics is the foundation for everything.
But you can go to a place like St.
Vincent and we went around and saw a lot of the cultivators out there licensed
and, you know, unlicensed farmers that were growing for themselves.
And the thing is, is their knowledge base was so low,
they didn't understand basic agriculture.
And so, you know, our job, I feel, you know, and Marlon,
you know, we're a big, big supporter of trying to educate people
so we can improve the quality of their end product.
You know, genetics, obvious. That's that's an obvious one.
But just, you know, a basic understanding of soil.
You know, I think
for the most part, other than the big companies coming in, there's there's like
there's a little bit of a disconnect.
Some people in several places in the world, not just in St.
Vincent, but they feel like you give the plant water and it's going to grow.
And, you know, having the cannabis authority so backed by science,
you know, that's that's why we love St. Vincent so much.
It was like getting the support of the government where we don't even get that
in the United States.
I feel like we're more of a burden in the United States for the most part.
Whereas, you know, places like St.
Vincent, they're welcoming science, they're welcoming that kind of stuff.
You know, and even if we made no money down there,
I would be happy to be there
because I feel like we're doing something for the greater good.
And at the end of the day, that's kind of what this is all about.
You know, it's it's a beautiful thing.
Yes, it's also it will also be nice to know that we pass that genetics
on to them and they, you know, I mean, doing something good out of it.
It's not just about what we get out of it, but what we give into,
you know, giving back to people, especially where medical cannabis is concerned.
We have, you know, I mean, a lot of people that could benefit from.
Medical cannabis in the Caribbean.
So it's nice to see the government holding fast to that, you know? Yeah.
Yeah, so I guess let's talk a little bit about the gelato 41 crosses
that we have on, and they were made with loud canna genetics.
They're being released through
loud canna is my other partner company that I'm collaborating with.
It's a new stuff that is also getting launched today on seeds here now
and also Daga dot love.
You can check out our seeds.
We got a really good show special today.
I believe it's $30 for a five pack for anything on the line today.
And then it's going to go back up and all those gelato 41 crosses
are going to be $140 for 10 packs tomorrow.
But we got farmer TKO that the farmer TKO
is a triangle Kush OG Kush gelato 41 cross.
And Marlon's favorite strain is as long as I've known him.
OG Kush.
Well, this is this is something that a lot of people that love OG
Kush is going to, you know, appreciate this strain.
Farmers TKO is something I hold dear to me.
I really love, you know, the way that this strain is, you know.
Yeah, that's a that's a blessing to be it up there right now.
You guys could check this strain out.
It's one of our best, one of our good contenders
as far as having a strong, strong genetic, you know.
This. Yeah, this is going to be something
that people are going to be talking about soon, you know.
Yeah, I feel like it has a good foundation.
You know, if you look at the gelato 41, we specifically with like
canning, the gelato 41, it was something that was a little more stable
than the other varieties as far as intersexual traits.
It reverses nice, puts out a lot of pollen,
but it also has the characteristics of the gelato that we like.
Yes. So.
Yeah, I'm all about the purple.
Yeah, yeah, you missed that, James.
Look at the screen.
Marlon's favorite strain.
Favorite strain.
That should be the name of a strain.
We could totally do that.
I think Ganja Farmer, the actual Ganja Farmer OG
will be released sometime next year.
You know, we've been working on that one for a long time, getting it right.
We had a release of it that I think people were happy with
when I was doing Loud Seeds and now moving on from Loud Seeds.
Marlon and I will be releasing our own Ganja Farmer OG sometime next year.
That's going to be an exclusive release.
We'll probably have some cool freebies and giveaways.
I'm anticipating sometime after COVID for that.
But, you know, it's got to be right.
That's the other thing with Marlon and I.
We we like business to be organic.
We like all this stuff to come naturally.
And when it happens, it'll happen.
If it doesn't happen right away, it's no stress.
Yeah, because we want we want it to be
one of the best contenders as far as OG Kush.
Everyone has OG Kush.
But this OG Kush is going to pack a punch, you know.
It's going to be real nice.
Someone says, how's it do outdoors?
Well, I guess if you're talking about the farmer TKO, I think you get
really good high quality.
It has a dense bud structure.
So it depends on the region.
You know, if you're talking about outdoors, it's like we're outdoors.
If we're talking about the Caribbean, maybe not in the Caribbean.
Maybe this is more of a California strain meant to be grown
in northern California outdoor.
It's just kind of depending on where you grow.
I think that's, you know, that's a question that has.
We need several pieces of information to give you a good answer on that.
But yeah, it's a OG Kush.
Go, got to love it.
And then the gelato 41.
So you get some creaminess.
You get some of the little bit of the lavender and floral with it.
You know, you're going to find all those nice things in the phenotypes.
So the next one, lemon sorbet, golden lemons.
This is one of my favorite strains from DNA.
Golden lemons, big ups to DNA.
They got a lot of good stuff.
But that golden lemons is a hitter.
It's a yielder.
It's a sour diesel times
lemon skunk.
I find I'm pretty sure it's a lemon skunk times sour diesel.
And it's a big ass producer.
You get big plants.
So it's like you're going to get some of the lemon with the gelato.
And that one, I feel like
that's going to be a hitter.
It's going to be a hitter.
And that one specifically for outdoors is going to be a great variety.
You know, indoors, too.
You're looking at some longer flowering times with some of the phenos.
But, you know, I think it's a great one.
And it's a very complimentary strain with the gelato.
Forty one being gelato.
Forty one is super trendy and hot right now.
It's great to have something that complements it.
Yeah. Yeah.
So and then Marlon came up with the name lemon sorbet.
And I feel like that's a great description.
You get that that lemon with the with the creaminess from the gelato.
Yeah, exactly.
That the creaminess.
But you could tell the creaminess is there from just looking at it.
The smell is lemony, but you can see the creaminess in it.
It's going to be, you know, one of those strain that stays around a long time.
Yeah.
Definitely lemon sorbet.
Yeah. And then the other 41 we're offering is the Candyland times
gelato 41 Candyland.
Wonderful strain.
You get a lot of sweet stuff in there.
You get color.
And so the color with that with the gelato 41, you get dark phenos.
Just quickly, which one is this?
This would be the jelly beans.
The jelly beans.
Well, you know, the strain we wanted to call it jelly beans
because of the resemblance to like the sweetness and the punch that it puts out.
But jelly beans and jelly bean, I guess
jelly bean was the original name of jelly bean.
So we put loud jelly beans as a, you know, not not related to jelly bean
whatsoever, but but has beautiful flavor and character and that beautiful color.
Yeah. So right there.
Right there.
Yeah, I'll have to get some better pictures for you,
but the structure is nice and tight on that one.
You get some beautiful buds and there you go.
There you go.
That's that's what looks like it.
And you know,
if once you grow it out, you will
definitely be aware of the aroma that comes from,
you know, this plant is going to is going to fill to whatever room
it's in or whatever yard it's it's planted in.
It's going to fill the yard with this nice, fruity aroma.
Aroma, you know, a lot of loudness.
Yeah. Loud, loud. It's it's.
Yeah, you go like it.
Anyone who knows good genetics, you know, would just understand that
the way the plant is structured and the aroma and the look of it,
you know, it's going to be definitely one that people is going to run to.
Yeah. And then auto flower, we felt like we needed a good auto flower
for for for everybody from from the Ganja Farmer Seed Company.
Auto flower genetics, something that finishes in less than 70 days
from germination.
So we have the West Coast Auto Ogee Times Skywalker Auto.
The West Coast Ogee is one of the fast buds ones.
And so I was experimenting breeding about a year and a half ago,
just putting pollen on stuff and the Skywalker Auto
that me and my partner had made.
We I reversed some of the pollen, put it on one of the West Coast ones.
And finally, I think we got something that's pretty gassy right there,
you know, and it's a chunker.
It chunks up. It's got the gas.
It's got everything that you want in an auto flower.
And it's just they're very they're very easy to grow.
Yet they can be very hard to grow if you make it hard to grow.
I mean, auto flowers.
You know, I think a lot of people say they're easy to grow.
They can they are easy to grow, in my opinion.
But I think if you're a traditional farmer that's been growing 20 years
and you're stuck in your own ways and you try to go auto flower,
you're going to fail if you try to do it your way.
They require something a little bit different.
You know, it's kind of like the difference of cooking a turkey
as opposed to cooking a duck.
Duck. Yeah.
Being I'm a chef.
Also, it's a it's a great analogy,
especially with Thanksgiving being yesterday.
I did a goose, which is very different than a turkey.
That's very German.
My mom would approve.
She hates turkey.
She thinks it's like the the most uninspiring bird.
And I did a turkey breast for you know, we had two people over.
So it was just the four of us.
And I did a turkey breast in case people wanted white meat.
But I love goose.
It was a tradition I had as a kid.
I'm Finnish and Swedish.
And so as a kid, we always had stuff
that was a little bit different than everybody else.
You know, it's like we had prune tarts.
A lot of people don't like prunes. I love prune tarts.
We had a left, so which is like a tortilla that has butter and sugar in the middle.
And then we always have my grandmother's 70 year old stuffing or dressing recipe.
So are the seeds on the site feminized?
Yes, they are all feminized.
Yeah.
A one that are the autos also feminized.
All my autos are feminized.
You will not get me.
I will never release an auto flower that is regular.
Yeah, you can hold me to that.
Let me update that on the website.
Carry on.
Yes. All of them.
And the price is right.
I think you're offering them for $30 for a five pack.
You can't beat that because tomorrow they're going to be $140 for a 10 pack.
Or if you want to buy a 10 pack today, it'd be $140.
That doesn't make much sense.
But, you know, we wanted to get seeds in people's hands,
show people how good the genetics are.
Get people started with, you know, experimenting in the earth with it.
See how they grow out.
That's most important.
You know how people appreciate how they grow out and the yield they get from it.
So we today, the $30
today deal is going to tomorrow is going to change.
We all know what's going on.
We're trying to give away seeds today.
Yeah. I mean, it's below wholesale.
It's a you know, but I feel like it's been a tough year.
I know I've had a great year myself, but I know a lot of people have been struggling,
you know, all over the world.
Covid has not been easy for a lot of people.
You know, this is a chance to, you know, do something for someone else.
You know.
Yeah. Everyone know the rough year we had this year, man.
And, you know, I just pray God that people come out of it smiling
and at least have some seeds for their crop.
Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, we've had you've had a rough year with the music industry, man.
It's been tough with you not going on tour.
Yeah. Well, that is that especially has been a kind of depressing.
But, you know, it's still nice to be able to make music here and there.
Still, I just had a performance with stupid
driving settings.
That was nice, you know.
So there's still hope, you know, for the music.
And I just want to say, you know, to all the fans and all the people
that love the music, you know, hang on.
We got to come back stronger than before.
It's going to be, you know, a lot of performance going down soon and.
Everyone is going to be able to enjoy some good music live again.
I must say that. Yeah.
And no one would be upset if you played a couple of songs
on an episode of The James Loud Show.
Oh, that's all good.
That's what we're about.
You know, we're about promoting our seven.
You know, this is this is a James Loud show.
You know what I'm saying?
What better way to say hi to the world than through a platform
where, you know, I mean, thousands of people just coming on just to say hi.
It's a blessing.
Yeah, my soul, Mrs.
Your soul, Mrs.
Reggae. We all miss reggae music.
That's a serious thing.
That's been a foundation in our lives for as long as we can, you know.
Remember, so we of course, we're going to miss it, but I will say
music will be back with a blast soon, you know.
Yeah, live music has been part of us for so long, you know.
Oh, man, we can't even remember our first concert, but we remember loving it.
So someone has a question.
Have you seen any herms from reversing our autos?
I would say that we've done a lot of testing and this stuff, you know, it's like
so my partner, Tim and Kyle, these guys up in Seattle,
they've done extensive testing on the phenotypes
and the progeny from reversing the gelato 41, like, for instance, the wedding cake.
Tim reversed the wedding cake and realized that it wasn't a good.
He's the one who I think in some of my previous episodes
I've talked about wedding cake being a good receiver and not a good donor.
Well, Tim, Tim is the one who figured that out.
And I was with the gelato 41.
The progeny actually has a very low intersexual traits.
I think one thing with feminized seeds indoors is they can be stressed out
and you can get a higher rate of intersexual traits.
But in a good environment, you're not going to get herms.
I have too many beans already.
I grabbed a pack of the glue auto and farmer TKO.
Thanks for the opportunity to try your genetics and much appreciated.
She does appreciate that.
Yeah, I mean, being able to make seeds and have have seeds
and share them with other people,
it's just an amazing thing.
And then someone's jumping ahead here, but we're going to get to it soon.
But what's the lineage on the dark sunset?
So the dark sunset is
that that one's for the other release from with James Bean.
And that one is sunset sherbert times gelato 41.
And so you can't go wrong with that.
I feel I feel like
if you're looking for exotic and you're looking for some interesting phenotypes
that are exotic, like a lot of the other popular trendy stuff right now.
There you go.
That one's a great one.
And that's one of the loud ketogenic strains.
And that price point, they've already sold out on seeds here now, I believe.
So if you want them, you got to get them from Daggett.
Love. Yeah.
So updating that on the website to the lineage.
Oh, yeah. If you don't have the lineages, just let me know.
I have them all right here.
OK, so how about you want to post the logo
if you posted the logo in here with the gun?
Oh, yeah, that's awesome.
So so tell the back story of it.
Hold on. Let me queue it up.
You were when you were like, you nailed it.
That's exactly what I want.
So we've been talking about logos for a long time with Marlon.
And this is what I envisioned
for for I don't know. I don't know how long.
And he has a designer that was designing something that was cool.
He's got something really cool that was very commercial and commercially appealing.
And I said, I want Marlon's face.
Marlon is the ganja farmer.
Now we're all ganja farmers, but Marlon is the ganja farmer.
And Marlon's partner, Nate, sent me a mock up with as he sent it to all of us.
And it was like, oh, shit, that's the one that's it.
It's it says I feel it says everything that needs to be said about ganja
pharmacy company, you know, has the Marlon with his face, with the psychedelic.
You know, it's just it's his album cover is where they got it from, too.
Yeah, yeah.
And actually, do you approve?
I do approve, you know, because
after trying hard to get something that, you know.
Everyone will be comfortable with, you know.
When this one was done and.
Everyone was like, this is it.
I was pleased because I've been trying hard to get something that
everyone was comfortable with, you see what I'm saying?
Yeah, we're a group of people, and so there's a lot
we do a lot of debating on everything on on every level.
And we talk about it thoroughly.
And, you know, we all have different ideas about what the right way to do it is.
And I just feel that this this logo says it all.
It's a it's amazing.
And when I saw it, the second I saw it, I was like, that's it.
That that's the that is the logo.
That's what we you know, you know, and it's I'm sure everybody had the same feeling.
It's just it's one of those things you look at it.
It's like, OK, ganja farmer.
I've known Marlon since he had short hair, long hair to short hair to
long hair to short hair.
Yeah, I'm always cut my hair and grow it because I like to grow my hair out, you know?
Yeah. And you like going where it's hot.
And so the longer it gets, the worse it is.
I mean, I had long hair when we met and I cut my hair in 2014
and haven't had it back since.
But man, I don't miss the summers with long hair.
Exactly. And in the Caribbean, you know,
the humid, hot and sweaty more time.
Sometimes you just got to, you know, take off a little light,
lighten up a little bit and, you know, enjoy the cool.
I cut my hair a lot, though, if you know this, that James, I cut my hair a lot.
I was born with a head cold and I don't like to irritate the cold and get it all.
You know, I'm saying because I like to be free to sing when I have to sing
and not have a clogged nostrils.
So I cut my hair a lot to keep away the cold from my sinuses, you know?
Yeah, you're you're pretty sensitive to temperature change, too.
Exactly. And humidity, humidity.
You get used to that Caribbean humidity and then come back to California
where it's all dry. It's like, oh,
well, lucky we're not in Colorado.
You know how that happens in Colorado.
I could hardly breathe. You know that.
Oh, man. Altitude.
I have a hard time performing in Colorado because of the altitude, you know?
So but it's always fun, though, you know, always fun.
Yeah, so Marlon and I were going to launch seeds at Spanibus this year in March.
Him and I had planned.
We had a big booth set up with a bunch of other brands
and we had paid for the booth.
We had our stuff all shipped over.
We have seeds still waiting over there.
That went sideways real quick.
Oh, my God.
COVID happened so fast, I didn't even know what hit me.
I was just in Spain enjoying some, you know, I mean, beautiful sunset.
And then at the time the sun was down, it was chaos.
Had to leave.
Man, you know, they always say nothing happened before time, you know,
and I think, you know, this was meant to happen so we could,
you know, I mean, get everything that we wanted to straighten out,
you know, in place so this could happen right away.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it was kind of hectic over there.
You know, we were there a week.
Marlon and his his crew were coming to perform.
And so we had Judah and Rico and a bunch of other guys
and coming in to perform.
And then, you know, me and my friends were there to get the booth ready
and rock stuff out. We were having a good time, man.
It was a.
It was really it was kind of scary in some ways because they'd been saying,
oh, yeah, yeah, it's going to be fine.
We're going to have Spanibus and all this other stuff.
And then all of a sudden Donald Trump gets on and basically calls
for international travel to cease.
And so literally that was on, I think, a Thursday night
or Friday.
Well, it was it was Wednesday and Thursday early morning at like two a.m.
We were about to have our last drinks before we went to the hotel
and Trump gets on the television.
We're over in Spain.
And literally one of my friends was on the airport 45 minutes.
And then he bumped into my friend Mike.
Yeah. He bumped into you and Judah.
Yeah. Because the airport has, you know, it was like everyone.
Looking for their their span, their.
The judges package.
Everyone looking around for their judges package.
And in an instant, everybody's phone went off.
An alarm on everybody's phone went off and like from smiling faces
to like people screaming.
And so I just decided, you know what, let me go to the airport
and see if I can get back to my wife and kid, you know.
So that's how I end up.
And then I met him at the airport.
He was like, oh, man, as soon as I heard that I was out, I say I did the same thing.
Yeah, he freaked out.
And we had I mean, I bet he packed in 10 minutes.
I don't think I've ever seen somebody pack so fast to get off to the airport.
Well, man, it was it was kind of scary
because people screaming and not understanding what going on.
You know, so I just say, you know what, the calmest thing I can do
is take myself to the airport.
Yeah, we've gotten really used to the whole COVID thing compared to then.
It was a kind of, you know, yeah.
Not that COVID is not real or COVID is not bad.
I think COVID is really bad.
But, you know, at that time, we didn't know very much.
And so it was it was pretty scary.
I mean, I think people were thinking that people were going to be found
dead in the streets at that time.
People were thinking, how am I going to get home?
They're going to close airports and screaming.
So it was kind of hectic.
But you know how God works.
You don't give you more than you can bear.
You can always think it's peace and safety, but
you have to be aware of sudden destruction.
Yeah. So I guess for us all.
Yeah, we're blessed to be here where we're at and, you know, selling seeds.
Yeah, it's just it's beautiful.
Being able to share your genetics with other people, you know, there's nothing
better, you know, as somebody who's been growing for a long time
to move to that next level and start breeding quality genetics
that you can share with other people.
You know, it's a great feeling.
And then when you see people actually buying them, that's a whole nother thing.
You know, that's a different feeling as a feeling of accomplishment,
because, you know, people actually approve of you
or soon will be approved after they buy it and try it.
There will be, you know, people approve of your product.
That's a it's a wonderful feeling, you know?
Yeah. And, you know, it's funny because the whole covid thing with me,
I was really kind of looking at more of just staying with the commercial side
because I do bulk seeds, so I make large amounts of seeds
and I sell them to other ag companies and other breeders.
And so if covid never happened, I don't know if I would have retail
seeds available, I wouldn't be here today doing what we're doing,
talking about selling packs of seeds.
And, you know, covid in some ways really grounded me
because I was traveling all around the world all the time.
It was nonstop. I was on a plane three times a week.
I was getting on a plane to somewhere four times a week.
And it really kind of grounded me.
You know, the consulting stuff.
Kind of has gone away a little bit so I could focus on on these brands
and making more seeds and making more quality seeds.
I mean, I'm still doing the bulk seed, but I'm really excited to have stuff
that can get in the hands of people that are on Instagram
and people that are people that enjoy cannabis just in general.
I feel like we're offering some really amazing stuff.
And my collaborations with Marlon and with the Canagenics guys,
it's like we're doing some amazing things.
And I feel like it's something that we can all be proud of.
Exactly. Some futuristic changes made and made and seeds
and making some big move, you know, with,
you know, the genetics that we having.
And I hope people understand that these genetics are bred
specifically for, you know, you can.
These are bred specifically for the marijuana lover,
because I'm a heavy smoker, so I kind of breathe it
towards the vibes that I like and that people would appreciate.
So I want everyone who gets it would appreciate it.
And I hope you all enjoy these.
You know, it's going to be many more coming.
You know, we have a lot of genetics that we put together and we currently,
you know, growing our stuff to see how, you know, it looks and tastes.
And so we can put some vibes on it.
So there's a lot more coming.
But these are a few seeds that we start with here.
Everyone should try and get some of these seeds in their house,
because this is going to be the next talked about genetics.
Trust me. You heard about all the strains that came out
and made a name for themselves, the chem dog.
These are going to be some of those strains that we definitely going to hit hard.
Yeah. So someone says, have all seeds been tested?
I stress test everything.
Not only do I stress test the stuff before we make seeds
and with my partners, we all stress test,
but we also test the varieties before we sell it.
I don't sell anything that hasn't been tested.
And I never, you know, I never will.
I ran into a problem years ago.
And, you know, sometimes the best learning experiences
are the ones you experience yourself, you know,
and the hardest lessons you learn.
You know, I've sold stuff that was untested.
And really, you know, I lost respect from some people
and I think it was a hard lesson, but it's something that I learned.
You don't do that as a seed company, you know,
for other seed companies that are watching
and other people that are aspiring to be breeders, test everything.
There's no reason not to.
It's got to be about more than money.
And the thing is, is one bad crop, you ship out some bad seeds,
you know, not naming any names,
but there's some other big companies that have broken up
because they released stuff that didn't germinate,
you know, it's and without that, you know,
without that one mistake, they'd probably still be rocking together
and they were selling seeds for a lot of money.
But don't release stuff that's not tested.
It's just a no-no.
And I mean, I think a lot of people do it.
There's some examples of people that are okay with doing it.
You know, I think for the most part,
I feel like most of the guys test their stuff out.
What was that question again, Peter?
Just bought four packs.
That was Jesse.
And then a follow-up to the last question was from Huncho.
How many seeds do you test before releasing?
At least a hundred.
And you know, we're working in several scenes
where we can actually test a hundred.
And then, you know, also I have tester packs that go out to friends.
I'm not looking for people to test my gear out right now.
I get that question a lot.
I do it in-house and I do it with friends, you know,
a lot of times so that I can actually go see the plants.
Or, you know, the same thing with my friends up north.
They're testing stuff out
and we're trying to test a minimum of a hundred seeds.
And I like that round number, a hundred,
because then you can work off percentages.
Like let's say you have intersexual traits.
You can say, okay, three of them had intersexual traits
or one of them had intersexual traits
or what kind of phenotypes do we have on these now?
So if we have a hundred, where are the phenotypes?
Where do they break down?
Are we having, you know, a hundred that are, you know,
with a hundred or we have 50 that lean towards this way,
15 that lean towards this way.
Do we have 75% that lean in one direction?
You know, if I had bigger space,
obviously I'd probably use bigger stuff.
But for testing stuff, I think a hundred is a nice round number.
My auto flower stuff gets tested in much larger numbers
just because there's so many people producing auto flower
on large scale in California
that I can give a thousand to somebody
and have them test them out.
No problem.
People always love free seeds.
So do we have some questions from the viewers,
you know, about either genetics, about our genetics?
Marlon, myself, anything?
Yeah, give me, everybody queue up your questions.
Well, let me just quickly, have we run through,
so we did the jelly beans, right?
Lemon sorbet, ja-fa, yeah, we did everything.
Yep.
Yep.
Okay.
That's why I must be careful.
Well, let me lead it off.
I mean, you know, Marlon, you grew up in Jamaica, correct?
No, Trinidad.
Trinidad, okay.
You need to have my friend, Colin's dad's hot sauce,
scotch bonnets.
I'll send you some.
It's the hottest hot sauce I've ever had.
Make it fresh at home.
So, well, for the two of you, I mean, Marlon, you know,
growing up in Trinidad and then James coming in from the
outside, can you guys kind of talk about what you've seen
historically in Caribbean, like from island to island, you
know, from the 70s to today?
You know, someone a while ago said, you know, are they
African origin genetics or like where is stuff coming
from? Like, what can you talk about kind of the Caribbean
state of the union past present?
Well, let me say, as far as where the strains coming from
in the Caribbean, I can't really say exactly to which
region, you know, the genetics is, but a lot of places in
the Caribbean, you see a lot of the same strains and a lot
of the same, the same traits in the plants, you know.
The Caribbean has come a long way as far as marijuana up
to date because back in the days, you couldn't even be seen
smoking a spliff.
You get jail time for more than, you know, up to 10 years.
Let's say up to 10 years, the average smoker had gone to
jail in the Caribbean.
And now we're seeing where it's being decriminalized and
now we're seeing where governments looking to capitalize on
the medical issues.
And so a lot of the weed in the Caribbean is, you know,
really in dire need of some more firm genetics as far as
making a product where the Caribbean could be proud of using
and calling a medical product or even a commercial smoking
product.
So being from the Caribbean and seeing all this and
coming to California and seeing the different strain of
marijuana.
Obviously, I would want to implement this to my country
so, and the Caribbean at large.
So I guess, you know, how can I put it?
You know, all that, all the, all the genetics over the years
that the Caribbean has, some of them were kind of more on
the hemp side.
But now we can breed that out and we see the Caribbean doing
stuff like hemp exchange and doing stuff like, you know, so
the Caribbean is really doing well, you know, as far as marijuana
progressing in the Caribbean.
But things like Lamb's Breath and kind of things that, uh,
Lamb's Breath.
Can you talk about it?
Orange Hill, Lamb's Breath.
This is a strain specific to Jamaica and the people in Jamaica,
you know, were, the people in Orange Hill, you know, they have
a strain that is unique to them on the hill there.
You know, the Lamb's Breath that comes out of there.
I think that strain derives from Africa because the fact that,
you know, the maroons in the days of sleep, they took to the
hills, you know, they kept, held fast to the day, up to today.
So I guess, you know, they held what they come with as far as
growing this strain and this strain has been there for quite
some number of times.
You can always know it's a, you will always know when you smoke
that, that it's different, you know, you could smoke weed all
day in Jamaica and get a spliff of that in the night and you'll
realize that this is something different.
So I guess they kept that strain.
I'm not so, you know, I mean familiar with anyone up there
that has the actual strain, but I have smoked it before and
it's, you know, it's something that once you smoke it once you
always trying to get it again, but you don't really get that
more than once as far as I see.
Yeah, that Orange Hill is a, you know, I was in Jamaica in 2000
and we smoked some Orange Hill and literally, I brought
California weed with me.
It's funny, the Jamaica, because I got to have my good smoke.
I brought OG and some other stuff and right from the time we
got in the cab in Ocho Rios, the cab driver is trying to hook
us up with drugs and weed and I was like, yeah, let me get some
of the local weed.
I want the land-raised stuff and the guy looked at me crazy,
but he's like, I'll get you some weed, give me 20 bucks.
And so I gave him 20.
He ran into this house in this ghetto ass part of town, came
back with stuff and it was like seeds and scraps.
I'm like, oh man, you can keep it.
You can keep my 20 bucks, but you can keep the weed too.
So we got to the hotel and we went, we stayed at Super Clubs,
Hugh Hefner owned Super Clubs or whatever back in the day and
it was a Super Clubs, Gran Lido, San Susi and it was, I guess
we flew into Montego Bay and then went to Ocho Rios and the
guy that was stocking our beer in our hotel room.
He was asking if I need stuff.
I said, get me some good weed.
And so here's 20 bucks.
He went out the next day.
He brought back some garbage.
And so I said, I need the better stuff.
Can you get me anything better?
He said, yeah, probably.
I'm like, here's 50 bucks.
Find me something better.
Comes back the next day, same thing.
It was like crap.
And I'm like, okay, I gave him two nugs, two fat, fat nugs,
like that to his guy.
I'm like, whoever you buy weed from, give him this stuff and
tell him I want the real deal, whatever it is.
I don't care.
I'll pay whatever for it.
Get me the real deal.
I want the shit that they smoke.
And so the next day he came back with two spliffs.
It was all rolled up and there was no strain name attached to
it, but we smoked it at like nine in the morning and fell
asleep to like seven at night and we didn't even finish the
whole spliff.
And I'm pretty sure, you know, looking back to that was Orange
Hill.
Yeah, it's like some of those Jamaican ones were potent.
They really had the potency down.
That is what I was talking about.
You can smoke weed all day in Jamaica, but once you smoke
that weed from Orange Hill, you're going to know it's a
difference.
You get high, your eyes get so red that you actually see
red.
It's a real nice feeling.
It's a real nice strain to smoke.
Yeah, Jeanette and I were out.
Yeah, I mean, it's narcotic.
Narcotic is the best word.
I mean, it's narcotic like a drug.
He'd have smoked in Jamaica, I must say.
Yeah, and a lot of the stuff in Trinidad is more CBD based.
If not a hundred percent CBD, 50% CBD, 40% CBD.
It's lower THC, but they also pull fairly early over there.
Yeah, so it's interesting, but I think all those things are
going to change in the near future.
You know that like with what we're trying to do in, oh, see
what's Jamaican landmines weren't very strong.
Yeah, that's not right.
Yeah, this is kind of what you guys are talking about.
Yeah, right now.
I think for the most part in the Caribbean, cannabis is not
very strong, but if you go to the right places in Jamaica,
you get the old lamb bread that musky smelling lambs bread
that has that funk to it or that orange Hill.
Oh man, those are strong as fuck.
Those will get you.
That's the strongest weed I've smoked in Jamaica, hands down.
I must say that, that orange Hill string and you don't really
get it like that.
Someone has to know the people up there.
The last time I went there, I won't lie, I drove to Orange Hill
and I stayed to the foot of the hill and this old guy, he climbed
up the hill and he brought me back like a half pound of weed.
So I had that lamb's bread all through my visit the last time
I've been to Jamaica, you know what I'm saying?
Because I drove to Orange Hill to get that.
I didn't really want anybody bring it to me.
I drove there and got it.
Yeah, I'm looking forward to going back to Jamaica.
We need to do a trip.
Yeah, definitely because now I know exactly where to go get
that string.
Yeah, we got a bunch of friends over there too, you know, it's
like and then Ed Rosenthal, one of my good buddies, he's consulting
over there.
I think right now he's doing mostly video consulting, but yeah,
I would love to help change the way people look at herb over
in the Caribbean.
I think that's a beautiful thing on its own too.
Yeah, and the outright look, not just how they look at the herb,
but the outright way they, you know, the business aspect, everything
about the herbs.
Yeah, it's really interesting because talking about some older
genetics, I've been talking to, you know, on the show I mentioned
cat piss.
I don't know if you remember Peter, I was talking about cat
piss.
And so actually the guy who created cat piss.
There's a reward for it, right?
There was a reward for it.
But guess what?
I found the guy.
The guy actually contacted me who created the cat piss and him
and I have been talking about doing some breeding project together
potentially and just beyond that talking about how, you know,
because he actually lost the original and so he's bred the cat piss
seeds that he had.
He had a male.
He put it on some one of the kosher cuts from DNA, the kosher
kush and that kosher kush, he calls it a kosher kitty.
And so they're hoping with the seeds that they have left to find
something.
I think, you know, it's as unique as anything else and I feel like
with those old genetics, it'd be great to get a lot of that old
stuff back.
You know, it's just like getting Orange Hill to the States, getting
lambs bread.
Yeah, you know.
That will be a high point to get that lambs bread up here and get
a good breed off of it.
Yeah, Sonny Chiba, you know, that was on the show with TGA, Sonny
Chiba.
He's amazing.
He has a the closest thing and I think you and I both saw that at
Harborside when he was working there.
His version, he has a cross of lambs bread and it has that unique
funky chirp that really musky.
And, you know, I mean, I would love to work with lambs bread just
like I love to work with a lot of these interesting genetics.
Yeah, but I think the lambs bread will be a real good, you know,
strain to work with because if we could get that, we'll be, you
know, on top of the game as far as having a strain that no one
has.
Totally.
I'll be blessed.
So Peter, do we got any more questions from the crowd?
Yeah, we got a lot of questions.
Let me.
So someone asked just kind of pheno descriptions, maybe running
down the line.
Well, pheno description.
Sure.
We can go through pheno descriptions as far as if we're talking
about the amnesia and super lemon haze and you're getting something
that has an open bud structure.
Just quickly, which one is that?
That would be Jaffata.
And I'm going to send you a list too, so you can put that up,
Peter.
But that one is a, you know, as far as stability, I feel like,
you know, we're taking two things that are close to an IBL and
breeding them together.
And the reason is heterosis.
You know, we talked about that on the EnerGene show, how if you
take two stable lines, you, you, genetic diversity creates
heterosis.
You know, I actually learned something really, really amazing
on that show, which is that if you take two, a hundred percent
stable lines that have no genetic diversity that have pure
homozygosity and you cross those things together, you will get
one thing that is 50% both in the middle.
And so down the road, that's what we're going to try to achieve
with a lot of our stuff.
But with that, the amnesia, if you're familiar with the haze, I
feel like it's a, they're both early finishing haze varieties.
And so you're going to get a lot of that lemon, terpenylene,
limonene, if you like that combination.
Also with high yield and vigor, the varieties are great.
If you're growing in a tropical region or someplace hot, they'll
handle heat, they'll handle humidity.
And that's the beauty of the open bud structure.
When you have something with an open bud structure, it allows
moisture to go in and out of it.
So therefore in really humid regions, those plants thrive.
Whereas something like an OG Kush, for example, something with
a very tight bud structure, a very closed bud structure, if moisture
gets in, you get botrytis, you get powdery mildew, you get the
plants more susceptible to things with moisture where it'll
hold the moisture and the moisture can potentially do damage.
Farmers TKO, that's Triangle Kush, Gelato 41, you're going to
get stuff that is gassy, both of those strains have a lot of gas
in them as it is, so you get gassy, you get a little bit of lavender,
you get a little bit of a tighter structure than the Gelato 41,
for say, and you get high THC.
Golden lemons, again, that's one of those 50-50s because the sour
diesel and the lemon skunk.
Is this the lemon sorbet?
Is this the lemon sorbet?
Yep.
So with that golden lemons, you get something that has an open bud
structure that definitely leans more equatorial, and then you have
the Gelato 41, and you're going to find some of the phenos have an
interesting combination of both, and you'll find some that are with
that looser bud structure and some with the tighter bud structure.
That one is one, it's a good one to hunt.
I feel like you'll find some really interesting, unique terps in there
and some really interesting things.
And, you know, I was talking to Tim the other day and, you know, out of
the ones that they were popping, they were finding keepers, keepers
10%, 15%, 20% of what we would consider keepers, which I think is really
high because I'm more of a 1% guy.
If we have a hundred plants, I want to keep one, you know, and I want to
argue about which one we're going to keep till the end.
Sometimes we'll keep five, we'll run them again, or keep 10, we'll run
them again, narrow it down to five, run them again and narrow it down to
one, but I'm all about that 1% at the end of the day.
So, the Candyland Gelato, we went over that earlier, color, fruitiness,
candiness, you get the candy, you get the color, you get the tight bud
structure, you know, and I think those, all of them do well outdoors.
If you're looking for something with that color, I feel like for some
reason, color fetches a higher price outdoor, especially, so Candyland
gets some beautiful color.
And then the Ganja Farmer Kush Auto, that is our OG Kush Auto offering.
So, tight, dense buds, two to three ounces per plant, if you do it right.
You get gas, you get some really nice gas, you get a beautiful color, and
I feel like you get, not full spectrum, but you get the quality flower
that, you know, people aren't going to be calling it auto flower if you're
growing it.
And that's the beauty with, you know, Mephisto and some of these other
big brands, especially Mephisto, but other brands, I would say that some
of the new stuff that's coming out, you wouldn't even call it auto flower.
You're growing it and it smokes just as good as any full-term cannabis.
And that's what we're, you know, we wouldn't offer anything that wasn't
that quality.
I think the seed game is so competitive that if you're not bringing the heat,
people know it and people just won't buy your seeds.
So, end of story.
That's just how it goes with that.
Give me one second.
Any tips for Glulato indoors?
Tips for Glulato indoors?
Sure.
You know, it finishes in 63 days, typically.
In flower, I think that it grows well in most environments.
You know, if you like growing in living soil, I'm a huge fan of living soil
indoors.
We all are.
Marlon and I love soil weed, especially for smoking for the head.
But some, you know, it grows well.
It also grows well under cocoa and rockwool if you're trying to do
production.
I think each one of those things has their place.
You know, I grow in cocoa for seed production, but for smoke, if I'm
growing smoke, I grow living soil.
I have six yards of living soil in my front yard.
I grow plants in.
And for both of you, what are you liking right now?
And then James, he didn't want to leave you out.
So he said, and also James Loud.
Okay, Ramon.
Thanks.
Well, actually, I just grew out my favorite strand for myself.
I'm smoking on it now.
It's the GMO.
I like to smoke that.
This is a strain that, you know, I'm a entertainer.
I like to write songs.
So this keeps me in the mood that I need to really produce music right,
you know.
So this is my go-to strain right now, the GMO.
I personally, we're going to have a strain just now that complements
this from the Ganja Pharma Seed Company soon.
And yeah, it's going to be one of those strains.
Yeah, we can kind of tell people a little bit about it.
I think we're going to do a Christmas release.
It's the 41.
So it's GMO times Gelato 41.
It's going to be our special Christmas release.
We're going to do something special for it.
But yeah, it's GMO.
Marlon loves GMO.
Yeah, it's coming real soon.
And I just want to say that, you know.
So most people smoking weed is for, you know, relaxation and things.
But I like weed that makes me work, you know.
So this is a strain I go to the GMO and look out for this collab,
this cross with GMO coming soon from the Ganja Pharma Seed Company.
It's going to be my favorite strain to smoke.
Yeah, and for me right now, my favorite strain, I mean, I just
like so many.
I'll tell you.
So this is a Gushers times Gelato 41 right here.
This is a Pac Boys.
I was gifted one of these all tied up.
So I don't know if you guys have ever seen all tied up.
But a THAID up all tied up.
It's exclusive.
California.
He's doing collaborations with everybody including these Pac Boys.
Do these pre-rolls?
I think they go for like 200 bucks a piece.
But you know, that's what I'm smoking right now.
They're amazing, you know, and they have I think two grams of flour
and a half gram of concentrate.
So this one has a Beach Wedding Live Rosin in it, a half gram of that
with two grams of 41 times Gushers.
Next level.
Yeah, not for the amateur smoker though.
I'll tell you I had friends over.
Smoked one yesterday.
I smoked about half of it.
They're not for lightweights.
They'll get you.
I mean, but the thing is, is the terpenes are so strong in them.
Makes you want to smoke more and more and more and they actually, you
know, you're like fuck I shouldn't smoke so much.
But uh, yeah, I mean, I really enjoy smoking on some of these exotics.
I still love sour diesel, you know, I'm smoking on sour diesel.
We talk about old school sour diesel.
Love my sour diesel chem 91s.
Um, I'll say I still smoke those all day and usually I'll pick those
over some of the exotic stuff.
Uh, I'm a big fan of the snow Montana and a big ups to the Pluto guys.
You sticky farms up there and gas house.
I love Pluto.
Uh, yeah, Marlon.
I think we talked about this before.
You're not a huge fan of Pluto.
I absolutely love Pluto for me for functioning and for terpene profile.
It's just, I can't get enough of that flavor.
I just love it.
Well, I, you know, for me, the Pluto is kind of, uh, I can't really, I don't
really, I can't adjust to the taste too much, you know, if I smoke it once
I can't smoke it two and three times.
So is there was it.
Yeah.
So it's all, I like to smoke on some GMO more times and you love the gas.
The gas is
gas.
You know that too, James.
Yeah.
It's funny.
Cause I, people that love gas, one of my lawyers, he, uh, he used to smoke OG
Kush and, uh, all day long.
I'll the only thing he'll smoke is OG Kush.
I bet if I call him up now and asked him what his favorite strain is, he'd
still say OG Kush, can you get me some?
Yep.
Yep.
Always.
OG is always a strain to go to that will always satisfy whatever you're looking
for.
You know what I'm saying?
What?
Yeah.
It's what?
It's well rounded.
Let's just say that.
Go ahead, James.
Yeah.
It's a good daytime smoke, man.
It's like, I, it's a good daytime.
It's good nighttime.
It's a, you know, before I want to go out and exercise before I do this, but
before I go to the movies, it's a, yeah, the OG Kush chem, all those, I really,
you know, and I think even sour diesel, I fit into that category.
I think a lot of people smoke sour and it puts them on the couch.
And I think a lot of people smoke OG and it gives them couch lock too, but not
me.
Definitely not you.
We, we smoke plenty of OG.
Well, that, that segues into this question.
So specific is the Josh D and the TK together times the gelato 41.
Hence TKO.
Here's a.
It's the 41st Fino that they found big ups to sure.
Bansky gelato.
Who would have known gelato was going to be the one man.
I feel like gelato is now bigger than Girl Scout cookies was.
It's at least on that level, but it's like, I thought the shirt budget jet.
Just quickly.
He's asking, is it because it's the 41st Fino they found?
Yep.
So they popped a whole bunch of seeds and it was the 40.
There's the, you know, there's a bunch of gelato keepers that they have on the
market.
23, the 33, I don't know all of them, but the 33, the 41, the 45, the 49.
And then there's some other, other ones.
I like the 33.
I've used the 33 in some breeding.
I like the 41 the most.
I, in fact, my candy peel gelato that I made or the purple tan gelato.
That one was used.
We use the 45 for that one.
And 45 has some different character traits.
It's a little bit different.
It's a little bit more, it's a little bit more, it's a little bit more
It has some different character traits.
I think all of them have unique traits and they're all a little bit different
and all over the board.
But yeah, 41, I feel like is the best breeder.
45, Acai, those are all good and they all have names behind them.
So yeah, big fan of gelato.
Sherbancy, you know, amazing.
And then someone asked about kind of if you're breeding outdoors and then
someone brings it indoors kind of acclimation.
I think that's so individual on plant genetics.
Some transfer well, some have no problem.
You can grow them indoors, outdoors.
They do great.
Some are specifically that you should do them outdoors.
I mean, it really depends on the cultivar.
That again is just, it's kind of a loaded question.
We need a lot more information.
But you know, plants will acclimate over a two-year period.
I mean, if you're going to be growing outdoors, breeding outdoors is ideal.
I breed indoor for control.
So I like doing my stuff, but I do pollinating plants and stuff like that
outdoors if I'm breeding for outdoor stuff.
Large-scale auto production is ideal outdoors.
You get so many more seeds.
But I still like using the control of the indoor.
Johnny likes his grape and berry turps.
Well, that's the beauty of that 41 is you get the grapey and the berry turps,
especially from like the Candyland.
I feel like that Candyland you're going to and then the loud jelly bellies in
the Candyland, you know, it's you're going to get that real fruity thing
that you're looking for that lavender grapey kind of turp.
You'll even get that with the farmers TKO.
You'll find some of those phenos have that grapey kind of punchy flavor.
Someone wanted another name of it.
It's not a brand of hot sauce.
It's my friend's dad who's from Trinidad.
Yeah, Trinidadian people like to make hot sauce a lot.
Yeah, so he actually lives in Long Island and growing up his dad always
grew the scotch bonnets in the yard and then at the end of the summer would
make his hot sauce.
So yeah, it's not a but I always wanted to come out with the Clyde's hot
sauce and have like his dad's face on it.
It's not for the faint of heart though.
Like if you can't handle heat, you're going to be fucked.
Yeah, that happened to me in Trinidad.
They said just put a little bit on there.
I put a little bit on there a little bit too much man.
I shouldn't put any on there.
I had a bacon shark.
Oh my face turned red.
My ears turned purple.
We used to fuck with people and just give them like, you know, you put it
on a like a drop on a teaspoon and be like you think you can handle it and
they think they were tough and then they'd be, you know, in the fetal
position.
That's not for the faint of heart.
Yeah, the stuff in squeeze bottles that they have over there just to put
on your food is so hot.
The slightest pepper sauce you get in Trinidad is going to be something
with some spice.
It's gonna be hot.
Yeah, but there is my there is my pepper sauce there too, you know.
But the people on the island, they like it hot, you know, the sun is hot.
You eat some pepper.
You start sweating.
The breeze is blowing on you.
You get cool down.
So it's a it's a strategy as well as oh man.
Yeah, I had bacon shark for the first time in Trinidad.
It's a black tip shark and they have it's a sandwich.
It's like a sandwich that has shark and it has a slaw in it and then it
has all these different sauces and man some of the best food some of the
best Caribbean food I had was definitely in the Trinidad when I went
to Trinidad in St.
Vincent on my last trip there.
Marlon arranged a food tour for me and these guys took me all over and
it was like I got to try some absolutely stunning amazing food, you
know, street food and then also, you know, good restaurant food.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And Trinidad they take pride in what they cook, you know, so everything
is flavored to the the last spoon or the last bite, you know, they take
pride in their food over there, you know, it's yeah, it's amazing and
the bread the bread is so fresh over there.
They have really good bread.
I mean everything's good very fish based.
Yeah, every morning the island small, you know, so but the bread that
people buy every morning is bread that comes every morning.
Yeah, bread that they buy for the nighttime comes before evening so
they could get it fresh.
So it's you know, I mean, it's it's always a fresh based though that
bacon shark is something that people travel from far to try, you know,
legendary.
Yeah, it is.
It is and it was amazing too.
It's hard to describe how good a sandwiches and how we haven't had
them in the United States on that level.
Yep.
Awesome.
Thanks for the order really appreciate it Smalls.
So Bilbo.
Which one of these is most like sour diesel out of all of the offerings.
It would definitely have to be the golden lemon cross, which is lemon
sorbet.
But good news.
We got some sour diesel seeds.
They not not sour diesel but sour diesel cross that will be coming out
later sometime next year.
Marlon and I are working on a gas line for sure.
So can you touch on some of the other the canogenic stuff?
So I can so let's see what we got.
We got a juice box, which was the white runs times the gelato 41.
You got to get those those are going to sell out quick and then we're
out of them.
So the deal today, that's great.
Get them today.
But they're not going to be sold out.
So we're going to have to wait for the next year.
So we're going to have to wait for the next year.
So that's great.
Get them today, but they're going to go quick and then we'll be a hundred
percent out but we're a lot.
Oh, I think we got that available.
That's hurricane times gelato 41.
So you'll get a lot of fruit turp in the phenos with also the lavender and
the color, you know, I think we're a lot of is a fun one glue lotto, which
we've already kind of touched on that's a GG four times times the gelato
41 and that's a hitter, you know, because I feel like you find stuff
that's right in the middle and kind of improves on both of those strains a
little bit, you know, and the funny thing is, is improving on strains is
so subjective, but the best we can try to do is improve genetics and not
take away from stuff and that's using complimentary strains and I feel like
gorilla glue is interesting and complex and you get some, you know, you get
some interesting terpenes, you get some chocolate and some musk and a lot
of gas with that and an interesting structure and then with the gelato
41, you get the color and you get the lavender and together those things.
You're going to find some interesting stuff that gets gas.
So maybe a hint of chocolate, some insight, you know, some real leathery
smells juice box.
We kind of that's that's runs white runs, you know, that's super trendy.
Got to love the runs with that juice box.
I love the name juice box.
It perfectly describes it.
You know, it's like you remember those juice boxes.
We had as kids.
They had that sweet kind of grapey smell like the grape juice box is probably
what we should have been called the grape juice box.
But and as far as structure, I think that one does does really well gelato
41 improves the structure of the runs.
I'm a big fan of that white run smoke and the candy turps that you get out
of it.
And then we got the dark sunset on that one and that would be sunset sherbet
times a lot of 41, which I mentioned earlier.
I think that one is just a no-brainer.
You're just but it's just basically it's going to be something that's going
to be a variation of sherbet and gelato because those are very related.
So with that cross you're going to get stuff that's right in there with both
those.
I mean, we're not reinventing the wheel with that variety for say, but we're
giving you something that's going to be exotic and you're going to find some
interesting winners in there.
Definitely.
I don't know if you know anything about this.
Oh gee 18.
Yeah DNA did a bunch of stuff with og 18.
They had og 18 seeds.
I'm like 90% sure.
I'm not sure.
What are the differences between the different og phenos?
There's so many different og phenos and what is og and what is not og?
I mean, I think there's a lot of renames as well if we look at it, but you
know everything from you know, I just off the top of my head if we go through
like the Tahoe the Diablo the Josh D the Hollywood cut in the Josh D very
similar the ghost in the Josh D and the Hollywood all very similar.
If not the same exact cut the ghost in the Josh are definitely the same cut
that but they've been grown by different people.
So they were separated not at birth, but they were separated when they were
younger and have gone to different paths and but as far as being the same
genetics, I believe they're the same genetics maybe with some epigenetic
changes to them.
And then as far as other the kosher, you know, we're talking about kosher.
We're talking about SF VOG.
They're all slightly different.
But the one thing they have is I would say gas and then pine and lemon and
some have more gas some have more pine some have more lemon SFV Marlon and
I love SFV.
Yeah, that's a good I was waiting for you to say something about that.
SF VOG that was one of the best, you know, I mean strand back in those
times when it just came out and when we first find some SF OG, it was
like man, this is what was you supposed to be and I'm saying all that that
that piney kind of that was that was, you know, a blessing back then.
I love the real deal.
Yeah, I love that straight into.
Yeah, and I mean the the kosher, you know, that's a great OG to the DNA
kosher Kush feel like that has a lot of gas on it and but it's not quite as
piney.
It's got some lemony and it's got it's got a unique I wouldn't say musky, but
it has definitely a really interesting turf profile and it's it's a easy smoke.
Yeah, also gets you nice and high.
But yeah, there's a whole history.
We can do a whole show on OG cuz we could probably do five shows on just OG
Kush and TK and the origins and I you know, I'll get Josh D on here one of
these days.
I've been talking to him a little bit about coming on.
But yeah, I'd be interested.
Yeah, we got a coke some out of his I guess his social media time out or
well, you know what the Josh D episode when you did the interview down at
Venice when I was there with Josh and sun-grown mids in Mojave.
I think it was a Mojave or somebody else Mojave.
Yeah.
Yeah, that was one of the better like panels that I've ever seen in my whole
life, especially with Josh just talking so freely, you know, I Josh D always
has good stuff to say and he's the OG industry guy and
but yeah, we could do a whole episode on just OG Kush and how we feel about
it where it came from where it's gone what it's in now.
And I mean, I think if you look back at like it's one of those staples from
the early 2000s with OG cushion sour diesel that back then those were the
exotics, you know before this Sherbert and before the gelato and the cookies.
We had those those were the winners.
If you had those man, you had that high dollar price point weed.
That was amazing.
So can you run down the line and just talk about what's a fast flowering
average and long flowering?
So let me just start with the I'll just go down.
Let's take a look at the screen.
So we got the loud jelly beans.
I would say all these with with the exception of the the lemon sorbet.
I would say all these are probably 63 days.
So kind of part of how all this came about with the gelato 41 was I had done
some consulting and my THC levels weren't that high when I tested my genetics.
My terpenes were off the chart, but this was in the middle of last year.
And so I was kind of bummed about, you know, having these varieties and we're
shooting for 63 day varieties, especially for a commercial application grown
indoors people like those 63 day varieties with high THC.
And so Tim was like, well, we could do these gelato 41.
So let's do these gelato 41 crosses.
I work with this a lot and I think we're going to have some really good seeds.
And so that's that's when the whole process started.
And so the only one that you might find some longer phenotypes would be the
golden lemon times gelato 41 and then I'll jaw fada that definitely you're
going to have I would say 10 10 week phenos, maybe maybe 11 at the most, but
you're looking at like that that 910 week with everything else.
Oh, yeah, and then auto 70 70 days or less from germination.
That's where it should hit.
Can you describe the Terps on the auto?
I would say you get gas you get what the whole you know, it's just it's you
were looking for OG trips.
I was the whole point of breathing it that way was to find something that
leaned more to the OG but I you know, each generation is going to get a little
bit better even still I would say that 60 to 70% comes out really gassy.
You will still find some interesting Terps because the auto flower that it
was originally bred with so each generation is going to get a little bit
better.
You'll find some you know, I would say there's limonene in some of the Terps
that are not the not the most out of the keepers.
You got the keepers that are all the OG and then you're going to have some of
the other ones you'll get limonene.
You'll get some some of the other interesting Terps.
Sorry, we have a beta carpofoline.
There we go.
So here is just perpetuals.
Situation.
Short flowering outdoor season clear head after waking up.
I would say go with that TKO.
I must be killed for sure.
Yeah, but but Rick agrees that we should get Josh D on here.
100% so you have some AJ fans who are heckling you a little or one AJ fan.
Oh, yeah, and we had a whole sour diesel origins episode.
So let me post the link to that.
Yeah, we had the guy who originally created the sour diesel when I make you
found the bag seed and he talked about that on the show.
Sour diesel origins with Mojave Richard.
That was a good one.
And AJ didn't create the sour diesel AJ sour diesel is East Coast sour diesel.
You know, there you know, I thought that AJ's was a more lemony version of the
sour diesel, but that's not the case.
We heard it right from the mouth of the people.
I've heard it from directly from both people.
But uh, good times.
These debates will go on forever to you know, it's like
no more man loves his sour D.
Someone asked about the genetics on the
the golden lemons.
I had mentioned it sour diesel times lemon skunk from DNA.
I believe I didn't research it real quick, but if memory serves me correct,
that's what the lineage is.
A reality be.
Yeah, so Jack what I liked.
I mean Josh readily acknowledges.
He's not like saying he's the creator of anything.
No, he never he never wants to said he created OG.
He just said he spread it out and shared it with people.
And he's always said that, you know, and
he's a very blunt person when it comes to talking about stuff like that.
And then he tells people what he thinks and
you know, he's a no bullshit sort of guy.
I like that about Josh D.
So he knows he knows good weed man.
That guy grows killer weed.
He goes absolutely the best OG out of anybody.
He grows more of it than anybody else that I've ever met.
And he has a whole, you know, Josh D his brand that they grow OG's and that's all they grow.
It's it's pretty pretty epic down in Santa Barbara.
So James, I think you're qualified to answer the next question, which is
if you're in the Bay Area,
you want to come in my backyard and check out my autos?
And so here's the thing.
I don't think autos are all year round type thing.
I do have some autos that I grow and stuff like that.
But the problem with growing it anywhere is your nighttime temps.
And if it's cold and you have nighttime temps that are low and you're not getting a lot of sun during the day,
your autos are not going to finish in 70 days.
They might not finish in 120 days and you're not going to get vigorous growth because the second it gets really cold.
They just kind of stunt out.
That's the biggest problem with autos.
So if you're trying to grow them in the sun,
just because they auto flower, I mean,
you could put regular photo flowers in there.
You could put regular photo period stuff out right now and it's going to flower anyway.
So especially seed, if you grow seed outdoors.
You know, I think there's a bunch of good, like Bubba is another good one.
If you have Bubba clones and you put those outdoors right now, you'll get little bubble plants about that big.
But I'm kind of working on some stuff that I think will do well,
but it's probably going to take another year before we have anything that'll go outdoors for the winter.
And the stuff that I'm working on that I think will go really well for the winter,
is not auto flower because it automatically flowers anyway with the sun being less than 12 hours a day.
So that being said, you're trying to grow in the winter.
Less day time.
Less day time.
Yeah.
Less day time.
You're trying to get, I mean, if you bring your plants in at night and give them additional light, you can crush anything auto.
Yeah.
So this is what seems like the first thing that you're going to do.
This is what seems like the first half of a question.
So, Tig, whatever your YouTube name is, can you, hopefully the part two is a little further down in the chat.
I have a male purple cush that I sex and put in my garage in 24 hours light, colder temp.
The opening pollen sacs now have female pistils on them.
Okay, hold on.
Unless that...
That sounds like a hermaphrodite.
Yeah.
If it has, I mean, it is a hermaphrodite.
If it has actual pistils, you know, you send us a picture.
I'd love to see it.
I'm always interested in checking that stuff out.
You can send it to JamesLoudGenetics at gmail.com.
You got questions, send away.
You know, I've had some interesting stuff.
You know, I was contacted by a guy who watches the show that has ulcerative colitis and him and I have been talking about different varieties.
I'm sending him some stuff to test out to see if it helps him as far as with ulcerative colitis.
So, if you have questions about genetics or stuff like that.
Yeah, and Marlon, a couple people asked about connecting with you.
Where's the best place to reach you?
You could reach me at MrMarlonAsher on Instagram.
You could reach me on Facebook, Marlon Sobers.
You could reach me, you know, any just any social media.
I'm there, you know, just link me and we can talk or, you know, I mean, transfer contact or anything like that.
MrMarlonAsher, Instagram, anywhere.
Okay, let's see.
Oh, wait, here we go.
Tight.
Okay, there were old seeds.
All right, we're getting more information on that question.
I'm glad they germinated.
You did something right there.
Yeah, all the seeds stored them correctly.
Well, maybe didn't and got lucky.
Purple Kush, it's so funny because talking about Purple Kush, now Trichome Technologies,
Kay from Trichome Technologies, who's one of my friends, he created, you know, the Purple Kush that I know.
There may have been others, but he created the one.
I believe it's a high times cannabis cup winner as well.
But, you know, it's interesting what Purple Kush was it, where did it come from?
If it came from him, I don't think he released seeds.
I think that he's locked down that.
But there was definitely one for, there was a Purple Kush.
I remember coming from Mendocino.
That was interesting, but I haven't seen Purple Kush seeds.
So yeah, if you have any more info on the lineage or where you got them, is it you get them from Garberville,
you get them from someplace in California, be real interesting to find out.
So Peter, how was your Thanksgiving?
My Thanksgiving was satisfying and tonight I have round two.
So.
Always nice to have round two.
Yeah, no, it's I made, last year I cooked everything for like my in-laws and all their cousins and stuff.
And that was slightly on the stressful side.
So for lockdown this year, I just made a sweet potato au gratin and a salad.
And then we actually ordered the turkey.
Oh, terrible.
I know, but.
So LA of you.
It worked for me this year.
Nice.
Two years ago, my parents flew out for Thanksgiving and my mom was supposed to help me and she got sick on the plane,
like the flu or something.
And so again, like two straight years of cooking for 15 to 20 people by myself was.
So anyway, that was.
And then my daughters are at their grandparents house right now.
You guys heard them bouncing around right before we went on.
And I was like, I'm so sad to see you guys go for the next two hours.
So but we had.
Yeah, Marlon, there was a guy who way back in the chat said you guys did a rhythm together way back in the day.
Oh, yeah, but I can't find his thing.
But anyway, that guy is still listening.
Yeah.
And, you know, well, if I if I had known it's a blessing always to make, you know, some vibes with other artists and see it come to light, you know, it's a blessing.
I always up for that.
James, you know, I like to make music with other artists, especially if they just up and coming, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The Gonzo former song is, you know, I think Jay Boog, you know, he he he he actually read did your song and.
Your songs travel like the Gonzo farmers traveled so far, but you're a collaboration, guys.
I think that's one of the reasons you and I hit it off so well is we love working with other people.
It's not just about us.
It's about the magic that we can make with other people.
Exactly.
It's about sharing the blessing, not about grabbing.
Riley, when are we going to get that?
Good news.
That's a while in Australia.
I.
Well, we love hearing people from Australia.
That's great.
I bless it because you know what we have to reach out to every corner of the earth and I mean, and there is a blessing to know Australia, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah.
From Australia.
Hopefully we can go there someday and enjoy the herb.
Oh, yeah.
It looks like it looks like a couple hundred packs have been picked up so far.
Oh, that's it.
Just kidding.
That's great.
Fantastic.
If thanks.
And are you going to come back and sing a song on one of the next Sunday morning episodes?
One of the Sunday morning episodes.
I must set up my music right here and just excellent.
Oh, yeah.
Pete.
Someone asked where you are right now.
You're you're also in California right now.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I'm in California.
Nevada County, Abigrass Valley.
Looks like it's warming up there.
Actually, Mike wants to know there's a Josh Heinrichs collaboration coming up.
My spot is warm because I choose to sit in the wed exactly where the sun is shining.
It's actually the breeze is actually cold.
Like freezing cold, but the sunlight is keeping me, you know, warm and it's
Yeah, Josh Hendrick, you guys have a video that I've seen of you guys jamming together.
Just Hendricks.
Oh, yeah, that's my good buddy.
That's killing.
Yeah.
Yeah, they do good music.
Yes.
It's so funny that the song ganja.
It's like I'd heard that for years and then I realized that he sang it and I was like, whoa, that's amazing.
I mean, he has an amazing voice.
He has a very authentic voice.
Yeah.
He was on the other night.
Yeah.
Oh, he's the real deal, man.
He's a real smoker, man.
You know, he's a real good person, man.
Josh.
As a we had a it's like you think of when a musician goes on a stage and then you have like all the instruments, you know, going into the mixing board and you know, speak sound systems and we had everything was being
picked up by his, you know, his cheap little iPhone headset.
So but everybody loved it.
They all appreciated it.
Yeah, man.
It was nice.
Yeah, anytime we can amuse people with and we have some music coming up.
I have a couple bands that I'm trying to schedule stuff with.
So obviously I usually announce that stuff last minute, but just for all the
listeners out there, everyone who's tuning in Marlon and I are talking about doing a weekly show.
Yeah, we've been shooting around the idea.
So musician talk about food, you know, Marlon and I both love good food, love travel.
So I think we're looking at doing a weekly show, you know, sometime in the near future.
Yeah, definitely.
It's going to be, you know, something for everyone.
It's going to be so blessed.
Can we do it on the SCP?
I'm going to be talking about maybe.
Something that I, you know, James, you're a chef.
I like to cook a little bit.
So I think everyone likes food.
So it's going to be good.
I agree.
I definitely agree.
I just and you know, it's like most of our friends that are either musicians or talented in whatever they do that we would have on the show.
Most of them like good food to like food is something that we kind of bring each other together with and it's just like how music and herb kind of go together.
It's like herb will bring two people that would never normally hang out together and they'll smoke and be happy and have stuff to talk about.
You know, people that are passionate about cannabis and music's another one.
Music brings together people in a very unique way and food is the same thing.
Food is definitely like it doesn't matter what kind of music you like or what you smoke or even if you smoke at all, but food can really bring people together.
Once you got food there is going to be conversation is going to be good times ever since Adam ate the apple, man.
Yeah.
All right.
Well, you guys want to wrap it up?
Sounds great.
Yeah.
Well, thank you.
So we're today's we're not doing something Sunday or are we this Sunday?
I think well, we'll talk to Danny.
We're going to have Danny Danko on it's either going to be this Sunday or next Sunday.
Okay.
So I got it.
Which whatever works best for you and you know, I might have a special guest coming on for that show as well.
But yeah, getting Danny on here would be fun.
Yeah, he's the one who awarded us.
The he's the one who nominated us and we got awarded the high Times Hall of Fame in 2014.
For loud seeds.
So he loves cannabis.
He loves smoking.
I've smoked with him a bunch.
So it'll be great to have him.
But yeah, I appreciate it.
Thanks for tuning in everybody.
Marlon.
Thank you so much for coming on the show.
It's great to always talk to you and Peter.
Thanks for having us on the show.
Thank you guys.
Just just quickly Tuesday night.
The the fire fundraisers are back.
Oh, yeah.
So Pacific time good.
We will have some of our seeds on there for the for the fire relief.
We're going to have stuff that's not released yet.
We might even have a pack of that GMO something special.
But I think the other thing is is Duke Diamond.
There's going to be a fundraiser for Duke Diamond coming up Dominion seeds.
Duke Diamond's been in prison for a little bit and or jail and he'll be out in the next couple months.
But you know, we're trying to trying to do a fundraiser for him.
And you know, if I can contribute I will definitely be contributing seed packs so we can raise some money for him.
He's a great guy.
Great breeder.
I can't speak highly enough about his passion for the sacred plant.
He he's what it's all about man and his genetics have always been top-notch.
I feel like he he's he's all about finding those old-school varieties and breeding them in and he has a very specific style and and yeah,
I appreciate the work that he's done and hopefully we can raise some money for him and help him out.
So and can you remind everyone?
They want email for James is James loud genetics at gmail.com.
We got a yeah, so we may have some what's tomorrow Saturday.
So possibly tomorrow at 2 p.m.
Which is conveniently 30 minutes after my two-year-old goes down for her nap.
We may have Brandon rust and Scott scams talking soil and plants and all scientific research.
Sunday we may do Danny Danko or we may not James will let us all know.
So actually follow him on that.
That there's the that's where it will first be announced.
It will be breaking on James Louds Instagram and yeah, and then Tuesday night the fire relief stuff.
So definitely with that everybody have a good round two of Thanksgiving.
Dinner for those of you in the US and for those of you outside the US just appreciate the fact that you're not eating turkey two days in a row.
Yeah.
Excellent.
Well, thanks again guys, and I'll talk to you very soon.
Have a good one.
And my best.
Thanks everyone.
