I don't know if you want to do that.
You can't, but this is 9%.
You can probably.
I'm sorry, Nana.
I don't even know.
Seven point four percent.
All right.
Then I guess we're right in the ballpark.
And I have a I my wife got me a German
like an advent thing of beer.
So they're all like the, you know, leader or whatever.
One for each day leading up to Christmas.
OK, we're going to drink all this tonight.
Just do you see that?
If Black Lime Reserve PAC pops up, yeah,
not even my mortgage payment could cover the bid.
It's four a.m. in Scotland.
Or you're in Scotland, right?
Top floor.
Anyway, let's see where is everybody
tuning in from and look at that, we got my God, we're
we're almost at Brady Bunch.
A lot of darkness.
The two darker what dance in the dark.
Yeah, Darkman Dan.
So, Rob, can you hear us?
Hold up. All right.
All right. So let me that blue.
But all right. So in the house tonight we have a wait.
Sorry, even for Jesus.
Having some Internet issues.
Hold on, everybody.
OK.
Scotland, Detroit's in the house.
What's PDX?
Denver, Louisiana.
San Jose, Colorado.
Well, we just lost.
We just lost Rob.
Chicago, Baltimore.
I am also in SoCal.
And then, Dan, you're you're up in Vermont, right?
I'm in the Northeast Kingdom of Vermont.
Excellent.
Not far from how is how is lockdown in Vermont
treating you with lots of open space?
I love it.
You know, I like being in the woods.
So, yeah, I miss I miss Humboldt.
But I'm I'm good. Enjoying myself.
And Kevin Wood is also in Vermont with you.
Oh, no way.
This is.
All sorts of places.
So why don't we wait a couple of minutes?
And then we can start with Dan and Chadwick.
Why don't you guys is there anything specifically
each of you wants to start with so I can start prepping it?
Well, I was thinking you said that we could do two tonight and
that Panama Red by Coastal
and the Low Lab Valley Breeders Pack.
That'd probably be good for for tonight.
And I think I sent you the information for both of those
to your email.
OK, so let me.
Everybody can bear with us.
And then, Dan, what are you thinking?
You know, I'm down for whatever you guys do.
Jack, you go first.
If you want, let me know what you guys talk of my stuff
and I'll be happy to kind of detail
what it is and and anything people want to know about it.
All right. So let me find the good Lord.
We got we got a lot of stuff to choose from.
It's good news.
So it's 10. It's a 10 pack, right?
Yes.
Yeah, there's gonna be 12 seeds in there, I'm sure.
I always put, you know, between 12 and 13, 14, maybe.
But I advertised 10.
All right. And Seattle Chronic Rob has the has the Wi-Fi.
I think so. I think it's working now.
I can hear everybody. It's not like crazy.
So excellent.
As long as my camera is all
our MC for the night.
Thank God I don't have to hopefully do much talking.
Depends on my Internet connection.
Really, it's cutting out. You might have to.
So why don't I?
All right. We have almost 200 people.
So why don't we we get started?
So Chadwick, do you want to?
That is you.
I'm going to go ahead and get started.
Do you want to? That is you.
And do you want to talk about the Panama Red?
Yeah, sure. So I have a.
I have quite a few people that I collaborate with
in the New England area up here.
And one of the guys that
that was helping me back several years ago
collect a lot of different land race type material
and got me these coastal
coastal seed, these Panama Reds.
There's the pack that they came in originally.
And I don't know in this container, there must have been.
There must have been maybe 40 or so.
I went through about half of those.
And I did find a couple of plants
that we worked with for a couple of years.
I bred them into some stuff.
They were pretty long flowering, but, you know, nice structure.
The it was, you know, everything I expected that the Panama Red would be.
The only thing that for myself personally, I just didn't work out
to breed with that up here in Maine.
You know, I'm pretty far north
in the state, about halfway up.
And, you know, it's this is a 15 week flowering.
14 to 15 week flowering plan.
Most of the seedlings.
I had a couple of people tell me that that they found some stuff
go shorter, you know, to maybe 13 weeks.
But out of the ones that we popped,
you know, they were a lot longer.
Flavor was great.
The flowers were big.
We ran an indoor and outdoor.
I didn't find any herms.
We did stress tested.
We did do a back cross.
I'm not sure where that that ended up.
I kind of left that in the hands of some indoor guys.
So that's why I was I thought it'd be a good idea to
to put them out there to somebody that.
You know, that might have a better use for them than I do at this point.
Got it.
So, Mr.
Seattle Chronic, what do you want to start the bidding at to to kick off the night?
And for the pack of Panama, I would say at least we should start those off at
150. That's a good bid.
And this was in your indoor.
So you did it indoor and outdoor, you said.
Actually, it's a guy down in Portland
did the indoor stuff you're seeing right there with the flowers.
He said we selected two females and two males.
What we thought we saw four different phenotypes.
And this was the nicest looking female that we found.
He ran it indoor.
I think he's under HPS.
They're. No, no, no.
I think that is actually. I'm sorry.
But yeah, he ran it indoor.
I tried to run it outdoor here.
It's just a joke to try to do that in Maine.
If you don't finish your stuff by, you know, October,
you know, 10, 15, you know, you get you get trouble here
by about October 15th.
We've had about four frost and maybe a freeze.
So if you're not running some big fat, cushy flowers
that are making heat or covering your stuff, you're in trouble.
Any commentary from the peanut gallery on Panama Red?
I heard there was in those ones there was I think it was in those lines
that there was some trippy like some trippy CBD ratios on some of them.
And it's supposed to be pretty cool.
You can when you look at it, it looks like a neat plant.
It's got those real extreme, sharp, narrow leaves like that.
I don't know. It seems cool.
I have some of them somewhere. I've never popped them up.
Yeah, that that's what someone was saying in the chat earlier.
Yeah, I did talk to Bam about him as well, and.
He kind of quizzed me on, you know, well, when did you get him exactly?
There was kind of two different Panama Red releases that
the coastal might have done and.
Based on the pack that I showed him in the container, he was like,
he was like, oh, yeah, I think those are the ones I worked on and.
And I kind of corresponded with him
with with the flowers as those guys were rifling pictures to me,
I was sending him on IG, and he's like, oh, yeah, that's definitely the same.
You know, the same batch of stuff that
that he thought that he worked through. So.
Yeah, it's a great plan.
I did get to smoke some of the flower that was finished indoor,
and it was real cerebral type high.
Real clean tasting.
I wouldn't put put it in a fruity category,
but I think it was definitely a little bit gassy and.
You know, it definitely made you want to smoke it.
You want to get up and do something, be creative, perhaps.
Got it. OK, we're at a one ninety right now.
For. Exactly.
Songs are written. It's something of lore.
We're sitting at one ninety for it.
So it's funny is that that's been stuck in my head since he posted it.
And I'm all read.
OK, and I'm all read.
I did. You know, I did notice outdoor.
It had no problems with powdery mildew.
But try this really didn't get a chance here to grow flowers big enough to really.
Look at Budrod or anything like that, but I was I was quite impressed.
It was the fastest cloning thing in my corner by far.
Usually in the in the hydro and strike groups
like right around six, seven days, it was thrown callous.
I was pretty impressed with that.
So it's a pretty vigorous cross.
Someone asked, do you see that question?
I yeah, that's a good question and probably a better question for BAM on on IG.
I'm not real sure.
You know, this was these seeds were procured through a friend
that actually got a hold of one of the four guys that was a part of coastal
in the beginning.
So I'm not I'm not super familiar with
the date, but it could be back as far as six years.
It could be five 2015.
So Emerald, I'm not sure.
I just be throwing a guess out.
I know it's been several years and I hate to really, you know,
just throw a guess out and be wrong.
But I can tell you the BAM is God.
He'd have a better idea.
I think BAM's at work right now, Adam, right?
Or is Adam?
Or that's what he said, he said, yeah, BAM's on the long shift.
Adam says they are 17.
All right.
OK, well, anyway.
We're at we're still at one 90.
And that do we remember who that was?
I have to scroll way up.
Boomer's bud
walk away with a steal at one 90.
Oh, right.
There's more people aren't bidding on these.
These are very legendary.
We brought our hype man and Josh hype these up.
He's like, what are we talking about?
Buy that shit.
Panama Reds.
OK, right.
I got it. 200.
There we go.
Where are these are these from
from BAM or are they from coastal?
Yeah. Yeah.
Nice. I've run those.
I ran those last summer.
There's a they're actually really strong, really,
really cold.
All right.
Bam did a run with him last winter, and we talked a lot about it
when he was right.
He was he started him like in November, November, December,
like really crazy late.
And you did you guys talk about this at all?
No. Yeah.
And it was really impressive.
He sent me photos kind of all the way through.
We were kind of communicating through it.
And I was just impressed with the tolerance.
You know, he is he is in Santa Cruz, but it still gets cold there.
You know, it's not like.
It's totally warm there, and they're really strong, strong plants.
So actually, hold on, we have
so Trevor just sent me.
So there's that one. Yeah.
Yeah, they've got a great candelabra look to them,
kind of like a little mini Afghan.
Super vigorous.
Mr. Bob Hemphill is growing them.
Easy trim.
Long hairs.
For people who, too, are up north, like if you're dead,
if you are like south of Santa Cruz, those kind of things that
that are really late for people up north, they're not late for people down south.
Like if you're down by L.A.
or anywhere down there, this kind of stuff that doesn't finish
till like mid-November or wants to push into December, it'll it'll finish,
you know, in early October or something if you're down south.
So they're better for stuff like that.
Someone just said good for Aussie growers.
And that's true.
Or Hawaii or something like that.
And good to breed, too, if you take something like that
and breed it with something else, you can make it be tolerant to like,
you know, Hawaiian conditions or more wet southern United States conditions.
OK, so we're at.
Boomers Budwood 210.
Still at two. We got the crew on tonight.
Boomers up, Dan.
What's up, Josh?
The Jackson Chadwick has a gun.
Rob, how are you doing?
Good, brother, how you?
She's somebody from Florida.
We'd have the four corners.
I'm good. I had actually had a little fucking finger.
I had a little finger surgery yesterday.
And this morning I woke up
kind of just feeling surly and I rented a tractor and ordered like 20 yards
of gravel and made a little road so I can get to my green house.
And I'm just feeling like really fucking tough and.
You know, like I just took and did some bullshit today.
All right. Well, Cascadian runs a tight ship on the timer.
So you want to call it?
I think it's good. Yeah.
All right. Boomers Bud.
Trevor is going to post the email address where you
can connect with us and then the
the GoFundMe link.
Wait for Trevor.
All right. I'll post it. Hold on.
All right. So.
Who was it? Boomers Bud?
Boomers Bud at 210.
OK, so send an email there.
So we have your contact info and then go here.
To make your donation and Dan, you want to.
Should we just round Robin between the East Coast?
Basically, we're trying to get the East Coasters to bed.
So also Yellowhammer, check your Instagram
because I didn't realize that you're in Massachusetts.
So that's where you go to make the donation.
But Dan, from you.
Uh. We can go in many directions.
And they scroll up where I see rebel ground.
OK, so we have actually you want to start with the Stardust?
Yeah, we can if you want to.
All right. So let me.
So this is from. OK.
Is that accurate?
Yeah. Yep, that's accurate.
All right.
Thank God I didn't have to type that out on the fly.
What's I X two?
Yeah, you guys want me to to elaborate on those.
Break that down, dude.
Always love it.
OK, cool. Yeah. So, um.
Yeah, so the Stardust is something that we've been doing
testing on the last three years going through,
you know, the F1s and making an F2
that we broke down into five individuals that I really like.
And it kind of spectrums and out of one of those directions.
I'm continuing to work on the F1s.
Those directions, I'm continuing to work them.
But basically what you get out of the overall open pollination
F2, what you really nice,
really vigorous plants that have a range of like like great
or like great, really nice, beautiful,
you know, with like a nice lime green, pretty good cannabinoid
and really high terpene profile.
And then you get some stuff that has a little bit more influence
from like the cookies aspect in there with like a little bit denser nugs.
And so those seeds were from an open pollination
where there's probably about 25 different females from the F1
that were all pollinated by three different males.
And then from there, what I did is I took each of the little seed plants.
They were kind of small testers and like two and three gallon pots.
And so I just kind of break them down into category.
You know, if it's if it's something that I think is really nice herb
that I'd like to smoke and I think growers would be impressed
with the plants that they get, it goes into the keep it pile.
I think that it's not something stand out or not as unique
or if it showed that it, you know, maybe molded easier,
didn't show some type of resistance or, you know, had powder milk
goes in the in the bad seeds pile.
Doesn't make you got a photo.
Yeah. OK, so that is
that is a pheno that we found in the F2s
that I really, really like that we're putting in production.
I'm trying to think of what else I can say about these.
So anyway, when we first grew out the F1s, I kind of broke it down
into this one smell that I prefer, which kind of has what I consider
like cinnamon, raisin, metallic, putrid, rotten fruit smell
with a little bit of gassiness all kind of mixed in.
That's the one that I really like.
I like the color of the flower.
There's kind of like a magenta, like light
bluish tinge to the edge of the leaves in the flower.
And I really think that's the one that
checks just a lot of boxes in terms of being really unique
in terpenes, the way that the plant grows.
And then there's another one that you'll find in there
that's kind of really like a big bud that does pretty well with mold resistance.
That's just super vigorous and gets massive.
And that one kind of had
we're calling that the number four.
I'm trying to describe the smell profile, but it's more like sweet and floral,
but not like boring, sweet and floral.
And I was a little made some cross with radiation exposure right on.
Yeah. But anyway, so what I did was from the F1,
I broke it down into an A, a B, a C, a D and a E.
And then basically I've been checking in and testing
through all those different variations of it.
But yeah, it's nicer right now on the farm.
We've got four different cuts from that F2 that we just put into
like small batch production for the first time, like rather than one seed plant.
We've got anywhere from like four to like 15 or 20 hundred gallon pots
or something that we just harvested.
And then we're actually going to send out a first batch of R&D stuff to SC Labs
just to see the terpene and cannabinoid profiles of it
actually being grown for production properly.
I've got some lab tests from different seed phenos going back to probably 2016, 2017.
And then, like I said, that one that kind of has that smell, that's kind of like
like a metallic cinnamon raisin kind of funkiness mix.
That's the line that I'm now working.
So we just harvested the F3s going in that direction.
And again, I did like an open pollination just growing from that, you know, the D and the E,
which were my two favorites.
And from that open pollination, I went through and selected out all the standout ones that,
you know, were leaning towards that kind of dominant trait that I was looking for,
which was was probably in about two thirds of that stuff.
And then I threw a few keepers from like nice sweet ones that didn't quite meet that same
profile, but to keep diversity of some nice stuff.
So, yeah, these and, you know, I think I started offering these seeds after we tested out
the F1 probably over two years ago, but just in small batches.
So probably not a lot of people have grown this stuff.
And then if you want me to dive back into it just for the sake of conversation, so I have a
couple of different Girl Scout lines.
And so I got a forum cut of Girl Scout cookies back in 2011.
And, you know, before like a ton of people, everybody was growing Girl Scout.
And so I think I was probably one of the earlier people to test it out in large scale
production in Humboldt or the Emerald Triangle just to kind of see how it did outdoors.
And so that first year of 2011, I crossed a bunch of different males into it.
And then over the next several years, I started testing out all those different kind of
hybrids made from it to see what different things bred into it.
And that line of this like, you know, older reservoir seeds, sour stock, like I kind of
lost faith in that line, you know, having grown out some of the 2010 releases and found
more like sweet, blander plants that were kind of disappointing.
But that one male was was definitely super beefy.
When I first made that F1 hybrid of the Girl Scout into the sour, I gave it to a really
good indoor grower that I knew.
He's actually a guy that I met through a buddy, like a really good friend of mine, I
guess, had known him for like 20 years or something.
And I remember way back in the day, like the best indoor that I would ever get my hands
on, like the old four way and like Sensi Star and all this crazy shit.
And this was the dude who's grown it.
So certified OG grower, really, really amazing with the plant.
And he had tested like a whole bunch of stuff.
He's like, I collected every OG cut I could get and did a huge pheno hunt.
And the keeper that I found in that Girl Scout sour out of 34 things, he's like, that was
the illest shit that I found.
And he was depping it and then tragically had a house fire and his dog passed away.
He lost all his genetics.
But anyway, so that that basically is a representation of the Girl Scout sour that that
goes into it. And then the rest of the line is basically my five G's, which is like a
long story that I tell differently every time, which is just, you know, essentially
it's a five way polyhybrid of a bunch of stuff.
And at the time when I tested out, I was so pleased with the quality of the stuff that
was in there. I was like, you know what, I'm going to call this the five G's, five way
polyhybrid, five gangster strains.
So good that it should be worth five G's a pound.
And I was like, you know, people be sleeping on it and then one day they'll be smoking
it and being like five G's.
That's what I'm smoking right now.
Actually, this is the five G F purple, the five G's purple F3, which I just went through
and made F4s out of.
And one of my favorite, it's got a lot of F13 traits in it and it's really like a sweet
floral purple with like a vanilla twist to it and like a cush background.
And the five G's purple is good resistance to powder mildew and mold, too.
It can take some pretty, pretty harsh weather in the fall and do OK.
And then it's a medium to earlier, you know, finisher depending on, you know, what your
soil space is and root mass.
Got it. All right.
Should we go back to throw it back to Chadwick?
I think. Did anybody, did anybody try to bid on the startup?
We got I think the winning bid was 100 bucks.
Anyway, I'll say about Stardust is that.
The four cuts that were running in production, I put them up against any like exotic type
weed that people call exotic in terms of being unique, potent terpene profile, overall
impressive and visually appealing, easy to grow, vigorous, big, all that.
And.
Sounds amazing.
Wait, Cascadian, did we call it or are people still bidding?
What's it that?
Well, the timer ran out, but they're they're bidding.
And I want to be right now.
All right. Scallywag, but, you know, 100.
But.
For it back to people who lost their homes and fires, then, you know, it's cool to be
more generous if people are down, but solid genetics.
Solid.
There are 12 seeds in the pack, I think, right?
Yeah, sometimes one or two extras end up in there, but should be 12.
Got it.
And these would have been made in the fall of two thousand.
Eighteen.
Eighteen or nineteen.
Someone said he said exotic and the price went up.
Scallywag.
Well, I hate to use that term.
You know, this is straight from like my partner, my farm manager.
He's like, look, you know, R.O.G. is great and everything.
But in terms of exotic, he he he thinks that the Stardust is probably the thing
that's most in that alley of like it's just unique and different and it'll it'll
stand its own against, you know, all the designer strains.
All right, so we're at one fifty.
The Jolly Green Giant.
Who likes his peas?
And the seeds.
And.
How long and flower, someone asked.
Oh, I think that some of them in California, you know, go until maybe October
21st, I think the bulk of them, I mean, we've we've grown from the different
generations, probably like at least 70, 80 large seed plants out of it.
And a lot of other people have tested it.
Um.
I think that the earlier stuff you'll start to pull down maybe October 7th to
the 10th, the majority of it's going to be right in the middle of the month, and
I don't think you'll see anything go past the 21st.
That's like nine to 11 weeks, kind of.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like, have we debt any of?
You have a question about the breeding, like you said, you had 25 females and
you three males.
I'm assuming you were breeding outdoors and out of curiosity, were the three males
in pots stationary or were you in small pots moving males around?
Or I'm just curious about that part of the breeding.
Yeah, so the way that that I did this is I'll generally make like a little really
basic hoop for males, each for their own variety.
And so depending on when I have the space and and the way that it's going, so I'll
make one little hoop to eat.
Maybe it's only like an eight by eight and that'll be for the stardust.
So I'll grow everything out.
And over the course of the season, we'll whittle down the males until we get to
the three or four most impressive ones.
Maybe I know some of the specific traits or the shape of the leaf or the stem rub or
the color that I'm looking for that I'm trying to breed towards in that line.
And then basically, once those males are getting ready to pop, they'll go inside the
hoop. The hoop's covered with plastic.
It's pretty kind of, you know, it's basic.
It's nothing fancy.
And so I know that if they're covered in plastic and they're not breathing well, you
know, you got to time that right to get the right size.
And then basically the females were also in small pots, I think like twos and threes
and maybe fives in that case, maybe probably three gallon pots.
And so the females are grown and hand watered in kind of like an R&D space.
And then when they are ready to go in there, you know, time it right.
They go in, they get pollinated, maybe take a leaf blower, set up a fan in there or
something, leave them in there for two days, then take the next day and put them in
the water. They're pollinated, they get tagged, dated, labeled.
They go back in the garden to finish.
And then usually with those, it's like sometimes they get fed, but they don't get the
same treatment or, you know, pest preventatives as everything else.
So they go through the wringer in terms of trying out every once in a while and, you
know, having to test the elements of whether they're going to get any pests and things
like that. So that's kind of the process.
So then when everything's harvested, we end up with baller plants, you know, ounce and
a half, two ounces.
And that's what I make the judgment for in terms of the individuals that get passed on,
you know, to the next generation.
All right. So we have a winner.
Shonald, I probably just butchered your first name.
But Shonald came in on the first name, which is a little bit of a weird name.
But Shonald came in at 190.
And we'll be very happy.
So Shonald.
How do you mess that up? It's Shonald Trump.
All right, so Shonald, send an email.
There.
Whoa, that's weird.
I sent an email there and then make your donation at that link and then Chadwick, do you
want to. And by the way, Yellowhammer Genetics, if you're listening, jump on because I
know you're in mass. I say.
I DM you the link to join us.
So check your I.G.
Is our MC still here?
I am. All right.
Keep it moving on.
We're moving on to the next one.
I was actually looking at some stuff from Chadwick.
Man, the Chemdog Special Reserve and the Chemdog 4 caught my eye.
Particularly.
So let's go. All right.
Let's.
Yeah, we could do those.
Give me a second to queue that up as I scroll through a very long list of.
All right. So do you want to do the GG 4 cross or the Chemdog 4 cross to start?
I think the Chem.
I think the Chem.
Super Chem.
Yeah, right.
It's the more valuable.
Sorry, I'm Trevor.
I apologize for.
You have it. So is it a Chem 4 cross?
Yeah.
Yeah, I held Chem 4 from
the late 90s right up until about the 2008 crash.
I lost some genetics right around then.
What is GG 4?
It doesn't have Chem 4 in it.
Am I tripping?
Well, I'm not sure if maybe maybe Jackson can
collaborate, but the so the mail came from Chemdog Special Reserve.
Sour Dub.
What's Sour Dub?
Does Sour Dub have Chem 4 in it?
Yeah, this is a straight cry.
I held Chem 4 as a female, you know, and I got from Jodri some I got about 40 or 50
Chemdog Special Reserve seeds that aficionado did.
I went through those and found a really good one.
I think it was about $1,000.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I went through those and found a really, really nice chocolate Fino male.
I mean, it was chocolate on the stem.
It was a really nice male.
And I crossed that into the Chem 4 and crossed it into GG 4.
Both of those I did the same year.
And.
Out of that came, you know, just classic looking Chemdog 4 type material, but some
Fino's ranged from kind of a golden colored bud that was super gassy, fucking burn your
nose right after the hit type gas to a more earthy chocolate gas type Fino.
And I love every year I crack, you know, a half a dozen of them just to, you know, find
a new fresh one to mess with.
I don't have a ton of them left, but.
Every once in a while for something special, I'll pull them out.
Look who's lurking.
Yeah, the Chemdog.
Yeah.
Chemdog 4.
So I ran it here.
And, you know, four or five years ago, Powdery Mildew was ravaging Maine.
I mean, outdoor strains here.
I don't care.
You know, train wrecks, sour diesels were big.
People were trying to run the perps outdoors and they were all getting devastated by
Powdery Mildew.
Early, we did end up finding out that the Powdery Mildew we deal with on the East Coast
is a different species than the two that you guys deal with on the West Coast.
But anyway, long story short, the Chemdog 4 was completely resistant to that and
Botrytis.
I had plants with Powdery Mildew laying over on Chemdog 4 and it didn't take.
So I was really impressed with that plant.
Unfortunately, I lost it in 2008.
And this was, I mean, this was not the Black Rammer servers made with the Chemdog.
That's right.
Black Rammer servers made with the Chemdog.
That's right.
That's right.
Yeah.
It was the main Black Lime Reserve.
It was Lime 1 cross CVSR.
And those were pretty gnarly.
There was a, I mean, the lime is like one of those ones where everything that's in it,
I'm real familiar with.
So I could really see what the CVSR was too, because you could see what was like foreign
to the gene pool when I grew the Black Lime Reserves out a bunch.
And there was a time when I had some people were trimming some of it of the Black Lime
Reserve and they were, they like showed up and they had like this shit they wanted to
use to clean their scissors.
That was like that fucking Lemon Murphy's wood cleaner oil shit.
I was like, uh-uh, that can't go nowhere near the table, nowhere near the weed.
You got to get rid of that shit.
If you guys want to put a little bit of olive oil on your scissors and wipe it all the way
off or some shit, like cool, but there's nothing going on the weed.
And so I came back and I started smelling all the pounds and I was like, guys, this
isn't cool.
This is people's medicine.
You can't put shit on there.
And they were like, no.
And I was like, well, let me see your rags.
Let me see your scissors.
And I checked and it wasn't anywhere around.
And I realized that the coincidentally that that weed, like the lime smells citrusy and
lemony in a sense, but that CDSR brought this weird like lemon.
I don't know if anyone's ever smelled that shit, that that Murphy's wood oil, but the
lemon shit, it's this crazy chemical funky smell.
And that was close enough that I thought they were bullshitting me when they said they stopped
using it.
And I had to like go through all their shit and be like, no, you're not.
You can't use that.
And they were like, no, no, no.
You know, and I was like, oh, fuck.
OK, so that aspect right there, the lime is funky, but it's more like a it's more like
a urinal cake floor cleaner funk.
The CDSR has this more petroleum, nasty fucking funk.
So it was cool.
And some of those get really big and what it what it is, is it's it's Stardog, the old
original Stardog release.
I don't know if that was a Stardog nine or what, but it was the old release.
And it was given to Shiloh up here and Shiloh and Aficionado were working together a little
bit before Aficionado was Aficionado.
And they Shiloh had this nasty clone that came out of something.
And originally it was like, oh, it was the chem four across Stardog is what these seeds
are. But then Leo Stone was like, it's like it's chem four, but it's better.
It's a better chem for.
So like I joked, I was like, it's the not chem for, you know, and so it's not really
chem four, though.
It's like another Stardog cut or something.
And then it's crossed with the Stardog that JJ gave Shiloh and Kyle Cushman in like
2011 or 2010 or something.
And Shiloh ran out a whole bunch of them and selected some shit from it.
And him and Leo Stone were working together and then they they won the cup.
Elena grew that out.
And and like 28 percent, I think that clone, it was dank.
And yeah.
And so that was that that was what that was.
And then the CDSR is something from that same gene pool.
So it's like Stardog, Stardog, or they say it's chem four, chem four, Stardog.
But when someone tells you it's chem four, but it's better than chem four, you're
like, it's not chem four because it's a clone.
It's like, oh, it's it's sour, but it's better than sour.
It's like, no, it's not.
It's not it.
But that's not a bad thing in some cases, because it might actually be better than
fucking chem four.
But the chem four, the only thing about the black lime reserve and those, like you
said, there's those gold ones and people look at it and they're like, ah, the weeds
kind of like it's kind of it's not bright green like diesel or like some OGs.
But what you don't realize is that it's something about the potency of that resin.
If you look at it like under a loop, you realize it's the resin that's kind of
yellow. And those things, if you read like marijuana botany, Clark talks about how
there's like certain resins that turn color before they're even ever mature and
how those are oftentimes like some of the most potent shit.
And in this case, it seems like that's that's true.
And chem four has that kind of thing.
And then some of those in there, I would say, are definitely better than chem four
and some aren't as good as chem four.
But that's what that that's what that shit is.
All right, just quickly, Shonald, you are a direction follower and you already sent
an email. So we have your contact info.
Boomers, but leaky lizard, please send an email to donate at Dagger Love.
Should we go right back to Dan?
And then we have Yellow Hammers imminently joining us from my home state of
Massachusetts.
Very nice.
Coming to the party.
Is do we have is Newton Mass in the house tonight?
It happens to be where I'm originally from.
I'm Dover.
I escaped.
And then, yeah, we'll find out where Yellow Hammer is from.
But yeah, marijuana botany is a good.
Kevin, people want your clones again.
Mike Spangler's in Concord.
Mike Spangler's in Concord.
OK, so you guys want to we just to chat, Dan, you want to.
Let me see what we have again, our East Coast crew who.
It's late for you guys.
There's a radiation exposure or the five G's red cross of Girl Scout cross the
rebel cookies.
OK, hold on.
Either one, whichever one.
Here we go.
Radiation exposure, it seems the chems and OG's seem to be on point tonight.
OK, so so we got.
Yeah, boom.
Let me grab that.
Give me one second.
OK.
So we are doing.
Dan, take a look at that.
What am I looking at?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
I mean, I know the radiation exposure really well.
So, you know, first of all, since this is like an auction and and charity, I'll
add a pack of lemon sugar cush to the three.
So lemon sugar cush has probably been my my in my top three best selling seed
varieties for the last six years or so.
So I'll just throw in a pack of those with each one of these two.
But yeah, radiation exposure, because the name is hilarious and I usually, you
know, I put a lot of thought into names because I really just as as a grower, I
really just like to understand the lineage of what I'm growing and and tend to
like not really like when something has a name because I don't know what it is.
But at the same time, it can be fun.
And there's some really clever names.
And radiation exposure is a pretty awesome name, I think.
And so what that is.
So our double OG cam has been, you know, the variety that I have that's, you
know, been in the California market, just, you know, at dispensaries recently
and won some Emerald Cups with it.
Some of those clones are actually the only flower that's been in the top 20 of
the flower categories in the Emerald Cup for each of the last three years in a
row. There's been a 16th place, a 12th place.
A second place and then a fourth place last year grown by Sam with Earthen
Farms. So anyway, that's just a really kind of checks all boxes, gassy plant
between like an OG and a cam.
I just tend to grow a lot of those because that's what I sometimes like to
smoke, just really strong weed, but also trying to find ones that are really
resistant to powder mildew, early finishing, great structure.
This one really checks all the boxes.
And so it's kind of like our powerhouse.
Anything that it touches, it's just going to get more of a, you know, intense
cannabinoid profile, just a shitload of resin and in most cases, really nice
gassy backgrounds.
And so anyway, what this was, I was testing out some 5G's purple males and I
had a head stash garden and I decided I would just pollinate the whole thing.
And so I wanted to see what these males would do.
So this was in like a living soil raised bed, you know, that the previous owner
of my landlord's house had like dug down and, you know, used to make his own,
you know, worm castings, vermicompost there.
And so I let these three 5G's purple males just do their thing.
But I also tested kind of the boundaries of dry farming.
I was up in Humboldt a lot, so I wasn't always at this location to water.
And I had this guy that, you know, I asked to look after it, but he was drinking
too much and basically set the timer but didn't open the valves.
And so the plants basically weren't getting watered.
And when I noticed, I just decided to roll with it and see how they would handle
the drought.
And so, you know, these things were never really fed but planted into a pretty
nice soil.
And it was just a garden of double OG chem seed plants and 5G's purple F2 or F3 seed
plants.
And so what was cool is, you know, these are, you know, plants that would have
normally been, you know, four, five, six pounds, just no water, you know, other than
when they were planted in.
They were never watered.
And they managed to tap into something and kind of stay alive.
And so the radiation exposure, there were maybe like a handful of like bigger plants
and then there were some smaller ones.
And so the two that I chose those seeds from, one was by far the most impressive.
It had a really rock hard bud of a classic OG structure, good bud to leaf ratio.
And it was the only plant out of all the double OG chems that was just unfazed by
not being fed or watered, where they were actually like big yielding large nugs that
anybody would be impressed with.
And I'm like, wow, this is real drought resistance.
And I was really, really impressed with that plant.
You know, it had the gas, had the OG structure, vigorous, dense, heavy buds, and
really thrived in terrible, terrible conditions, you know, with really no assistance and
no supports or structure either.
So it's just on its own.
And then of the other ones, what I pretty much found was just these really leafy plants
with these tiny little like, you know, calluses that couldn't really develop into a flower.
They just didn't have enough water.
They didn't have enough food and they couldn't really do it.
Except for there was this one other one in the middle raised bed and it was actually
pretty large.
And yeah, it was really leafy.
The flowers were not able to properly develop, but it was like silver colored and like
silver when I think of like some old OG sour seed lines that I go back a while ago with
that have this like silver platinum, very thick, thick coat of resin.
And those are usually the ones that have the smell that I really, really, really like.
That's like my preference and a balance of like a soury OG chem.
And so anyway, when I dried them all out, I just kept my eye on that one and I rubbed
my fingers on the plant and I was like, you know, the buds didn't, they couldn't do a
whole lot, but man, this nose is crazy.
Like people will freak out, you know, with this nose.
And so what I did was I took those two, I just tossed the rest.
I probably still have like seven or eight pounds of legal head stash of all that seeded
weed from the ones that, you know, that didn't do their thing.
But these two I gave to a bunch of people to run out.
And what I saw was more of a 5G's purple dominance than I had hoped.
One of those 5G's purple males actually passed off a lot of sativa traits in that kind of
classic like, like, you know, backwards Christmas tree, you know, sativa structure.
And then the other two, one was more like stout purple and the other one was like the
mid range, which is like my 5G's.
So those are the three males that were unleashed, you know, what they were ending up like,
you know, seven, eight feet tall in the sky.
And so that's how I know that the sativa, you know, base one probably did the majority of the
pollinations. But so from testing them out, there's the A and the B, right?
And I kind of mix them both together.
So when you get the radiation exposure, you'll get seeds from those two female plants.
The one that was totally drought resistant and pretty impressive in all aspects.
And the one that had the like unbelievable gas, you know, silver, you know,
platinum resin gland, you know, real, real like awesome, awesome nose.
And yeah. So from growing those out, you find a really heavy, you know, cushy influence
and an OG chem influence and a lot of heavy resin production.
But most of the nose, I would say, is a stronger influence of the purple side of things.
But in a good way. And recently I was just looking through a whole bunch of it.
And so I got to see kind of a whole variation. And then, well, somebody I posted on
on the Rebel Grown Seeds Instagram page, someone posted up like a huge plant.
I want to say Mendo or the Sierra foothills.
And I reposted it because it was just a monster plant.
So you can definitely see the yield. And this year, a bunch of friends, you know,
grew out a bunch of them to head stash and weeds.
So, again, you know, pretty much our top selling and kind of most sought after double OG chem
to selected females. Boom. Open pollination. Five D's purple radiation exposure.
What was it? The picture of the girl in front of the plant at night?
Yeah. Yep. All right. Let me. Give me one second.
That one. But, yeah, so, you know, you get some great selections from those two varieties,
but really great resistance to mold and both powder mildew.
But especially the drought resistance, if you get from the A thing.
I mean, it was crazy. That thing literally never got watered after planting.
And it grew just like a normal plant.
OK, so just quickly, a team member was the winner, right?
At 375. I get that right.
I think so. Go back. Yeah. OK, so send an email to Trevor is standing by.
At this email address, eagerly awaiting your email and then make your donation here and then.
And I just got a text from Trevor. Trevor is standing by. Nice.
Sean, you are cool. People are making their donations.
Wait, what's ho ho? Is my audio cutting out for you guys or am I OK?
I go, man. OK, good. I'll do dang tree.
It's just you. So, Josh, just generously put up.
So obviously we understand that myself included don't have hundreds to thousands of dollars to spend on coveted seeds.
So we have the every man pack and all the proceeds from this will go to fire relief.
I'm just going to. What? Shit. I'm going to post.
I put up, Josh, about 100 packs to start that. So like 12, 12 seeds for is it 12 seeds per pack, 10 seeds per pack.
All right. So I would say 10 and 12.
There is the link to it. It's a long link, but it's basically a can you say what it is?
It's a the mail was a two KG 13 hash plant from bio 10.
I went through a pack of his stuff that he made and dumped it.
I was a pollen check into a room and I had the TKG or the.
Test to Rosa Black Lime Reserve at two that I selected female.
It was pretty fucking fire. And so this was from that.
And I just haven't gone through it. It should be really good.
I just haven't had the time to test it. So I just have a bunch of them.
And I just was kind of like thinking what I could offer up.
And this is something I think that's really cool that I that I'm going to probably work with that.
I have a lot of that, you know. So.
So where was it? Yeah.
Mike Spangler said all price points. So. All right.
We got a 50 dollar price point.
But at least we have something at the 50 dollar price point.
Mike's a G. Mike's a G. He sent me a care package.
Thank you so much, Mike. I haven't responded back to your email, but it really touched me.
And he sent me a CBG care package of CBG flowers and and and flowers.
And I was like, wow, that's a lot of money.
And I was like, I'm going to have to go to the store and get a bunch of flowers.
And he sent me a care package of CBG flowers and and a bunch of stuff.
And it was really, really special.
So I'll post that link every once in a while.
But I just, you know, it's just letting everyone know that you don't need to spend 200, 400 or when Jackson steps up thousands of dollars on a pack of seeds.
And so let's get back to Chadwick.
You want to do the other the Gigi four cross?
Yeah, that's fine with me.
Let me just see. Wait a second.
Look who just showed up. Or how long have you been waiting there?
I didn't even see you. Just a few minutes.
OK, sorry. So you're you're you're in what town?
I'm out close to Northampton, Western Mass.
OK, yeah. So cool.
Just a little bit north of Northampton, but another fellow mass hole in the house.
Well, yeah, I'm originally from Alabama, but so not quite a mass hole, but.
Are you are you Auburn or Alabama?
Auburn for sure. Excellent.
I like that. So. All right.
Well, why don't we go Chadwick and then Yellowhammer can jump in with our East Coast crew and then eventually they can fall off.
And. All right. So let me just cue it up.
But you want to start talking about the other one?
Yeah, you're doing the Gigi four or actually what you want to do that or do you want to do the.
Yeah, we can do the Gigi four and then maybe we'll save the next the other one for another time.
Yeah, the other ones, the lemon. It's 50 seeds of the low lab valley.
Lemon, cashmere. It's it was a limited edition thing back a couple of years ago.
I think it was done by the Indian land race exchange, like collaborations, maybe with Cha Science, something like that.
A friend of mine bought 500 of them and asked me to go have some with him.
So. And we basically paid about a dollar a seed for him.
These are pretty unique. You know, these are 50 day finish.
I sent you a PDF there comes with all kinds of information about the seeds.
There's they've done the Fino hunt that comes with quite an elaborate breakdown of the breeding that was done by those guys on this.
This is up in the low lab valley, which is elevation stuff, you know, 4000 to 10,000 feet, you know, up and up in that region.
It's super moist, 70 percent humidity all the time. Really cold winters.
Red stem stuff. It's pretty unique. The thing about it is it's super, super lemony.
You know, you hear people call things lemon and this this stuff right here is supposedly quite remarkable with lemon.
So sorry. So just quickly. So you want to do the the lemon cash cashmere tonight and hold off on the chem dog?
Yeah, I think it's OK. I think it's a little little more unique.
Yeah. And it comes up. Yeah. You could fit 50 seeds, right?
That's right. 50 days. You have flowering periods, 50 days.
Yeah, they've got two different Fino's. I can talk about it if you want to put the PDF up.
I don't know if you. Yeah, let me let me just quickly figure out how to do that.
So you talk and I'll eventually get it up. Yeah, sure.
The seeds, one of the things that's notable, the seeds only come up to the camera.
But these are the smallest cannabis seeds. Sorry.
Yeah, it's not a great not a great view, but the smallest seeds I've ever seen.
I did hear on germination that you've you've got to be a little more diligent with the imbibation period.
Some of some folks said that they even scarified the outside to get them to pop.
Other than that, great plants. It's you know, it's not going to throw a flower out of the first generation of these for sure.
That's going to be something that's marketable commercial wise.
I think that you can definitely bring a lemon to the table.
You get something that breeds real dominant on the other side. You'd be you'd be surprised what you can do in a few generations.
There was only 10 packs of these that were sold and they were sold first come first serve.
I don't know how we got in line, but yeah, I'd depart with 50 of them.
I think a great idea would be doing open pollination and then you'd have them forever.
These guys you can find them on IG and I think they've even taken this seed line to the next generation.
I've actually have F2 that I think or maybe even F3, two different phenotypes that they're getting from it.
They're getting a shorter plant, a taller plant. The taller plant has a little more spacing internodally between the flowers.
Both are red stem. The shorter plant has more tighter flower structure and that's the same way with the males.
You find two different phenotypes as well. About 30% of the plants have red to pinkish colored sap that come out of them.
Yeah, it's a pretty unique line.
I went on a spree years ago getting all of the short flowering, cold weather, higher elevation land race stuff I could get my hands on.
Okay, I finally exported the PDF to images.
There you go.
Yeah, so if you can go to the next page, maybe.
Keep going or?
Yeah, keep going.
That back that kind of shows the valley.
So this PDF, you know, you can get a hold of it.
They made some pretty cool observations about the seedlings as they came out.
They noticed that the plant, so these plants are what you might would call shade tolerant, kind of like Mr. Nice clone.
They're super phototrophic.
Then they noticed this while they were growing in the seedlings that the leaves really are more phototrophic than you might you might be used to.
I think another notable thing was that the males were throwing pollen two weeks into flower.
And it throws more of a white colored pollen that's plenty viable, not the typical pale yellow that we're used to seeing here in these in the States, you know, domestic hybrids.
So, yeah, they have two different types of plants type one and type two, they identified.
Like I said, the flowers that you're seeing here, smaller earlier stage, but this is this is more for, you know, being able to add to your palate as a breeder.
Yeah, kind of shows the difference in the flowers between the males and the females.
Real magenta red stems.
A little more green stem on that one.
But I think it's on the type two plants.
It's more like we see over here.
It's a response to shade.
Or an area that's not getting quite as much light.
In the type two, the type one is definitely red.
That's the shot everyone wanted to see.
Yeah.
Yeah, and whoever gets them, we can send this PDF right off to you.
I think I have it in image form as well.
All right.
What did that go for?
300, right?
Is that what you said?
Yeah, 300 kills.
Sorry, Trevor texted me.
Go ahead, Dan.
I would bid on those.
I would do three, 350.
Ooh.
Coming in with a snipe.
Unless you're...
A kill switch.
I don't know.
When the panel comes in the snipe.
Panel snipe.
If it's too late, don't worry.
How about I'll throw another 50 in and we'll let them both in at 300.
That is amazing.
Kill switch, does that work for you?
All right.
We got Dan and kill switch both at 300 for a 50 pack.
That's a steal.
Awesome.
Dan, when you're back in California, I fully expect to be smoking that with you.
Next year.
Somebody brought up a good point, though.
Nobody said the word exotic this whole time.
That's a failure.
Trevor, do you want to double enter that?
Kill switch, one at 300.
Dan also one at 300.
Then kill switch.
It's got a lemon on it.
That's pretty exotic.
Bio Vortex is growing these right now.
This is one of those trippy ones where you look at the pictures and you're like,
it doesn't bud that hard.
People who don't understand breeding don't really see the value in it.
What's trippy is this gets really big heads on the resin.
It smells like a true lemon, not like a Jack Lemon or like an Amsterdam Lemon.
Like a real lemon peel lemon smell, he said.
If you see the close-ups of the pictures, you see the size of the heads and you go,
okay, you could breed this with something, like Chadwick said, that's chunky.
Pretty quick, you could wind up with a chunky version of that lemon and it would be super dank.
It was trippy actually to look at those small, small veg pictures.
They looked a lot like some of the plants that pop out of the lime.
Some of the lime gets the red stem like that.
We know it to be from the Burmese is how it was originally came to us.
Then you say the white pollen too, out of the lime, the ones with the narrowest buds and the thinnest leaves.
Some of them get the white pollen and I mark it when I breed.
Like, okay, this one had the white pollen so that I know.
Some of these things over the years, I wind up seeing these original untouched land races
and being like, is that one of the thing that's really in it?
They got it as Burmese, but it was Burmese Kashmiri or it was Kashmiri and they called it Burmese
because that was hot and nobody had heard of it.
What's the story?
Some of these traits I see are hella similar.
I have some of those too.
I'm going to dig into them probably next year to see.
Anyway, I'm just throwing that out.
Zaza lemon, somebody said it's exotic.
This is real exotic shit though.
Honestly, it's from super far away.
It's the most untouched population that anybody's really seen.
It's like in the woods where nobody lives is where he brought these seeds from.
They're real wild shit.
Usually that kind of stuff doesn't have the crazy terpene profile or the big resin heads.
When you breed, you only need to borrow one trait.
You don't have to go, okay, I'm going to take this and now I'm going to make it.
Now it's all going to be like this thing.
You can borrow the big heads and the terps off of something.
Three or four generations down, you can make it so that you just took what you wanted from it.
That's pretty cool.
It's from a real war-torn area between India and Pakistan where it's hard to even live.
There's a lot of bugs and different things attacking the population.
I do imagine that it's going to bring a lot of resistance to stuff that maybe we don't even realize yet.
Jesse just texted me saying, I put the cherry lime dog on the low lab this year.
There you go.
That's the new Zaza.
All right.
Well, I think Yellow Hammer.
What's up, everybody?
This is an East Coast takeover so far.
Well, yeah.
I think we're going to start out with whichever one you want to do first.
We did some key lime puff, and then I seed.
So I got the key lime cut when I was out in Laytonville.
I lived out there for a while and ran it out there and then up in southern Oregon before I came out to Mass.
And I don't know.
It just was one that just kind of stuck around.
It was an interesting plant.
And when I was in Oregon, I started working on kind of a chemotype conversion process to convert some THC chemotypes into CBD-dominant chemotypes,
but retaining as much as possible phenotypic expression similar to the original mother as possible.
And so the key lime pie, we were able to work it a little faster towards CBD dominance.
In about four or five generations, we were able to achieve true type 3 CBD dominance in the key lime pie.
And so I've been making feminized hemp seeds since 2015, I guess, and made millions and millions of feminized seeds.
But I started growing in the late 90s, you know, and growing feminized seed for hemps, you know, when you're doing biomass production, CBD stuff's one thing.
But, you know, like growing up in Alabama in the late 90s, when you have a very small space and a very, you know, with plant counts and things like that,
and especially when it's, you know, potentially going to get you into a lot of trouble, you know, feminized seeds have a certain appeal.
But, you know, there was such a stigma against feminized seed, you know, a lot of the breeding I'd done,
we just kind of stayed away from feminized seed because of some of the problems that, you know,
we were seeing in some of the early generations of feminized seeds back in the early 2000s.
And most of that was just, you know, kind of improper reversal techniques and technology methodologies.
So anyways, the key lime pie cuts, you know, it's a cookie's cut.
It's been around for a while.
Burning bush used to make S1s of it, and it just become kind of rare.
It's kind of hard to get a hold of, so we thought we would just, you know, self-made, make some seeds available to everybody.
If anybody wants to run it, it just is what it is.
We crossed it to a couple of things, the Chem 91, which we'll throw a pack of those up in a minute.
And then what else?
We did it to the 1995 AK47 cut, did it to an OGKB, and just a few other things to play around with,
gene pool and see what's up with it.
Made some one-to-one stuff with it as well.
So yeah, there's some really interesting stuff in the key lime pie S1s.
And that's a picture of it, right?
Yeah, that's a picture of one, you know, just one of the...
That kind of purple coloration shows up a good bit in the S1s.
That one's actually a Holden seed right there.
That's an S1 that I found that I kept, and I really like the terpene profile.
I had a bit more of a limey kind of profile than the mother, kind of a unique citrus profile.
And so we kept that and made some other stuff with it.
But you see some stuff that pops out that looks a little bit like the platinum cut.
You see some stuff that pops out that looks, you know, like Thin Mint.
And I've ran all of those cookies cuts kind of next to each other,
and the key lime definitely yields way heavier than the rest if you push it indoors.
And it does well outdoors.
It's, you know, I grew it outside this year here in Western Mass, and no PM problems, no botrytis issues.
It finished up about the 21st, 23rd of October, I think, is when we took it down.
So it was a little bit late, but we had good weather this year here.
We're in a bit of a drought.
So, but yeah, the key lime ones, the key lime pious ones too, I noticed in making so many Feminine seeds,
there's a bit of vigor in these that I didn't expect.
A little bit, you know, sometimes you'll see a loss of vigor just a little in some of the S1s.
And I didn't see that as much with the S1s in this line.
So I thought that was kind of interesting.
So I don't know if, Jackson, if you know much about the history of this cut.
I got it from, shit, what was the name of that plant?
Artifact, I think.
And the guy at the Artifact Nursery that was there in Laytonville for a while, and he got it from the Burning Bush.
I don't know if they were the ones that found it.
Most of the information I've been able to find on it leads back to Burning Bush Nursery.
I don't even know if they're still around.
I don't know much about it.
I know, like, in Phyllis, it showed up as being close to Sherbert.
Skittles, those things, kind of like things that throw different kind of Sherbert-looking cookies type stuff.
Somebody asked, these aren't the CBD line.
These are just straight key lime S1s, right?
These are just the straight key lime S1s.
This is not a CBD.
This is a variety of chemotype in this one, right, in the S1s?
Well, the S1s are mostly THC dominant.
I mean, we have found some in the S1s.
This is the original mother reversed in the S1.
So there are some that show up with a decent amount of CBD in them.
I've seen some as high as 5% in the S1s.
Cool.
So that's different than a lot of stuff that you would think.
A lot of that more modern stuff, it's pretty much just all THC in it.
So it might be some kind of Afghani, Pakistani, more recent added to that other gene pool or something, maybe.
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know much about it.
I mean, I know in some of the OG lines, you'll see some CBD popping up at a decent percentage.
I've seen some OGs with 3%, 4%, 5% CBD.
But no, these are for the most part, you'll find THC, you know, dominant, dominant plants with below 1% CBD.
But there are the occasional few that pop out with some.
The effect is really sedative.
It's pretty potent.
I mean, I've kept it around for, you know, a couple, four or five years now.
So it's been worth keeping around.
It's a decent cut.
It does well.
Yields all right for cookies.
It's going to be interesting to see how it bred into this 95 AK-47 cut that I've had for a while.
That's an old one.
So.
Cascadian, you got to be the judge on this.
Scallywag had 220, but then after the timer ended, who came in?
At 235.
I mean, we've allowed it before.
Yeah.
But I don't know.
I would allow it.
It's for a good cause.
So even though Scallywag, we will make things right by you in the future.
I think we should go with the high bid to raise the money.
And Scallywag, we appreciate you being understanding.
So that was Cameron Snell.
So Cameron Snell.
I'll put the email address to make sure we have your contact info and I'll put the GoFundMe link.
Just give me a second because we'll move on.
We want to...
Dan, Yellowhammer.
You want to go again?
Do you have something else?
Yeah, I mean, we could do a pack of the Kim-91, Keylon Poffy, and the rest of that.
And then I'll do two packs on this one.
A pack that I've only made available once anywhere else.
And that was for an auction for Nick Risen.
And we'll do the Kim-91, Keylon Poffy, and a pack of the 1995 AK-47 across to Blueberry OG F2s.
So the winning bidder would get both?
Both packs.
Okay, sorry. So that's one, right? And what was the other one? The AK...
It's the 1995 AK-47 across to Blueberry OG.
Exotic.
That 1995 AK is exotic.
There's only a few people I think with that cut.
Sherd runs it down at their place down in Arizona, Sunday Goods.
It's the same cut that he's got.
Alright, so basically whoever wins gets that and that, right?
That's it.
Alright.
So yeah, the 1995 AK cut was...
It's a very unique kind of version of the AK.
And it was an accidental pollination that made the Blueberry original F1s, the Blueberry OG.
And I think I had like 10 of the seeds, maybe 11.
And I popped a couple and grew them out.
And this one I was living up in Medford, Oregon and decided to run them outdoors.
And was just absolutely blown away at what came out of those.
Basically, it was the AK structure, the AK...
Almost identical to the original mother and structure and bud density, yield, finish in time.
But it carried over just these really strong blueberry muffin kind of terpene profile from the dad, from that Blueberry OG male.
And so it's just really unique.
There's some pictures on my IG at yellowhammergenetics.
If you scroll through there, you'll see some of the pictures.
If you go back to around October 2018, you see some of the pictures of them outdoors.
And that's a really, really phenomenal one, especially just if that kind of happened by accident.
But the Chem 91 cut, being in mass, I was like, shoot, we've got to have that.
I didn't get that cut actually until I got here.
I had a cut of the 91 and the D when I was in Nevada back in 2014, 2015.
And I don't know if they had like the 91 had like hop latent virus or just dutted out.
It just didn't perform well.
And so I just tossed it, never grew it again.
And then when I got here to mass, I was actually in Amherst visiting with some new friends and whatnot.
And old timer there was like, hey, we've got the 91 cut and these, you know,
chems from out here in this area and they all know each other.
So I ran it and I actually ran it and ran some of the S1s from Caleb at CSI.
And it was unreal how close some of his S1s were to the original cut.
It was really, really interesting to see that terpene profile and point and structure and whatnot.
Just quickly, how many seeds in a pack for both these packs?
So there'll be 12 in the AK47 Blueberry OG pack and then seven.
You know, I'll make it a 10 pack on the S1s or the Chem 91 Key Lime Pie Cross.
We'll do 10 and 12.
Okay.
So normally do seven in the Fem stuff.
All right.
So and you saw those pictures I was just showing, right?
Yeah, that's just one of the phenos of the Chem 91 Key Lime Pie.
We popped a handful of those just to kind of see what they would do.
And they turned out really well.
It's kind of a unique marriage of the two.
You kind of get this like kind of chem terp profile with a unique mix of cookie dough
and just some funk going on in there.
Pretty unique.
And these were grown in, I think these were in one-gallon pots just with top dressing, organic,
and water, straight water.
So I didn't really push them hard.
But structure-wise, it seems to be a bit more sturdy too than just the Key Lime Pie on its own, obviously.
It provided a bit of rigidity to the structure.
All right.
And Cascadian, who's our winner?
Because I saw after the bell, Jason Roberts at 450.
450 seems like a good price for charity.
Yeah, I was waiting to see if somebody wanted to beat it still.
But there it is.
Fish Whistle with 475.
Damn.
Yeah, that's Fish Whistle.
And that is for not just one pack, but wait, there's more.
It's pretty exotic.
If somebody hits this at 500, I'll throw in some of the Strawberry Pie, Key Lime Pie,
and now I'm one to one, so we might do another 10 of those.
Oh, hell no.
And the Strawberry Pie is actually a Ringo's gift that it's won a couple of CBD cups.
And it hits about 25, 23% CBD.
25.
It's definitely the pinnacle.
You know, I've been breeding CBD stuff since 2014 and doing the Femseed since 2015.
But yeah, the Strawberry Pie was definitely kind of the pinnacle of what I've been able to breed terpene-wise on the CBD.
We've hit, you know, 5%, 4.5%, 5% indoors on the Strawberry Pie terpenes.
And it is very potent strawberry.
Like, it's kind of overwhelming.
And these one-to-ones come out really unique with kind of...
The Strawberry definitely overpowers the Key Lime Pie as far as the terpene profile,
but carries a bit more of the Key Lime Pie structure on the one-to-one, so.
Okay, so where do we Fish Whistle at? 525, right?
Yep.
For three packs.
Going once.
And Fish Whistle.
Thank you very much.
Nice.
Awesome.
Good deal.
That's a good one.
I'm gonna write that down.
Yeah.
If you can remember the two additional packs.
What are you stripping on over here?
I remember, but I'm kind of stoned, so I might forget in the morning.
Did you ask me that?
No, I was asking Gene what he's drinking there, man.
Your bottle looks like it has a big...
There's a lot of nothing in there, man.
It's this... I just tried it.
It's this thing from Russian River Brewing Company.
It's called Happy Hops IPA.
And I wanted to be happy, and I saw the beer.
So I got custy up.
It spoke to you.
And it tastes... Interestingly enough, I took the first sip.
It tastes like a heavy, heavy, like, busting open a guava in the jungle.
Like, it was like that fresh, crazy, like, just growing by the side of the trail guava.
And I was like, damn, okay.
The hops were super, super tropical.
It, like, says tropical on it, but I was like, that's guava, like, straight up.
It was cool.
It was stony.
I think it's like a 9%.
I wasn't sure if you were getting in.
What's that?
You were getting in on those scotchie brews that all the Terp dogs are hucking.
Have you seen those?
With all the crazy shit?
Man, I haven't.
I haven't.
You haven't got a chance to try that.
I haven't had all those ones.
I know T Beasle's been drinking crazy.
He's got, like, a crazy custom fridge for his beers and shit now.
All this crazy stuff.
But I haven't tried any of those.
I just kind of try, like, IPAs and stouts.
I usually drink Guinness.
And then, that's just, like, chilling.
But, like, when I'm trying to party, because this is a huge party right now, you know.
And I do that.
I've been doing the IPAs.
And then I have this, I got the old Rasputin stouts.
That's what I was drinking too.
That's another 9%.
So, it's almost like drinking wine by the barrel, you know.
But I'm out.
So, I got to get another one.
I like doing a little whiskey in those old Rasputins, mixing it in there.
Or bourbon.
That's savage, dude.
In Jamaica, they take the, like, the overproof rum.
It's like 126 proof.
They take that and then they pour that in the beer, you know.
So, it's like, you take a sip of beer and pour, like, two ounces of rum in it.
And it's like, alright, now that's a drink.
It's like, why even fuck with a beer?
It's nothing even in there, but something to drink.
But this guy over here, Peter, he said he was going to hang with me.
I think I might have lapped him here on a beer.
I'm on beer number two.
This is a Roush beer.
Is it empty?
I got the tap.
I just installed my tap.
I posted on it a couple days ago.
This was my first one.
And number two is halfway.
Well, what do you want?
You're on number two or you're about to go to number three?
I'm ready to go grab number three.
I drank a little Rasputin.
Yes, you are.
They're like 10 ounces or something.
And then I drank this one.
It's like, I don't know.
It's like all these beers are on there.
It's only 9.45.
Yeah, it's like a 10 ounce beer and then like a 14 ounce beer or some shit.
I don't even know what this one is.
It's not a 20 and it's not a 12.
It looks big because it's close to the screen.
So my mom's German and we drank a lot of beer in Germany growing up.
Yeah, I did.
I think I've got one.
Did I fall asleep?
Was it the last time we did the auction or was it another night?
But yeah, I passed out.
Fortunately, I think I had it on like a solo shot of someone else.
Oh, it was with Tyler from Grassroots.
I don't even know what else came on.
The irrigation guy who was supposed to come on with us ghosted us.
And so we just talked and whatever.
But all right, let's keep going.
Dan, you want to go one more time for the East Coast and then we'll move west?
And by the way, Jesse, I don't know, Jesse, if you're listening, if you want to jump on.
Who else was supposedly?
Okay, Finest, we're going to postpone.
Shilo, I don't know if you're listening, but I sent you a link to jump on.
Oh, what's that?
But yeah, I just think this last one.
Camp OVA, who?
Yeah, I think it was.
I think it was.
I think it was.
Yeah.
Yeah, I just asked what I was looking and I'm looking some of his fucking hammer hammer.
This stuff is fucking foul.
Like it just it's a ring.
I kind of don't want to smoke it because I just.
Oh, it makes me feel one.
All right, so.
Dan, you want to do one last one?
I'd like to hear about that five.
Geez, red.
Yeah, yeah, let's do the five.
Red one.
All right, let me find it.
You start talking.
I'll look for it.
All right.
And I'm I'm doing a little bit of scotch.
Yeah, so cheers, everybody.
All right.
So this is 12 seeds, correct?
Yeah, it should be.
It should be at least 12.
OK.
Yeah, so this is a five.
He's read into that same Girl Scout sour line and the five.
Just read what I just quickly.
Take a look at that.
Yeah, more or less.
Yeah.
Yeah, so.
Yeah, so the five.
These five.
These was one of the first hybrids that I made when I moved to California.
So, you know, the short.
Well, it's not really a short story, but so it's my first year in humble and I was running a cool and a buddy of mine got fired from another gig that he was in.
And he showed up and he had this this plant with him and he was like, hey, man, this is my favorite weed.
We just throw this in your head stash and grow it out for me so I can smoke it.
And so I pollinated pretty much all the lower branches of it.
And it was a diesel, which was an F-13 cross F-13 sour diesel that came from southern Trinity County.
And so anyway, long story short, with the five G's, it's a five way polyhybrid.
So there's a ton of variation.
So I grew out a bunch of them the next year when I moved on to a bigger property and gave seeds to a bunch of my neighbors.
This is like gifts to neighbors like here's some cool seeds I made.
Let's see what's in it.
And everything that everybody grew was crazy, but all totally different, as you would expect.
And so the five G's red was the one that to me was more dominant towards a Cinderella ninety nine.
It had these big fat plump buds, but they were also relatively long and had some sativa influence to the flower and the leaf structure.
And just like the feeling that it gave me and the hairs were more orange is so like with the purple, you have these really deep purple swollen calyxes.
The five G's yellow, you have this like real, real crusty resin and the five G's blue.
You have like this tangy, sweet, you know, floral mix and then these big like arm, you know, baseball bat nugs.
And so the red was the earliest to finish and it was, you know, by far the I think probably the most resistant over time to powder mildew and mold.
And so the original F1 cut, I saved it, you know, luckily, and I gave it to a buddy who eventually I think lost it in like a bust or something.
But it was just beautiful herb.
It was the type of thing where you have a buyer come up, they're looking at a whole ton of weed and they're like, do you have another hundred of those?
Because that's all I want. And I'm like, it's a four pound plant.
That's all I got, you know.
So anyway, so I worked the red towards that line to represent that.
And what I found is that I used two different males, an A and the B that was selected from a lot.
And I pass on a little bit more purple traits than I had intended.
So what you find in the five G's red is kind of this like pink grapefruit kind of pineapple-y, you know, guava type nose with like some crusty, you know,
always like a kind of a gas background.
But I love smoking the five G's red.
That was this year. I probably I kept like a 20 pound head stash and just mason jars.
I filled up this whole dresser and everybody would come over.
We'd just like go through, you know, 40, 50, 60 different varieties.
And, you know, whenever I wasn't smoking some type of sour diesel line or a really good chem, I'd always go to the five G's red.
And that was probably the last time I ever smoked Blue Dream.
And so anyway, story of that is when I made the Stardust, that was the same time that we made that and put the Girl Scout sour diesel.
The lineage that you have listed, it's not that I mean, I guess it is accurate.
It's basically a back cross of that Girl Scout line.
So it's one more generation back towards the Girl Scout and then that into the five G's red.
And I gave a bunch of seeds to this this good buddy of mine.
And he was running like a really large operation in Salinas.
And he's like, oh, I'm going to hunt through a whole bunch of your stuff.
I'm like, what do you crack? And he's like, oh, I did the five G's red, you know, Girl Scout back cross.
And I was like kind of a little bummed out that that's what he would have selected because he had so much cool stuff to go through.
He's like, no, no, I found this one plant and everybody loves it because it's it's super resistant and it finishes.
Early and it's like a super chunky Girl Scout dominant plant, but just way bigger buds and way easier to grow.
And so he was calling it ninety nine cookies.
And what's funny is I don't I don't really like like smoking it.
But that clone has been passed around Salinas and Monterey.
And so whenever you see ninety nine cookies in California, that's what that is.
It's just kind of like a generic phenotype that I would have selected.
And so he gave us the cut a couple of years ago and we depped a bunch of it.
And I was like, yeah, you know, chunky, easy to grow cookies, but a little kind of blander cardboard taste to that that, you know.
And so we grew out a whole bunch of them just to see what was in there.
And what was cool is that we found a bunch of stuff that had more influence or is the five G's red in the in the nose.
But really kind of like a mix of cookies and not like the the cardboard bland cookies, but like the you still smell it in the air and it's kind of sweet cookies.
And so when we did the first, you know, test batch on running some of those F1s out, there is this one that I smoked where I was like, you know, going all these people who like didn't even know, you know, hadn't really run the five years.
And I'm like, look, look at this. It's five years red. No, I've been looking for this. This is fucking great, you know.
And I smoked it and I hit it like I would a sativa. You know, I'm like ripping this thing. It tastes so fucking good.
And it really was strong, like way stronger, like a lot of cookie stuff.
And it hit me like way, way harder than than expected.
I had to like, you know, chill out, meditate, drink some water, you know, type stone, real unexpected and powerful.
So we grew out a bunch of those to to make seeds with and just kind of find out what was in there.
Did kind of an open pollination in its own little hoopty selecting that I thought were a little bit less Girl Scout dominant.
And then when we went through them, what I found was for an F1, I was expecting to find a little bit more variation.
But pretty much all it was big, chunky, girl scout looking plants, some with more Girl Scout dominance than others.
And then like pretty much about half of them have that five G's red influence.
And some of them are more like sweet. You know, the great the the like pineapple guava, you know, orange hair, light lime green bud, beautiful one.
And the others had that same structure and the same color and the same look.
But when you look at it, they have like cookies, resin glands and a little more, you know, cookie dominance to the flower.
And and so that was from the open pollination from this.
And then we selected those and then we've we've given these out.
And so, yeah, I mean, that's what you find.
You either find like a denser five G's red with with more potency or you find totally cookie dominant looking stuff that yields really well.
It is more vigorous and easy to grow with these like big fat, you know, big kind of leaves.
And then you find the kind of the 50 50 range that looks like the five G's red, but has the resin glands and more of the nose from the cookie side.
So just quickly, this applies to you and other people who go, but kind of nuances of growing this out.
Yeah, I mean, what's cool about it is that five G's red was just so easy to grow.
And relatively early flowering.
So for anybody who in the past has grown cookie clones, they're kind of finicky and sensitive to over watering or over feeding or over light, you know, whatever.
And so it's just it's an easy plant to grow and grows really, really nice weed.
Some people might think that the cookie looking stuff is more marketable, but that that real five G's red F1 dominant type phenotype is just a beautiful, beautiful, unique plant.
And it's got just, you know, great qualities in terms of being huge, yielding and more vigorous than the cookie ones.
But I just like the look and the smell in terms of weed that I like to smoke.
I, you know, I smoke a lot of stuff that's so similar.
And this is kind of something that I look at and it makes me smoke something different, you know.
Thank you. So.
First of all, Trevor, our man behind the scenes, is doing an amazing job with data entry tonight.
Everybody, a round of applause for Trevor.
Everybody just staring at me with a blank.
There we go. Thank you.
Oh, my God. Seattle Chronic, you're visible.
You went from the darkness to the light.
So, all right.
So that's the last one.
Yes, we can always do more next week.
We evidently we're doing these weekly.
But we try to last.
Say that again.
I still have that custom glass piece that I was going to do, but.
Oh, yeah.
What do you want to do it tonight or you want to do it another time or.
I mean, it's up to you.
If you have a picture of it, you could do it.
But you got a lot of other stuff to get to.
So we can always say, yeah, let's do it.
Let's do it another time.
You can.
You can come back on any Tuesday night.
I'm hoping we.
We can do it.
Yeah, my personal hope is that maybe we do it every other week.
Every week's a bit aggressive on the schedule.
And speaking of glass.
Sour silicate is sending out.
The glass to those who bought his hammers and kits.
And I'm hoping that we can do it every other week.
For those who bought his hammers and kits.
OK, so.
Yeah.
Let's hold off on that.
And Seattle Chronic.
Now that you're visible and hopefully hearable.
Who would you like to hear from next?
Oh, man, I think let's go back through Yellowhammer again.
Staying on the East Coast.
to do this. Yeah. While you're
here, if you got anything else
for sure, I saw somebody in the
comments a minute ago, say
something about some pure CBD
stuff and so um I figure we
can throw up. Yeah, throw up
some pure CBD stuff. So, um
we've really been working on
improving you know the CBD
smoke flower market. It's
really kind of been exploding
well. Um I don't think um a lot
of the genetics being grown
have kept up really with the
market as far as quality.
There's some unique stuff
coming out. Um so but we've
been working on that and I
think we'll do one of those um
our strawberry orange trifle
strain. Um it's across of our
um ACDC Harley Sue uh
Strawberry pie and um the the
T one um cut which is kind of
a pure Afghani um the ACDC
Harley Sue is really kind of
heavy phenotype that you know
you can take it 12 weeks
indoor. Um this strain can be
ran as hemp um outdoors uh but
I will say with the new .3%
total THC, I would be careful
running this large scale. This
I mean you can um do it. You
just have to be really careful.
Um we've we had it past test in
this year. No problem within
the 15 day window. Um I just
say be careful. Um it has a
tendency to go hot if if it
gets highly stressed. Um but
when I say it goes hot, it it
hits about um you know first
October, you're going to be
about .35.4% total THC if you
stressed it but it should be
around .2 total. Um it's on
flower only though, right? I
mean, no, you can definitely
produce biomass from this thing.
It yields crazy heavy. Um
there's kind of two different
phenotypes that pop out of this.
There's um if you don't drop the
you'll see some that are um
very bulbous in shape and kind
of lean more towards that um
T1 um line which was you know
very broad leaf um kind of
indica dominant. It looks like
some of the pure um you know
more broad leaf dominant uh THC
varieties and so from kind of
yeah there's a picture of the
flower um overpowering citrus
um really unique kind of spear
shape. Some of them come out
looking a lot like the um
Super Skunk, Mass Super Skunk
in their flower structure um
but yeah really great unique
marriage of two different very
different um uh phenotypes that
produce really really vigorous
plants. The flowering time on
these we found a couple that um
were were absolutely done um at
about seven weeks. So some of
them finish really really early
uh on average though I would
take I would take it most
everything to eight weeks but
you can find some really early
finishing phenos in there. Um
max CBD content we've seen
these hit 23-24 percent um CBD
um almost 30 percent 31 percent
total cannabinoids. You'll see
some CBC pop up in there kind
of you know up to two three
percent and some of the
chemotype phenotypes um but yeah
just as far as CBD smokeable
flower is very unique as far as
terpene profile uh a very fruity
citrus um but also a lot of gas
on the back end um and and just
kind of funk. It's very very
um terpene laden. It washes
well. Uh we just did some fresh
frozen uh and uh washed it a
bit and the yields are really
really nice on uh on the wash.
So if anybody wants to do live
resin uh or wash for CBD hash
it's it's a good one. Um yeah.
And did you say how many seeds
are in the pack? Um we'll do
we'll do 15. We'll do 15 on
these. Yeah. So I think that's
about it. Um I think that's
about it. Um I think that's
about it. Um I think that's
about it. Yeah. So and then
this is not these sold out
almost instantly when we sold
them. Um we only made 5000 of
these and they almost
disappeared instantly and then
I think I've got a hundred
left. I'm not sure if I'm gonna
remake it. Um probably not. Um
just because I'm moving on to
you know different stuff but
um these are these are the
phenomenal um if you want
smokeable CBD flower. Chadwick
you just got up in. What's the
uh indoor flowering times on
these generally around for you?
Yeah. Well, 6 to 8 weeks we
found some that um we did the
very first test run we did. We
did ten um of them and out of
the ten, two were finished
right away. So, um, I think
that's about it. Um, I think
that's about it. Um, I think
that's about it. Um, I think
and then 10. Out of the ten
two or finished right about 6
weeks. um forty 40 days. You
know uh from flip and then
a couple we went. you know um
we took him to sixty but
probably gonna take him down
a little earlier. Um
outdoors uh here in
new England, they
finished up um right
about the first of November
um for most of everything
and then let's say about 25% of the phenos you could have,
of the crop you could have taken around October the 20th,
which kind of surprised me a little bit
with them finishing so early indoor.
I thought that they would finish up sooner outside,
but they didn't.
On the West Coast, they finished up a little earlier
and we had a pretty bad drought here.
And the test plot did these on a definitely
didn't water as much.
So that could have had something to do
with them finishing much later.
I had a friend growing them in Southern California
and they're filled and they finished up.
Everything was done by mid October.
So I'm thinking it could just be,
but I did observe that.
That's a good one for greenhouse hemp flower production,
CBD flower production as well.
Just with a quick finish in time.
So you can pull a lot of crops
and light up greenhouse for hemp flower.
We just did a bulk sale on this and we're getting,
I think we were getting 1,800 wholesale
a pound for this flower.
Super impressive for hemp.
Yeah, for hemp.
Yeah, it's super impressive.
You know the wash percentages by chance?
Like generally people always ask what to wash at.
So if you had an estimate that's too.
Yeah, I would, I'd have to go back and look at my notes,
but I wanna say it was yielding around 21%,
20% as the numbers I think I was given, 2021.
So a lot of the hemp stuff and CBD stuff
we've been washing is like, you know,
it's a very low yield, like six, seven, eight, 10% max
for some reason.
Have you been washing any CBD stuff, Seattle?
I have not this year as much.
I had some issues with my hemp farm.
So just crazy shit with the fires and all,
but yeah, I haven't had a chance.
I'm actually gonna go wash some CBG here shortly,
probably the next two or three weeks
once everything finishes.
We brought down a house of CBG
and I'm gonna help my friend Hoku
wash and press a bunch of that.
So I'll let you guys know how that kind of goes
on returns and stuff.
Yeah, I got ransom as Laberna.
Yep, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, it was pretty interesting.
It's a whole house of Siba that he had going
and so it's more kind of like the T1 Ghani dominant
real stout thick plants and looks like
it's gonna wash pretty well.
That's why I was recommending,
he was like, well, I don't know what to do.
I was like, let's wash it all.
Let's do it.
Yeah, I mean, it'd be interesting
to see how the CBG stuff washes.
It's a first for me.
So I'll definitely, I take notes of everything.
I'll let everybody know how it kind of turns out.
But yeah, I haven't watched a whole lot of CBD personally.
I've kind of more when I do washes
it's definitely THC dominant stuff
or one-to-ones as well, but you haven't really focused.
I know the same thing to where it's just
with the head specifically,
you don't get a large return on most everything.
That when I met you in Denver, Rob,
they had those CBG dabs.
Yeah, oh yeah.
Do you remember that?
That was legit.
Those were legit.
I don't know.
I don't remember the company to be honest,
but they were fucking really, really good.
I probably still have some in my bag.
So I'm sure I got a bunch of CBG dabs, man.
I'll have to plug you next time I see it.
Yeah, it's really, CBG is a really interesting chemical,
interesting compound.
Very unique, very cool.
Gonna be interesting to see that kind of
creep into the CBD market
and get itself out there into the world.
I think it's a good time to have a strong place
with the anxiety.
I mean, our world, especially right now,
the anxiety, you know.
Yeah, everybody's been stressed out.
The world could use it.
My anxiety today was at about seven at night
when someone was like,
so do we have someone,
do we have somewhere set up for the donations to go to?
And I was like, wait, what?
On the fly.
Yeah, no, fortunately,
as I was like cooking dinner for my kids.
So we have a BioVortex sighting.
Is there like an alarm you can find,
a whistle or something?
Has anybody got a sound effect?
Look at that.
Hey.
Oh my God.
Jesus.
We have the whole Brady bunch.
It's very white and very male.
It's the white male Brady bunch.
There's Alice in the middle.
You were right about Michael.
Yeah.
It's the bearded bunch.
So Jesse, what are you gonna throw up tonight?
Tonight, I think you have the pictures too.
The motor breath times banana SFE dog.
Wait, Jesse, oh wait, sorry.
Did you, yeah, give me, all right.
You talk, I'll find what you're talking about.
Banana breath.
Banana breath.
That's what I'm gonna do.
Banana breath.
That's great.
Try to include the word exotic.
20 times at least.
Got to see some really nice flowers from Moongazer
that came out so nice.
But so far, yeah, really, really nice for hash and flowers.
Extremely resistant, very strong.
But it's definitely a dumper.
Really, really good one for salt and lust.
And it's got the like.
Yeah, and actually specifically,
cause I asked you, I was like,
someone mentioned you have something
that's amazing for hash.
And that, so for anybody who is washing
this is something to bid on, right?
High yields, really, really nice quality.
There's gas, there's kind of,
there actually is kind of like a grandma breath quality
in some of it too.
There's a little cool, yeah, breath thing to it.
There's definitely like bananas and really, yeah,
really interesting.
And you can just see like when you roll,
just the way all the trichomes dump.
Every time I pick up a joint from it,
it's kind of ridiculous what's left over.
And I have seen really, really nice
for awesome instrument already this year
and really, really good yields.
Did you have those pictures at all?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, give me one second.
So, all right, so yeah, give me,
so this is Naz breath, hold on one second.
Very mold resistant too.
It is a late season, but it doesn't rot
and just grows really, really.
Sorry, wait, wait, wait, hold that up again in the darkness.
In the darkness.
All right, and then we have, that's frosty.
You can see the quality of the trichomes for hash.
Yeah, it was just those three pictures, right?
That's straight hugelkultur grown,
like so just water and soil.
Moongazer farms.
Yeah, I remember in,
at the dragonfly again, event, her stuff,
everyone was loving it.
Oh no, that's moon made farms that you're thinking.
I'm sorry, moon made, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, not moongazer farming.
But moon made, she was, Tina was crushing it.
Yeah, moongazer, yes, that's what we're talking about.
Tina crushed the cherry lime dog this year.
She did the BC1F2 number three,
which was going by cherry moon,
but those flowers are incredible,
just gorgeous, thick, chunky,
finished before October 1st, 4.6% terps,
really nice profile, and they were,
it was, the testing was over 26%.
And sorry, was this 20 seeds?
Yes.
Wow, okay.
There's, also there's a link to moongazer farms
that you can show those flowers growing.
Oh, right.
On their Instagram.
And you said that was hugelkultur grown,
with all that resin?
Yeah, completely hugelkultur grown,
which is cool too, because they do like land management
and just fire reduction,
all the chainsaw work goes right into the mounds
that grows the cannabis,
mixed with the goat manure and tons of interplanning
and cover cropping mulching.
Nice.
Yeah, those came out super nice.
It's a little pixelated.
If that's hugelkultur, if I take a 100K dub
and I blow diesel exhaust on that
and feed it with 30, 10, 10,
am I gonna get it to really, really frost up?
Yeah, it's gonna frost up then, yeah.
Okay.
Pfft.
Exactly.
Was that pixelated for everyone or is that just me?
I didn't even know about the diesel exhaust tech, fuck.
That's that gas, fool.
Yeah, that's the motor breath.
Thick looking lady.
All bio vortex gear is straight zaza.
Thanks.
Animal rot.
So for 20 seeds, what's our current high bid at?
Last I saw was two.
We have a 275 from Marley.
I already want to keep my name high.
Biggest 27.
Marley looks like they live somewhere beautiful.
Yeah.
Marley, is that picture where you're spending lockdown?
That's the zaza right there.
Yeah.
So it's okay.
Yeah, it looks like Marley's gonna take it.
Not just 10 seeds, but 20 seeds.
Yeah, you'll find lots of real high yield.
There's lots of dumpers in there.
All right, Sativa Smurf is telling me to
slow down the scrolling through the pit.
Oh, we got a...
I assume that's Trinity County.
You could probably even hand...
You could hand deliver the seeds.
How far from Trinity are you?
Not that far.
It could be really far, it could be not that far.
They're all like countries up here.
Marley is not in a tropical location.
Marley's in NorCal.
Yeah, I think that's pretty cool.
Just like the flowers being grown out of
the actual...
Okay, so JGMurdoc, is that a bid?
Can you clarify if that's an actual bid?
Sounds like a bid to me.
JG who pulled some of the packs last week.
Send them here.
Yes, okay, good.
That's the answer I was hoping for.
Come on Trinity, save me from the lockdown.
We have a...
Is that a Matt Riot?
No, that's Masonic.
Yeah, by the way, Matt,
do you wanna come on with Masonic and have a...
That's already Masonic, that ain't Matt.
Yeah, I can never keep up with...
All right, so was it...
Where'd you go?
All right, yeah, I think that's a wrap.
Yup.
So 320, right?
That would be a good interview.
Riot and Masonic.
And what would be your first...
If each of you were the interviewer,
what would your first question be?
I don't think you get a chance to answer, ask a question.
Okay, so JMurdoc, let me...
I don't know.
JGMurdoc.
JG.
Let me...
JGMurdoc, go see.
Did we lose?
Do I not see our MC?
I know, there you are, you're in the upper right.
We keep jumping around.
In the upper right corner.
So do you wanna queue up whatever?
Yeah, let's go ahead and move on to...
I think that Cherry Lime Dog cross with a black dog,
that caught my eye immediately out of everything.
So you could go ahead and talk about that.
Yeah, I think the picture that I sent to,
it's actually dry farmed, high water farms,
gorgeous flowers.
It being put back on the black dog,
like it just makes it chunkier and chunkier,
but it brings that,
it still has that Cherry Lime Pop from Jackson,
like shining through in the aroma,
but it has this insane kush structure,
the berries mixed in with it.
It just like, yeah,
everyone harvesting that stuff too,
like fell in love with it.
I kept getting texts just like,
oh my God, like every time they're smelling
that particular version of it too
with the black dog VC5,
put back onto the last year's Cherry Lime Dog selection.
Yeah, they're just easy to grow.
They don't need much of anything really.
And they finished pretty early too,
be like first week of October.
Very high turps.
Very high turps, yeah.
Lots of cherry and lemon.
And there's like the bright sour candy stuff happening too.
Yeah, really, really tasty work.
Like you just wanna stand in front of the plants
and smell them all day long.
Kind of break down that male for people as well.
I mean, that has my eye out of everything.
I know the Cherry Lime Dog is special sounding,
but that black dog looks pretty phenomenal.
If you just wanna run down them.
Yeah, so from the,
I was doing, I took selections from the VC5.
So doing a back cross on my favorite black dog
multiple times.
I then at the VC5, then took it to the F3.
And then each, yeah.
So each year I was making a selection from,
so just stacking it so much.
So it is that original black dog.
There's just very little of anything else in there.
It's just so much genetic.
But even the males look like the females.
They're just so similar.
Very, very, very similar plants.
Incredibly stable too.
Most anything I put that on,
it can take out any kind of intersex tendencies.
And everything comes out just super chunky
and finishes pretty early.
So what are we looking at here?
That's the black dog,
that's Cherry Lime Dog times black dog VC5 F2.
This is Zaza number Zaza.
I'm literally drooling over here.
That was an F2 selection of the Cherry Lime Dog.
And then the black dog VC5 F2 put on that.
It's beautiful work, man.
They're like pretty like purple punch,
but then they have the crazy, crazy turps.
Which we have you to thank for that.
But the heart of the craziness of those turps
is definitely what came out of that 2016
HGAS Cherry Lime Pop that you gifted me back then.
Just the aromas on those were amazing.
It was like, oh, I would just wanna stack this
inside black dog and then get all the stuff
that I want out of that,
but still have that shine through.
How many seeds is this?
That's 22.
Thank you.
420 to my luck.
Dan, thanks for helping out.
Yo, good seeing everybody.
Hell yeah, Dan.
It's nice seeing you, man.
Appreciate it.
Right on.
The bounce, have a good night, everybody.
Peace.
You too, dude.
See you, Dan.
And the pretty bunch was no more.
450.
And do we mention these are exotic seeds?
Very exotic.
These are exotic.
The cherry lime pop that I gave him
that he put in there is the cherry pie bag seed cut
that I made cherry lime made with.
But I went ahead and hit it with a more exotic,
actually really was a more exotic lime selection,
different male, that I made the cherry lime made with.
And it was that lime pop male.
So then I called that the cherry lime pop
and that's what I gave him.
And there like the cherry lime pop itself is like,
there was like really crazy fruit flavor perfume stuff
in that and like bamboo, I think won an award with that
making carts out of it.
And like was like the highest terp test
that people had really seen in CO2 oil
when he made those like 24% or something as well.
It was crazy how good they were at CO2.
Like there's.
Yeah, just lip smacking.
You're like, this is CO2.
Like I thought CO2 wasn't good,
but this tastes fucking good.
Like they taste like life carts.
And the plants, the cool thing about those is like
they didn't mold.
They didn't wanna get mildew.
They hardly needed support.
They got really fat.
Like all the full-size ones that I did of them
were between like six and nine pounds and they were fire.
And the reason why I, when I made them,
I made them to release.
And then I grew out the F1
and I gave them to a few other people
and everybody else's did fine.
But mine, it was like a quarter of them
got a couple balls up on the main stem,
like cherry pie will throw sometimes.
And then I gave them to buy a Vortex and he did them.
And he put them with his black dog
and the black dog just like stapled it up.
And all of a sudden it's like,
oh, now that stuff's not popping out anymore.
So it's cool because it's, you know,
it's all that good stuff in it, but then it's cleaned up.
So he's done some cool work with it.
Whoever's getting it, it's getting a steal on it.
It looks like.
And actually the only way anyone's gotten them so far
is through these release auctions.
It's mad appreciated.
What are we sitting at right now for it?
I think we're done, right?
Yeah, 450. I think it was 450
to 13 Jake 23.
That's a good deal.
Yeah, let's steal that.
Two excellent seeds.
So 13 Jake 23 and for everybody who wins,
two things, one, send Trevor an email who's on standby.
He's just sitting in the email inbox.
Donate at dagadotlove and then make your donation
at that GoFundMe link.
And Josephine Sierra,
I see that you're stuck all alone on Facebook.
She's tuned in from Facebook and wanting to bid,
but you can bid from Facebook
and I'll just post your bid amount.
But evidently she's unable to YouTube.
She's only able to Facebook.
But all right, Mr. Chronic,
what would you like to see next?
Let's move on to the Banana Dog.
Yeah, it's a classic Banana OG
with that same Black Dog VC5 F2.
Insanely consistent.
They're just great hashers, great chunky flowers.
Done middle of October.
Just, it doesn't really throw many types.
Like everything looks great in the bag together.
Really resistant.
Doesn't rot easy, but gets really, really chunky.
And another dumper for ice water hash.
Really, really great flavor profile
and just the perfect kind of trichomorphology
to catch really well.
And you said that was Banana OG you saw that?
Yeah, Banana OG.
Yeah, it's, yeah, just a really, really great Banana OG cut
that held on for a long time and love breeding with.
It brings out really, really nice quality trichomes
for ice water yield.
So being able to utilize that with other flavors
and stuff too, it's a really useful clone for breeding.
Is that a Oregon Kids cut?
I believe so.
You know, it's, fuck, I actually sent him
a whole bunch of different versions of the process of it.
And he didn't realize that they were like,
he was looking at, I'd given him the calendar.
So like the regen calendar.
And they were like looking through the pictures
and I think his partner spilled a shake onto the calendar
and ended up throwing it away.
And then like the seeds hadn't happened to be
go to the garbage too.
And like, so I have to get it to him again.
But I believe it probably was,
I didn't get it directly from him, but I believe so.
Yeah, just from him.
So it's definitely got that super Banana flavor
to it for sure.
Had it a long time.
Yeah, really, yeah, awesome.
Awesome cut for ice water, for having that Banana Terraplake.
Been watching it for a lot of years and it just so.
So Armin just tuned in and asked how long we're going.
Did you guys ever watch the Three Stooges Marathons
on New Year's Eve?
Back in like the 80s?
Oh yeah.
You're showing your age.
So yeah, so we're going, and I assume that ended
at like 6 a.m.
So we're going strong till 6 a.m.
No, I'm joking.
I don't feel like saying that.
Yeah, it got real quiet all of a sudden.
We're at 200.
What's the outdoor finish time on that?
Second week of October.
And yeah, I had friends do really well with it in depth too,
which is always nice to know that like,
there's no issues, consistent.
Lots of plants all like looking good together.
No intersex issues at all.
Not a lot of phenotypical variation between them?
No, it's all like, yeah, pretty, pretty like right
in the middle between the two,
the chunkiness of the black dog.
But like kind of a, just a banana, just frosty all around.
Yeah, beautiful nug that just washes super well
if that's what you want to do too.
Somebody's getting a steal it sounds like on these.
Some banana dog, so Eugene currently.
Eugene, don't call me tiny Archibald.
Marley Kenjana.
I think Josh's phone may be dead.
Hold on, let me see what.
See if we can get back in.
Mr. Marley.
I'm just like looking at that picture
knowing there's places that are like that right now,
this time of year while it's raining and turning cold here.
It's like being on the moon and looking back at earth.
I think that's why.
So how many seeds is that?
Is that also 20?
Also 20.
Yeah, 20, 20 hash yielding monsters.
They do get huge.
Definitely saw some big ones this year.
Looks like pretty much everything you hit with that mail
I just instantly improved on for the most part.
I mean, I'd love to see some more pictures of that too
because it's everything it seems like you showed was beautiful.
Chris Roberts increments of five, not ones.
Chris Roberts increments of five, not ones.
But you've already been outbid.
Mercface, let me.
Trevor, who is standing by in the email inbox,
will let you know if he got your email,
but I can also take a look.
Yes, I see you in the email inbox.
Hey, it's Mercface.
Mercface McBulletwounds.
Yes, I see your email.
I will deal with all the administrative fun tomorrow.
What are we at?
We're at 350 still?
350.
That's the same thing the monster said.
Anyone listen to that David Cho, Joe Rogan?
I'm out running into the Congo after the dinosaur.
Just so good.
Jackson, have you cracked open beer number four?
I'm about to start number three.
This is number three, I think, right here.
I'll be back.
And hopefully when I come back, somebody will top tiny.
I'm like a 40 deep right now on this 9% brew.
You went for another of the IPA?
This is Old Rasputin right here.
I did a couple of these and I did a bigger brew
that was Happy Hops or something from Sonoma County.
Tasted just like guava.
It's a great, great tasting,
for if you like hoppy shit, you know?
That Rasputin's more like a barley wine or something.
Isn't it though?
It's a heavy stout.
It's like, you know, it's got that toasted,
roasted malt stout flavor.
It's nice.
Some of the banana cracker, or banana,
as we dog here that like,
it has some guava qualities to it too.
Nice.
Guava's a cool flavor.
It's one of those funny things
because the fruit itself kind of sucks
because it's so full of fucking seeds
that when you go to eat it, it's just like,
well, where's the fruit here?
But the flavor is fucking good.
If you like it.
I mean, I guess it's kind of perfumey, but.
Cascadian disappeared, but did Eugene Archibald win?
That's the last I saw was it 350 for Eugene.
We didn't have any sort of countdown.
He just kind of ran off.
And so we'll get to Eugene at that point.
350.
So hasn't kind of hop breeding like blown up
in terms of like teasing out different
kind of hop flavor profiles?
I think so.
And I think they're kind of hunting down the old shit.
The one that I was drinking said the original version
of it was from like 1947 or 44.
That IPA.
They were saying they were recreating the old recipe.
It's a 1942 pills.
Yeah.
I mean, you know, stuff like Guinness, I think is like,
I can't remember.
That's like a 1850 recipe or something.
It's from way back.
I think they just had like a 200 year anniversary
or 250 year anniversary a couple of years ago or something.
There it is.
Cascading, we couldn't call it without you,
but I think.
Oh yeah, yeah.
No, it's Eugene for 350.
Okay.
350, Eugene.
All right, so Eugene.
Good guy, got a lot of windows open.
Trevor, who's on standby.
Yeah.
Eugene seems like paid.
If I'm understanding that text correctly,
Eugene has already paid,
but I may not be understanding the text correctly.
But Eugene, or maybe he's just telling me what.
I know, sorry, Eugene, you did not pay.
So, all right.
So, Mr. Kronick.
Yes, sir.
I think since we still have Chadwick here,
do you wanna do the last pack as well?
The Kim Dogg special reserve by chance?
You wanna save that for another time, sir?
Is he muted?
Is he still here?
He's got his thing going.
He does the way I'm in for a while.
He's stupid, that Rio has kicking in.
There's much for me to do.
What?
Chadwick, maybe jump off and jump back on.
Your microphone got a little bit of the alcohol.
Yeah, someone said robots attack.
It's pretty awesome.
Dimension.
It was a really good impression of that drunk slur
on the robot tone, it was nice.
All right, so hold on.
So, while he's coming back, let me just...
Who won that last one?
Eugene.
Eugene, that's right.
I am on the planet, dog.
Eugene Archibald.
I thought I already posted that, but...
Make your donation.
Okay, so did other people...
I'm gonna go ahead and do that.
Okay, so did...
Oh, there he is, he's back.
All right, let's see.
How do you sound?
My ear pods died.
Ah, okay.
I had to plug them in, charge them for a bit.
They're back on now.
I don't know.
I can hear you guys.
Yeah, no, you sound good.
Very good.
All right, so you...
Go ahead.
I think we're gonna say the same thing.
So either one of us...
If you wanna do the ChemDog Special Reserve
cross with that Gorilla Glue.
Yeah, I can do that one.
So go ahead and give us the breakdown there, kind sir.
Yeah, I picked up Gorilla Glue 4
back just as soon as it came out.
We've got it over here in Maine.
And for the most part,
the couple of clones that were floating around
real similar.
And then I got to go out west a couple of times
and, you know, Midnation and tasted
and I was pretty convinced we had the right clone here.
And then I took that same ChemDog Special Reserve mail
that I crossed with the Chem 4
and I ran him right into the Gorilla Glue 4
and I could do 20 seeds on that, actually.
Wow, okay.
Yeah, yeah.
That's unexpected.
Yeah, I was thinking about this earlier.
So I've got enough that I can definitely do 20.
So I better write that down too.
Jackson's on his three beer pee break right now.
So it's 9, 10, and I'm close behind, I gotta go pee.
So why don't you wax poetic
about ChemDog Special Reserve cross with GG4
and I'm gonna go pee.
Yeah, so everything from the Special Reserve
that we hit was 25% and higher.
We were pulling 28s, 26s
on stuff that we were testing.
I mean, it was pretty obvious
the ones that were more fired than others.
And that mail, like I said,
it was a little more chocolatey and earth toned
on the ChemDog side,
but it had the nice great branch structure
where light can get all the way down
through to the bottom buds.
Not a lot of maintenance at all required
on either of the plants.
I think the Gorilla Glue that we had,
I think it tested around 22%, 21 might've been.
I know it was over 20 because that's how we touted it,
that most of the progeny that we were getting
were between 20 and we never had anything
hit more than 28 that we tested.
These seeds are now out of this batch are four years old.
I'm not making them anymore.
I don't hold Gorilla Glue 4 anymore.
I do have some of those original ChemDog Special Reserves
that Jodra gave me,
but it'd be real hard to try to make it again.
Yeah.
Just finding that mail.
Those were more chocolate leaners as well.
So it's more kind of that chocolate
and diesel influence on the chem.
Yeah, that's the direction I was headed
with Gorilla Glue and the chem.
And I leaned that way because of the earlier finish
and the resistance.
The plants were a little more orb shaped
and had stronger shoulders on them knuckles,
which helped them to be a little more wind resistance.
Then some of those special reserves
were really tall plants from seed.
I usually transplant about 12 inch to 24 inch clones
or seedlings.
And my gardens soil tested every year
at the University of Maine
and I get organic recommendations.
And so we're really dialed in.
I got a hose right there delivering 6.5 pH water
right to the girls from a 400 foot well,
right on a beautiful river.
So I'm pretty fortunate.
Sounds beautiful, man.
Yeah, it's the forest, Maine.
It's a lot better than where I'm at right now.
What were the flowering times on that as well?
October 2nd to 3rd week of October.
2nd and 3rd.
Yeah, nothing finished any earlier than the second week.
You were lucky to find some earlier like that.
The thing that we were finding though
was that anything that was a little bit earlier
was chocolate or earthy, more earthy.
That real hard chem flavor, chem smell.
It's so fire and comes out early with the flowers.
You can smell it when you're walking in the garden.
Most of those plants were the taller, wispier,
a little bit more wind, needed some support.
So Jaime was just topped by Thai Buds with a 350 bid.
I remember 20 feeds everybody.
So you're getting a steal.
You're getting two packs essentially
of some Chemdog special reserve and GG4 across.
That's super chem chocolate diesel love.
Yeah, I saw this.
I've seen a field of, back in the day,
a gorilla grove, a couple of hundred of these.
And it's pretty true across the board.
You can see that you're getting Chemdog
on one side of the spectrum, not too chemmy.
There are some really tall plants.
I had seedlings in my garden
that were right around nine to 10 feet tall.
The better stuff though was really eight foot
and a little more compact and took advantage
of the light better and its energy to beef its structure up.
All right, it looks like we have some Lihue.
Oh, coming in late.
Oh my God, Thai Buds.
That's what he wants and he's claiming.
Man knows what's good for him.
And yeah, Eugene Archibald, we got your email.
And let me just give everybody a visual
of what Trevor looks like as he's standing by.
I kind of got away from the gorilla glue
because I was afraid everybody was gonna,
it was so hot for the minute there.
And I just assumed that everybody was gonna have
gorilla glue hybrids not long after.
I mean, there are some, but there's not too many.
No, I was kind of the same way, honestly.
I got kind of tired and felt it was a little played out.
And then as soon as I got rid of my cut,
I was like, oh, son of a bitch.
Immediately regret it.
It was something that I kind of, especially the whole,
I mean, I've got it back again and stuff,
but it just, it's not the same.
Lost some health.
All right, so Thai Buds.
What?
But T Wayne thinks it's gonna go up to 600.
So let's see if anybody.
Let's make it happen, y'all.
And for whoever wins this pack,
Trevor is standing by in the email inbox
waiting for your email.
There's the actual seeds right there.
Lahu, wait, keep that up.
There they are.
Lahu, those seeds could be yours
if nobody talks your $420 bid.
No, I think Ty's gonna say something about it.
I see a 450 coming up.
Yeah, they are really dark seeds.
That's right.
The only bigger seed that I've seen
than these ones right here
were the creme brulee seeds that I got from Jodri.
Those were huge seeds.
But these here are really large as well and dark.
And I'm assuming that's coming
from the ChemDog Special Reserve.
I don't remember the Chem4 really notably.
I ran a lot of different stuff into the Chem4
and I don't remember it throwing large seeds herself.
It was more than likely coming from the mail side.
And is that a map of coastal Maine behind you?
Yeah, that's a state map right there.
So right in the middle of that map, where am I at?
I'm right in here.
Right in that area.
It's kind of funny because most everything,
I mean 95% of the state's forested
and everything above me pretty much doesn't have a name.
It's unsettled territory.
It's like T2, R2, D2.
Just has numbers and squares.
Nobody really lives there.
It's mostly owned by paper companies
but it's largely unsettled.
Property's cheap.
It's a lot like Northern California, I'm told.
Okay, so Cascadian, do we have...
Yeah, can you throw in a Maine lobster?
Ha ha ha ha ha.
Ooh, the shipping would kill me on that.
We could get this to 500.
The shipping and the dry ice would kill me on that.
I have sent them to the UK though.
All right, so I don't even remember
who our winning bidder was.
The Lu had 420.
Lu who?
I guess if anybody in 10 seconds can top that.
Yeah, some wicked pista lobster.
How about some lobster bisque?
Yeah.
Or some clam chowda, some chowda.
Wicked.
Wicked.
I'm originally from Oklahoma, so I'm a transplant here.
But I've been here a couple of decades.
Yeah, and by the way, Kevin's accent,
Rhode Island accent, is a very real,
it's not a faux accent.
Yeah, I've been here.
Cranston,
Wowick.
I don't know if Kevin's still awake right now.
Yeah, he sounds much more like the area than I do.
I was born and raised in central Oklahoma.
So I still meet people here after being here 20 years.
I've been in Maine as long as he's been,
as Joder has been in California.
Kind of doing the same thing.
There you go.
There you go.
Okay, so we have.
450 was the last one.
450 from Rastaman Vibes.
I'm bummed, I had a couple
musical guests lined up for tonight.
Uh-oh.
I liked hearing that Dr. John, that was.
That was good.
Well, I mean, we have some awesome stuff
coming.
We have, yeah.
All right, so yeah, Lobster Rolls.
All right, so Rastaman Vibes.
Nobody's topped that, right?
So are we calling it?
Yeah, so we're wrapping up.
I say we call it.
Okay, so Rastaman Vibes, where are you?
All right, Mr. MC, where do you wanna go next?
I think I'll donate a cut of Melvin's, actually.
So I'll just kind of give you guys a rundown
of it really quick and let you know
why it's kind of special to me.
Yeah, I think I'm gonna donate one cut.
It's something I'm only letting out generally for auctions.
The last one I let out was for the previous auction,
for Leo.
So Melvin's essentially is a Z-Cross,
Skittles, Wonderland cut.
And I had a 1Z F2 male that I used.
It was an F2, and 1Z is the one
which is Clackamas Coot's fabled cut.
It's a 71 Candor Afghan crossed with a 76 tie.
And I had a ZQ male that I was able to find
from a few dying breed Z-Packs.
I did a hunt on that.
He just added a little bit of a fruit flavor,
but more structure and stability,
a little extra trichrome production.
He was just kind of a super stud that I found
and used on a few projects,
but I ended up finding a lot with the 1Z.
And so I kind of searched.
I did about, I'm not gonna say the count,
but a pretty massive seed hunt on the F2s
and ended up finding an amazing male
that went through pretty much hell and back.
I put him outside, brought him in
through probably two separate years
of having him go through cold heat trials,
pest tolerance, resistance.
And he was extra special.
I mean, in all the stuff I bred in THC dominance,
he was like one of the better males that I've had.
And so breeding him over to the Z
was essentially just kind of bringing more stability
because anyone that's grown Z knows
it's just kind of a pain in the ass.
It's like OGKB, just kind of a slow finicky plant,
easy to overfeed, underfeed.
It sucks at cloning.
I mean, I usually got like a super low quarter percent range
like 25% and under, I would say 20.
Then with the Melvins,
I was able to get up in the 90 plus range.
Terps went out, I mean, usually in the five to six range
for indoor stuff, high 20s.
I'm running a few beds of it now,
and it's been honestly one of the best yielding
smelling plants that I've created in THC dominance.
And just something that I kind of have believed in.
I haven't released it at all.
I haven't done, I'm making S1s of it right now,
but not something I'm ever really gonna release
in a regular seed farm.
It's probably the first project where I'm gonna say that
and do that just primarily because I had an error
due to hunting seeds and ants and mice getting in.
And so I had like 1200 seeds destroyed
and I pretty much was only able to come away
with this one female out of everything
that I created for it.
And that's all I have left now.
And so it's just, it's kind of years and years of a project
that I didn't even necessarily set to go down.
It just kind of obtained the Z cut
and everything worked out the way it should have.
So yeah, I'm gonna let one cut out.
I might throw in another unanimous cut,
but I'll definitely throw one out there.
So let's go ahead.
Did you see that?
I did.
Yeah, let's start it off at a hundred bucks.
I mean, it's pretty.
And someone asked by cut, is it seeds or clones?
I assume seeds.
It's a cut, yes.
No, it's a cut.
Oh, it's a cut.
Okay, all right.
Really?
And is that only within the US or we ship out globally?
That is correct.
No, just due to everything that's been kind of going on
in other locations, I think it's,
if they're willing, that's fine.
But I'm just gonna say that with the way shipping's been,
it's probably not a smart idea.
Okay, so this is for the,
not including Alaska and Hawaii US, how about that?
I think that's fair to say.
Okay.
Unless they wanna pay priority, it's a possibility.
So I mean, can still make it in two days.
I've had it.
I mean, three days isn't a problem.
Lehu.
And again, this is something
that I usually breeders don't really let out.
And it's not something I'm gonna readily let out.
Just again, tonight is kind of an on the whim thing.
So whoever gets it's gonna.
He's six bears in right now.
He's gonna regret this in the morning.
I'm gonna be like, I did what?
You did what?
Tommy knows what's up.
He's a fellow bidder.
He's been through this through thick and thin.
Shout out to Tommy Tricomes.
And by the way, where is?
Trevor is standing by to take your donation.
I might just take a few shots up on my page
if you wanted to go up to it too.
I might have some done.
All right, give me a second.
Can you go over the cross again
with the genetic makeup of this?
Yep, so it's a Z Skittles.
It's a Wonderland cut.
Kevin Jodry's cut.
And then that's crossed with a 1Z F2.
And a 1Z is 71 Kandar Afghani
crossed with 76 tie and that's a Clapton's Coots cut.
And then I crossed that with a Z cube.
It's kind of like line work in the Z
to be a little more effective
without having to put in as much work
just through selection.
I mean, I was able to kind of dial things in
and not have to do as much line reading
through the years as I would have.
I think the Z cube really kind of helped me
hit the nail on the head on that one personally.
Like the male I found that he was just kind of perfection
where he just added, I mean,
everything kind of came out stable.
And there wasn't any phenotypical dominance between any,
I was just the same thing pretty much throughout
which it was kind of blown away by it.
And I also think it had to do with the cut use
the one's beautiful plant,
something that Clapton's Coot,
he really just,
he wasn't into kind of reading it with hype and stuff.
I mean, he was completely against that.
And I don't know, it just, for some reason it fit to me.
I think kind of putting those two things together,
it worked out.
And I think I would actually like to send him a cut of it
to see what he thinks.
Changes my mind.
So just quickly, what am I looking for on the Instagram?
Melvin's.
Okay, what is this all about?
I didn't even know it.
No Nut November.
You gotta put the audio on for it, man.
It doesn't do anything.
All right, we'll come back to that
cause I can't get the audio.
We're boycotting that shit.
Oh, wait, sorry.
And by the way, someone's topped that last.
That's what it is.
He's boycotting No Nut.
He says, not as much as you want.
Oh my God, we have,
we have, oh my God, shoot.
You guys, by the way, if that's really the two of you,
do you guys wanna come on?
That would be phenomenal.
That would just make our nights.
All right, so let me send them the,
all right, I'm multitasking right now.
All right, so, hold.
All right, let me cut back to you.
All right, so what am I looking for?
Melvin's.
Melvin's, right.
Just play that.
Just play that the rest of the time
and people will be just stumped as to what's going on.
Is it further down from the Thai truffle?
It should be.
It should be further up the range.
Here we go.
Yeah, I found it.
All right, here we go.
Three, two, boom.
That's a decent shot over.
Are there more further down?
There should be.
If not, I have like a ton on my phone I need to upload
because I just did the beds.
I just haven't uploaded stuff in a while, unfortunately.
I've kind of had to.
Oh yeah, so let me,
Miracle Grow some ball shots.
Not mine, Mel.
Did you like this?
I fucking, I made this like two years ago
when we were doing, yeah, no,
I reached out to Sean Kemp to be like,
do you want to come on?
And I wanted to like make those
and then like be wearing them when he comes on.
Yeah, no, I can make it, man.
I'll go to the store.
All right, let me,
oh, sorry.
So Masonic and Matt,
let me send you guys,
if either of you wants to join us right now.
But so we had a winner, right?
Or no, I see 310.
Oh, Phil Mobley, okay.
What, who did we just lose?
I think our buds died.
Oh, is that Chadwick?
All right, so wait, so Mike Spangler, you're in Smithfield?
I dated a girl from North Smithfield.
Oh, Tommy Tricone's at 330.
All right, so Masonic, give me one second.
If you want to put a pack up.
He's reading right now.
He's smirking.
I ain't a smirk.
That's a grin.
Grasp your skin as they call it, teeth skin.
Just smiling because there's two,
there's just Masonic, he can't log in.
There's Masonic on two accounts, you know?
I just said on the comments,
he invented the one man circle jerk.
You can only do that on the internet.
It's not possible in real life.
Name's Sonic.
All right, I'm totally confused
because evidently, I don't know if he got deleted or?
It was all a sham.
I don't know if he got deleted.
I don't know if he got deleted.
I don't know if he got deleted.
I don't know if he got deleted.
I don't know if he got deleted.
It was all a sham.
There are like eight different Masonic smoker accounts.
One has three posts, 50 followers.
Okay.
Masonic's original account had like 20,000 followers
and 60,000 posts.
Okay, so wait.
All right, so Tommy, you're now up to 350.
All right.
Tommy's gonna take this one.
Someone asked if it comes with an LED light in there.
I mean, I guess.
I can't say the quality of that light,
but I can throw one in there for you.
Blurble for days.
And a bunch of those crappy lights sitting around.
I'll just throw them in with free every auction or something.
Okay, so hold on.
Let me, yeah, now let me.
Is it the account?
There's.
All right, good God.
I'm going as fast as I'm.
Does everybody else get like when you're on Instagram
on the, on like the search.
So I have, I have like that girl.
It's like all like scantily clad girls.
That's just the algorithm
because that's what you usually search.
But I don't, but that's what I'm getting.
And then my wife's like.
Mine's all like cacti and arrowheads and shit.
You know?
Okay, so Ms. Sonic, tell me if.
Good God, that this.
Anyway, what are we at?
Yeah, I'm trying to focus.
350.
I think we're still at 350.
Yeah, let's call it.
Okay, and who was it?
360, there's a 360.
Oh, there's a 360.
Yeah, there's.
360.
Yeah, there's 360.
Yeah.
Okay.
See who put it up.
I'm guessing this is the right.
It's the one with Molly.
Oh, weird.
Okay, so I'm following you back.
I just requested a follow back.
I'm totally, there are like eight different
Ms. Sonic Smoker IG accounts.
And I have no idea which one's the real one.
Nobody.
All the real ones say Riot Seeds, I think.
The one that just added you.
Tommy just said he doesn't agree
and he put a bit up for 375.
Okay.
My man.
Cause he knows there's an LED light coming with it.
Good God, Ms. Sonic.
Well, why, can you just post your IG in the chat window?
And then I can figure out which one you are.
It's never gonna happen.
Head games.
He says, I'll come to your facility
and S1 everything, keep smirking.
Ah, here we go.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
All right, I found you.
Okay.
Now, look at that.
This is.
It'd be super silly to see someone show up
in the woods to S1 my facility.
Okay.
Okay.
My God, that took forever.
But look at that while I was,
while everyone was watching me try to figure out
which Instagram account.
We're already at 400.
Twink Philip.
All right, so now let's move on to Matt Riott.
Okay.
We could have the death match.
Anytime.
All right, so wait, so Phil, all right,
so as I'm tuning back in, oh my God.
All right, so wait, so Phil, all right,
so as I'm tuning.
We have a little time delay.
All right, so wait, so Phil, all right, so.
Good Lord.
There we go.
I'm trying to like, time delay.
Matt, put some headphones.
There you go.
I have two things on.
All right, so Philip Mobley, am I correct that Philip,
yeah, everybody's supportive of the,
there we go.
All right.
All right.
All right, so.
Let's just call the auction.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, no, we're at 400 for, who was it?
Philip, Philip Mobley.
Okay, so.
All right, and what do you wanna do next?
Let's let Masonic go.
Okay.
All right, so hold on.
Now that you have your headphones, I can remove the,
okay.
You wanna throw something up?
I don't think he can hear you.
He's being silent.
Baby's crying.
Stay on the internet, huh?
All right, so Philip Mobley.
I love how he signed in as Variety C Company, though.
Philip Mobley, I did see that.
Make your donation here.
Okay.
He's taking his time.
Gotta get more headgear.
Oh, so Trevor, if you're listening,
did you get into the email?
Trevor was actually not standing by on the email.
But Trevor, let me know if you got into the email.
Well, while we're waiting for him.
Yeah, let's go through and put something else up.
That's what I'm talking about.
All right, so what do you want?
Oh, wait, he's back.
There we go, I told you, more equipment.
It's the right equipment.
It's in stereo, Mike.
See if he can hear me.
We can hear you.
Gotcha.
All right.
What's good, homie?
People want the gas.
What up, foes?
We got ride seat coat.
Big ride in the house.
You got any packs you want to throw up and donate for this?
Anything special?
Any kind of any gear you want to throw up?
I'll do a 30 pack of a dealer's choice.
And we can start at 100 bucks
and I'll sell it at whatever price the stop's at.
Damn, you heard it here.
All right, so we got a 30 pack starting at 100 bucks.
I'll think about it.
I'll even throw up some of the cool new ride seat coat seats
that I made, the right berry, the blue record,
the laser, I got you on all those.
Dealer's choice, you heard it.
Oh, okay.
I got to love.
I'll throw it up a Pai God thing cross as well.
Keeps throwing, keeps getting better and better.
Then we're gonna start heating up here.
Scallywag.
I'll throw it up sold out Wilson F2 as well.
Oh, shit.
I think the bomb was just dropped.
Yup, Dustin said that he knows what's up.
While we're watching this, I love barter.
Tell me something you've bartered recently
that you're psyched that you got.
Oh, shit.
What did I get recently?
Just recently, fuck, man.
I don't know.
I'm getting a bunch of Pokemon cards right now
and those things get me excited, so that's cool.
Scallywag is tenacious.
Give me a water, baby girl.
Like a pit bull that won't let go.
Those six, you idiot.
So what are you working on now, Masonic?
What's new?
What's coming down the line from you?
Wilson times everything, man.
That's the motto, so.
Wilson times the world.
By the way, do you guys get Chinese lighting companies
asking you to use their lights?
I think I've gotten like three in the past two days.
Like lights or your requests?
No, no, they wanna send lights.
That's the algorithm again, man.
You keep buying these Chinese lights.
All right, so we're at Dustin Stoner at 666.
Sick ass move.
That's a terrible number.
Had somebody bid over it.
Yeah, please.
So we're doing a 30 pack so far.
We're doing a Papaya God in cross
and we're doing the Wilson F2.
The two seeds, the last two that I said are sold out.
You can't even get those anymore.
Or they're gone, sold out,
whatever the fuck you wanna call it.
And what's Wilson?
Banana OG, papaya times Tropicana F2.
That's what Wilson is.
And that's my stud used in everything.
Shout out Wilson.
And it's frosty and it dumps hash.
It takes huge dumps, all that good stuff.
Okay, so wait, what did we end that?
We ended that.
Satan, Satan.
666, right.
Did you actually win it?
Holy shit.
Oh no, somebody won with 666.
That's why I'm yelling Satan.
Just randomly yelling that shit.
My wife's like,
my wife's like,
she's still traumatized.
She has PTSD from my drinking days.
She had to be on me like fucking all the time.
Making sure I don't say that stupid.
We got the Desani, the best water in the world, man.
Shout out Coca-Cola.
Doing numbers, Coca-Cola numbers, baby.
We got a Frank the Tank comment.
There's a 670.
Beautiful.
Oh, I'll throw in my open pollination guide as well.
And an all-star card.
I forgot I had those.
And a dab mat.
I got a new dab mat I could throw in there too.
Fuck it.
I got you, winner.
How about a Pokemon card?
Fuck you, get your own Pokemon card.
Fuck you, get your own Pokemon card.
Fuck you, get your own Pokemon card.
Fuck you.
All right.
Trevor, I got your text.
Let me...
I got to write this shit down too so I don't forget.
Somebody just cleared out storage
and sent it all to somebody.
They took the whole fuckin' seed bank
after this fuckin' winning bid.
You're stepping it up.
I'm still on the beer.
That's how you make Jamaican beer.
Top floor wants to see a Masonic root beer drop.
Check it out.
Root beer, I shit you not.
Skunk Tech grew that sour gelato out.
He brought some of those seeds to Emerald Cup 2018 or 2019.
He gave me some of that weed and it had seeds in it.
I'm like, oh, what might be the potential melt?
He said it might have been the root beer that hermed on them.
I got sour gelato, potential root beer herm times Wilson if anybody wants some of those.
Great provenance there, huh?
I broke good everything.
Easy does it.
This might be it.
It's like Ryeberry.
Maybe it's not.
Maybe it is.
You know what I mean?
Honesty is the best policy.
Mark Face at 700.
I'm so sorry.
I had to troubleshoot Trevor.
Trevor, I'm going to email you.
So just check your email in about 20 seconds.
Hey, you ready for that Black Lime Reserve Wilson though, Gene?
Coming soon to a garden near you?
Yeah.
I thought you already had it.
I do have it.
I have the seeds right here.
I just need to grow it.
All right.
So you got the Black Lime Reserve.
I thought you already made Black Lime Reserve Wilson a long time ago.
Nah, fool, you're tripping.
All right.
I did Black Lime Reserve Orange Cookies times Wilson a long time ago.
And what, two years, three years?
That's not too long ago.
Sick ass food.
Okay.
So where are we at?
So Trevor, I just sent you the email.
No blue bonnet?
Nah, not yet.
I haven't dropped the blue bonnet yet.
Jesus Christ, what is happening?
It's 1130 in Compton, California.
It's usually reading time, but we're on the future cannabis project tonight.
Anybody else got that new Call of Duty PlayStation?
What's up?
Nah.
That new Fargo is fire.
Anybody watching that new Fargo?
Fire.
Chris Rock?
Flames.
Is that like on Netflix or what's that?
Hulu.
Yeah, you should watch that, G.
Watch all the Fargo seasons.
That's like season five already.
So they're all really good.
Really cool show.
It's really cool.
We're gonna get spacey.
Can I get another water baby?
I'm gonna be pissing all night.
Okay.
So.
720 is it?
Cascadian.
Baller.
That's what I'm talking about.
Yeah, 720 is the one.
So that's Trevor who is standing by Murkface McBullet Wounds.
What a name
He wanted to go to my pop-up and I had people like
Sydney messages so I could screen them
But his screen name was Robin motherfuckers and he was trying to find out why I wouldn't let him come to the pop-up
Yeah, you can't go to your profile name
Okay, so
Murk face
Let's see if Trevor I'll make a bullet wound. That's when you muzzle your gunshot with with the Big Mac
Okay, so Murk face let me
Alright, mr. Chronic
All right, mr. Chronic
What direction do you want to go in
Now we haven't done any big name packs or anything I thought there was a few thug folks
We just did a bunch of big name packs. We just did
your big name packs I'm saying like
From people who aren't on the screen right now
I'm playing with you. I know I know
Let's go with that. I think either there was a sea junkie back or
Let me
So there's a few peanut butter breaths Sophie's bread
Yeah, the PBB 12 yes, all right you want to do one of those yeah, let's do that
Those tend to be good sellers, all right, so you guys want to
Talk about them
Peanut butter breath is fire. I've grown it for like two years crossed it to Wilson twice two different
You know, he knows of it good shit everything that came out of it didn't wash
Well, but it hit at least 3% which is pretty cool for something that I didn't expect to wash
Yeah, and it's been going for
I mean quite a bit of pretty much every auction we've had
most packs tend to go for I
Mean six plus it seems like it's pretty worthy of it. So I've grown it out quite a few times
And yeah, I found some pretty consistent stuff in it about the same
Not the biggest washer, but I mean it yields real well pretty flowers. What's the chirping profile?
peanut butter some breath
It's got that kind of grandpa's breath smell to it
It doesn't lead towards Mando breath. That's for fucking sure or whatever, you know
Is that what's into it? But am I wrong? Am I right? I don't know but it ain't fruity or nothing like that. No
No, that breath kind of has like that cottony stale shit smell or whatever like stale peanut butter or something I guess
Let me see. I'm like checking right now
Everybody's on the Google. Yeah
I mean, that's what it's here for, you know, fucking we don't got to remember everything in the world
So who won the last one it was uh
Murkface, all right, murk
Murkface mcmurder mickey ears
Yeah, dosi mendo breath exactly
So every time I smoke mendo breath I get like fruity shit from it. So
This shit ain't fruity. It's it's on the dosi side of the spectrum
But it's it's sexy like mendo breath it gets the purple hues and all that shit in there
Maybe even deep purple not too violet
And this will kind of determine who's still here too
What's the action starting at we have 324 plants
Peanut butter breath you get your money back once you start cloning it and doing whatever the fuck you got to do with it
So it's well worth every penny. It's very sought after you tell somebody you got peanut butter breath
They're probably gonna tell you let me look at it
Let me smile. Yeah, let me see
Straight up lean in lean in close
Let me joe biden your neck
Let me wear your mask
I'm your garden. I I thought uh, like a funny t-shirt would be like
I
I'd rather have my shoulders rubbed by joe biden than my pussy by donald trump
It's all personal preference you gotta let people decide you can't politicize everything
Not here smelling me was really good though, that was really
It was so easy though
You know, you can't that was like one of those ones that well, hey somebody already did this but i'm gonna do it
Anyway, somebody did that shit i'm sure
They had to have
I don't know. Yeah, you're right. It was an excellent meme jesse
I wonder if my plants feel that way though too though like i'm like shit
But did you have think about really last time you rubbed your fingers on that resin if you really had consent, dude
Yeah
Did you really really made me think about the way think about it
You could be canceled right now for a plant you rubbed in 1998
You really think back and you're like am I a piece of shit
That indica was it even an indica? Did I even did I totally misnomer that fucking thing?
Was it I was just barely a broadleaf drug type like I might be a piece of shit dude
You gotta think about these things jesse
You can't just let yourself fucking free fall through life
While touching every plant in your garden and calling it a fucking sativa when in reality, it's you know
You don't even know it's not even a real name, man
Anyway, i'm gonna get down off my soapbox, but you know check yourself check your
Before you wreck yourself
Yes, hold on well, that's still playing
Dough it's not what I want. Yeah 385. That's like the lowest i've ever seen one of these packs go for
Somebody's stealing this shit
It's a good good deal right now
I feel like every show someone says this but this is currently the best
Show ever recorded
If we could only got matt on man, that would it has been extra special
Right if matt's if matt if you're actually watching
um
I did send you a link in
Instagram dm to jump on as well
The only way to really make it happen is if maysona could join with a different haircut because he's got like four accounts
Uh, three of them are riot seeds
So jake, where's your
All right, jake, let me find your 450
Yeah, I don't see any
450 400 man. That's he's saying he's saying 450
He says he thought he said 450
All right
He can still say it
Oh, yeah, so I need to find
shonald trump
It's coming in at 420
How does the fundraiser going what are we looking at I have no idea, uh
Some of those fly by the seat of your pants can't can't trevor
Actually, I could probably tally up so far. Um
three and a half hours
Now how eight nine seven. Yeah, we have been going three and a half hours. Uh
equals
some
Three five seven
Okay, but that's just
A couple people have it
So is anybody yeah, what's the three thousand five hundred seventy?
What's in the go fund me it looks like
So on the last one we did at the very end. We did that special indica cross
And we didn't ever do that. So we're gonna do that again
At the very end we did that special indica cross and we didn't ever hear from the dude who ended up winning that I think
Did you ever hear from that guy peter, uh, yeah, give me one second. Um
Because I got those to get them if they want and
I figured we could put more of those up because someone else
Offered to match that if they could get the same thing
But I thought maybe we could do a little run of those or something, okay, so hold on, uh, so from last week
Now they paid, uh today
Okay, so just shoot me that. Yeah. Yeah. No, I'll connect you. Yeah that that was a
$700 that was the very last thing we did before we called it a night. Yeah
Yeah, yeah the special indica cross with ghost og special indica
uh
Yeah, so I need to connect you with them. Um, cool
The the only one from last week. We're still waiting on is uh, the bacon grease
pandemic
family tree seeds, uh
pack
But that's good. If it's most of them. Yeah. No, it's uh out of
19 items auctioned only one is still unaccounted for
that's my experience with uh
Charity auctions as they go really good
When they're not charity, they seem to go worse when I talk to people. It's trippy
But it makes sense. I guess
When it's charity people kind of a little more
I don't know a little more of a fire under their ass because they wanted to do it for a better
cause I guess
Makes sense
Especially in this day and age. Yeah
Okay, so cascading what it were
Jake apple at 450 or
I think it was jake jay, but some reason I said jake apple, uh, shawn trump said 420
I don't know if the other guy really said 450 or not
So between 420 and 450
What makes the uh special indica special with where did you get the name
Uh, it was a cross that kind of had all the cool indicas that I had from back in the day
So it had big blue black appy big red and hindu kush
All in it plus it had the um, the hollywood pier kush in it. So it was like, um, I had one year I had the um,
the big blue cross black appy
Which was killer and I didn't get a mail out of it that I liked
And I had a um, I had a big red hindu kush pk what I call og cuddler or red hindu kush
I had a mail that was really nice. So I took that and put it on the big blue black appy
and it came out being cool and there was a little bit of a mix between like
ones that lean towards what I would consider to be like the
Og cuddler with kind of a grapefruity
Squirt kind of smell and then the other ones that were more like the black appy big blue
Which is more of like the deep indica that I really really like
like a earthy
kind of um
You know like uh earthy
Like not skunky but some of that skunk to it and then some of that like the coffee and stuff
and then um
So then when I have those crossed together and I and I grew them out when I went to label them
It was like to me. I was like, okay. Boom. I put on the label special indica because it was like a mix of the
like
the 80s 90s indicas that I really really liked, you know, and um, so
There was all those in it and then like the the pk in it just kind of gets
Washed out but adds a little mold resistance and and stretch so it grows a little bit bigger of a plant
and um
So I had that
and I grew
The number four and really liked that and kept a clone out of it. And then
I also crossed
the brother of
The one I got out of that with a ghost
And with a ghost og and then that made it more mold resistant
So then the seeds that I auctioned off last time was the uh special indica for number one
um, which I kept as a clone because it was dark and it was more like the big blue which is like a really like
I I'm more
More of a crazy high to a broadleaf afghani than you're thinking you're gonna get you think it's gonna be sleepy and shit
But it's actually like you're like, oh fuck i'm fucking high like it really is more overwhelming
And then um
So I put that on
I I had that and I kept that and then the brother of that one. I put on the ghost and then when I popped those
Those were super cool last year
So then this year I grew more of those and I put that onto the special indica for number one
and um
Those were the seeds that I put in on the auction and uh, you know, I haven't seen exactly what they do
But i'm really familiar with blue happy red hindu
PK ghost and that's what it is and the ghost brings mold resistance. It brings a little stretch
um, it doesn't dilute the potency because you know, you're dealing with real old school og
and um
You know you get like a real cool a real cool thing that uh
Is all of what that old indica is but with that added mold resistance that you get with the ghost and the pk so
They're cool ones
Yeah
What were they like last year, I mean, I know this is a different batch but
So last year I I tried a few of them because I was curious to see what they were like and honestly
I think I started probably like 20 of them, but I only kept like three girls because
um
I figured
Because I I had a bunch of them. I just wanted to see
It's like it needed to have I needed to I needed to just grow out the ones that I knew were kind of
What I was looking for
So it was like when ones were a little bit more
One way or another I kind of just got rid of them early and I finished out a few of them
And they were good. But one of them was a real standout and it has the big blue throws have like this
like
indigo blue jeans color
to the leaves when they finish
Like super blue
and so
I did those
I got the one that was really like that and when I smoked it, I hoped it would be like the big blue
I hope the color kind of traveled literally like blue jeans or like that silvery green or like
Like it turns blue like you know how weed turns purple, right? Yeah
So when weed turns purple some weed turns red
And you're like, oh it's purple or or it turns black and you're like, oh it's purple, right?
Because it's dark weed, yeah, but these turn like blue, you know
Like they turn like the color of like the top of my shirt if it's it's the lighting ain't worth shit in here
But it like turns blue
so
Almost like what's behind me honestly, so you get this you get this. Um
This blue color to them and that was the difference between the big blue and the big red
They were both I think probably related originally, but this dude on bell springs
Have bred them separately as far as I know and um
The big blue it does it gets that color to it like that and um
It just there's there there's something about that particular weed that was the best it was the best of what broadleaf afghani
California shit was where you smoke it you smell it in the air. It's got a spice. It's got an incense
and
It fucks you up like you smoke it and you're like i'm cool
I remember one time I had like I had these I had this uh
Big blue buds and I was at reggae on the river and I was sitting backstage at this picnic table
And I fucking crushed it up and I was sitting there and I was just rolling fatties and passing them rolling fatties and passing them
Rolling them and passing them
Every time like I would pass them around they'd come back around and I'd hit it. I'd hit it
I hit it and then we went up and we stood on the side of the stage
This was probably like 2004 to 2005 probably 2005
and
Maybe 2003 back then around then though
And I remember being up there and i'm trying to think of who was playing it was like junior kelly or
Somebody cool. I wane like one of those cool like cultural artists
But that like does a really good stage show and I remember standing there and being like
And i'm talking about this is when I was smoking like 10 pounds a year like you know what I mean
I don't smoke 10 pounds a year anymore, but I was standing up there and I was fucking
blazed going
Dude, I can't stand next to people right now
I need to go back to camp like I was fucked up as bad as if I was like
If I had eaten the hell of mushrooms or black pyramid gel or some shit
And I just kind of like threw in the towel and I left and I was like wow
Like we've got me this fucking high. I couldn't believe it
And that was that that was that big blue and that was the first time I realized like, okay
this is the indica that I really like and
I tried to keep it. I had a bunch of the seeds
And I bred it and it was this weird fucking plant where
There was a male link trait and I didn't know enough breeding at that time to really know
That every male you get of the strain is always weak looking
and
Even though it looks like shit when you breed it, it won't come out that way in the females
So what happened was I grew it and I grew it and I grew it and I was just waiting for a year
When I would get a male that didn't look like shit every male I would get was just tiny and shitty
and so
I ended up never making it pure. And so the closest thing I have at this point
Um, I have old seeds that if they could go to a lab
I have big blue cross black affee and I have big blue cross big red, but I don't have pure big blue
And one dude has pure big blue, but he's an old school fucking like gnarly kind of guy
and I like don't feel comfortable asking him for his seeds because
I feel like he'll probably think i'm just trying to like fucking monetize it which is not really the case because I just want the shit
but I have
um
These and when you grow a bunch of them you wind up with these fucking big blue throws and I like I said
Out of the ones I looked at and when I like that one that one and that one and I grew them
Boom, and I got it. I got a big blue black out back out of it. And then this year
I grew them and I got two males
out of probably
20 30 males i'd have to look but I think about that many definitely a bunch
But I got two that was like, okay boom there's the leaf and the leaf is like
this big
and the fingers
are literally
as big as from the tip of my thumb to the tip of my pinky
and that's how big one finger of a leaf is and the and and the leaflets are
you know what I mean like
fucking
Whoa
Way big like one leaf is as big as your whole torso
And um
They're just really neat fucking plants and it's in there. So it was one of those ones that I was like, yeah, I want to
I want to like spread it around see if people can isolate the big blue out of it
I'm trying to isolate the big blue out of it and it's not
The trick to it and i'll let people know before they wind up with the seeds is that the big blue has the leaf
Where all of the fingers spread out like rays, they're
Radiating
Right. So like they're not going this way
They're not
You know clumped together. They're like
Going out evenly and they don't curl down like this. They go straight out boom and they're flat
and they're um
Right on the on the place
Where all the fingers come together right there on the leaf stem
You get this color where it turns purple right there and it bleeds out into the fingers and the fingers have like this
This like big chunk of white on the top of them
and you can see it go out and
Um, that's like a marker for what the good big blue is because even in the big blue all of them didn't do that shit
so
Anyway, that's like the whole the whole thing and I have pictures from like 2003 2004 2005
Of these little plants and you look at them and you're like, man, they're little
They kind of like to mold
Um, they like to get pm, but that's what's cool is the big red didn't like to get pm
the og
Didn't like to get bud mold and it stretched further
So now in these seeds you have potential to get a big full-size big blue plant the current bit
It doesn't get pm. So that's what's cool about the the breed and that's why it's that's why I ended up
It ended up being special indica because it's all my favorites
And the best parts of them and you can find it but it still has to be taken in the direction
And that's what i'm working on
Right
And that's my story and i'm sticking to it it's almost like you were setting us up to auction something off
People are very moving. I mean I already did and I thought it was done and I guess they already went off
But like if we want to do it, I had a bag
That I took out of like a chunk I cut early to see how everything was doing on them
and um
And I was worried because it's on the special indica four number one
I was worried it was going to mold it started to look kind of tired at the top like it was
Like it eventually it was going to start to mold because that's what happens the stems get unhealthy
on these broad leaves and they start to kind of
You're like, okay
I can either let it go and it might mold or I can just go ahead and snip it off and it's done
And that's what people will tell you who grow deep chunk and things like this
Like you got to cut the top coal as early or you got to you got to um
Pinch or top the plants when they're pretty young so that you don't wind up with this big fucking apical marrow stem fucking
This giant thing you got to get in there
And get it gone. So you either
You and I and I didn't you either get in there and you make it kind of spread out a little bit get smaller buds
or you get this giant fucking bud and you got to cut it when it's like
15 days earlier than you would want to cut it, you know, and that's like a trick with those broad leaves
That's it goes for anything that's in that ballpark
so, um
You know like if we want to right now what I thought would be cool was instead last time we auctioned them off and they
wound up going
I think I put up 30. They wound up going for seven or eight hundred and
Then we said
Okay, um
Somebody twisted my arm and I said, all right, i'll do 100 instead of 30 because I was under pure pressure
I didn't want to do it
I did it
No, just kidding. So I turned it into 100. So what I figured was if it was 800 for 100, right?
It would be fair right now if we said
Because that's kind of a big that's like buying in bulk, right?
But I figured right now if we wanted to put it up and do some kind of a flash auction for people who want to get
these
We could do it like say
120 for a pack of seeds a pack being 10 or 12 seeds
And then be like, okay
the first
People and it's going to have to be after I say go because people are going to do it already right now, right?
But after I say go in the comments because i'll type it in here because I got my fucking phone, um
Then we can do it like the first
the first
Seven people
to say claim
Right can get a pack of them for 120 bucks if they want them
And if we don't go if it if they're not if they're not seven people who want them then two or three people will get
But everybody can get a pack
for 120
Which will be like what would be
Probably a wholesale arm if they ever were released
And and these aren't something that's been grown for before we get if we we're gonna we're gonna do it. We're doing it
We're gonna do this shit
but
This hasn't been grown indoors
This is old school 80s california
Shit that was grown outdoor
the original story on the big blue was some friends of mine who were very old school who were like old school environmentalists back in
the day and and were like
like monkey ranchers on the earth first shit and like
Like these and they grew these gorilla fucking gardens, right?
They asked this dude because everybody told him this dude was like he he kept a
Stash of all these different strains. They said hey
We want a strain that we can grow under the trees in the shade and get a pound
per plant and when they said it they were fucking joking because
If you could get six to eight ounces off of a plant you have like a miracle strain
I'm, not talking about like and you're hoping that you can get like a half pound
Or something like that and he was like, oh sure
Here you go and he gave it to them and they were like holy shit in the shade this stuff will do close to a pound
And that's what that
was
It's not coming from from from like being bred in amsterdam and indoor rooms for generations and shit
So, I don't know how it does indoor might herm out like a motherfucker
but
When you grow it outdoors, you'll get some neat shit out of them
And i'm not even saying that you'll get everything really cool out of them
There's no real guarantees
of what you're actually gonna get but the only thing that's guaranteed is that it'll be a mix of like old 80s style
afghani
fat bud big
fucking
Baseball buds on some some of them with smaller buds like og
and um
Some color some different shit and something that you're you're really not going to get out of other stuff and for sure
you can take mails out of these things and put them on something like um,
like diesel or
Og or any of that kind of stuff and I have something that'll be like
it'll be like um
Modern hybrids that you see that are like holy shit. That's bomb like it'll have that kind of uh
You know like I just grew out some macchiato gelato and I was like, oh this is kind of in the ballpark
I crossed that too. Um after this we could probably put up a pack of that too, but um
for now
Right now, let's see if there's seven people
Who want to get?
um
a pack of this shit
and
I will go on here and once the my comment pops up
Comment pops up that says no you guys are trying to claim everybody who said claim
Claim it looks like we're digging clams out here
Here we go so right here we're gonna say uh
After this
First
How about cacao as the new word what's that yeah, you can pick a different
All right after this first seven to say
As my buddy from bamboo saint ann's jamaica would say first seven to say sprech out
Okay
Everyone's saying claim good god. Wait that just blew first seven to say
This is 126 don't drink it without a chaser. Oh shit
There's definitely seven
Okay, so a lot of people said claim i'm trying to find that that was holy shit zaza. Okay, so this was the first
Jesus
So that's there are a lot of comments right now. Hold on. I just blew past
I'm trying to find the first seven. Okay, so gorilla
vinny
robbery
Zen spring
Ian
only facts
Copied often. I don't know if we've hit seven but dylan
Alexander top floor. Okay, we probably hit seven by then. So
So I really like 126 proof jamaican rum
Some people don't like it. I didn't know I liked it really until maybe a couple minutes ago
This shit's hella fun, so let's do
Instead of seven let's do
70 no, you can't mail it. If someone else was handling my shit
I would totally do that. But the reality is that's a lot of stuff. Let's do a dozen
Well, we could we could turn we could I could
throw this on like the e-commerce site and then people just pay and
Then we have like they fill in their shipping address and
I don't I don't want to be the guy with the email
I don't I don't want to be the guy with that list of of addresses and shit like that
I'll just be up front about that. No, not me, but
We can figure something out for now
Let's do a dozen
I'll put a dozen of them together. So the first dozen that you see get me that information and
After this on whatever site you're talking about we'll go ahead and put up some more it won't be a whole lot of them
But maybe another
20 or something
You do that
I think man, man. You will is number 12 then did you count it out?
Okay, so this is the last one
Yeah, okay so
Someone who's not me is gonna remember the 12 people who
Yeah, somebody give me the list of the 12 names and then what i'll do peter is i'll go ahead and get you or
um
Or dutch blooms or whoever wants to handle doing some more of them
And we'll go ahead and put them up because I I already told uh,
I already told adam that I was gonna put some stuff up and i'm down to put
um some of these up and I feel like
Just from the early thing that I already pulled off I had a bunch and I know I know I have a bunch of these
so
um
I'm down to have this be one of the things I I put in
People are looking for me because i've been on here for four hours
Like family or just
Yeah, those those are the people that are talking about for sure
My wife's already asleep. So
Yeah, mine doesn't ever go to sleep it's weird your sleeps does she want to make a cameo
Uh, I have a son I I doubt he's asleep right now he doesn't sleep till I till I till i'm there pretty much
But he's older, right?
Yeah, it's uh, it's it's horrible, bro
Not really, it's all good. It's just yeah, you see it's like if I don't check in then he's like
Where's dad?
It's a cool thing
So peter if you can see the chat I listed all 12 there
In uh
In the in the youtube
Okay, cool, all right, let me take a screenshot of that so we
That is strong work
Um
I'm hoping it's not me who has to deal with this all tomorrow, but
And trevor is standing by
To take those orders for the 12 people. I know that might be a pain in the butt, but it was a
I figured it was okay. So actually all of the people
There
Send an email
All right, so those people
Wait, robert stuber. That's one of our
Are you allowed
All right, is this insider trading we'll give it to you
Okay, so send
An email there. Oh my god. Oh, he's not he's
You're famous
You're youtube famous
Uh, all right las vegas, uh
Feels like they got skipped
Oh, man
Anyway, we we hopefully we have a volunteer who will re-watch this entire four hour conversation
If you gotta third go 13 go 13 if you gotta go 15 go 15, we'll just make sure it's fair
Uh, yeah donate at daggett out. Love. Yes
I
Just don't want to sit putting together boxes forever. It's not what I do. I'm not a seed shipper
I'm a flake who only is good at crushing seeds like this smelling them taking notes the whole
All that other shit. No
I don't do it
Okay, so so did you have something else that you wanted to throw up
Um, if we want we could do we could do one 20
120 piece pack
of the
macchiato
Um
crossed with that ghost og special indica for
mail
So that's like the same thing but crossed with the macchiato gelato and the macchiato gelato I have
Um, my friend went through a whole bunch of different cuts
To find the one that was the real one that was actually being produced
and it's kind of like
Coffee skunk
um
I don't even like to say skunk anymore because everybody's like is it real roadkill skunk?
He's like, yeah, it's skunky, but it stinks up the house. It smells like coffee and garlic
um
Real skunks to me smell like burnt garlic and onions and coffee and
um
To me, it's bomb. It's like
real
Rock hard no leaf purple bud
um
And it's really pretty it's got a good potency
It's macchiato. I don't know if people have heard of it or not
But like I hadn't heard of it my buddy showed me a jar and I was like, that's cool
I'll take the clones and I grew them and then I was like
that's
pretty fucking fire like if
All the stuff that's gelato and cookies and all that shit. It's like people look at it and they go
Oh, this is supposed to be the hottest weed in the world. This ain't shit
But i'm like, yeah, but if somebody handed it to you and they were like, hey, dude, this is a land race afghani
I just scored it and but and they grew it they'd be like that was some fucking shit, you know
So like to me I judge shit
On its own merits. I don't judge it on like well, they said it's an 11 and I think it's a 9.5
I'm, like fuck. I think it's a 9.5, you know, I don't care if people hyped it or not. So to me, it's some
fucking bomb bud
Um, it's a cool plant it gets it's really hard. You almost don't have to trim the shit
It gets solid dark purple when it's done. It smells like coffee garlic earth
Skunk
and um
I don't know what it really is. I just know I got it. It was called macchiato
Supposedly, it's a gelato cut. I hit it with the same shit. I was talking about before with the ghost in it
And i'm doing a 20 20 seed pack of it
Right now so that's um, that's a macchiato cross with a ghost og macchiato cross ghost
special indica pour
Yeah
So not ghost og just ghost
How am I titling this
It's macchiato cross
Parentheses ghost cross special indica for
Parentheses
Like that
Yep
That's the one buddy
Top floor genetics wants to know how exotic is it
If you believe in
if you believe
in exotic
I don't have auto-tune so I can't sing like sherr
But if you believe in exotic afterlife
Um or exotic after love I guess you would say
I don't know. I don't listen to a lot of share but shit is zaza
Zaza so was this bid related to this or was this
I don't know. I don't make the bids man
All right
Cameron's snell tell me if that was for this or for
Uh, chris, sorry, chris chen has already passed that so who cares?
Um also I I got these clones I had I think with this particular one, I think I had four that were about
These fucking cameras man, it's like talking in a mirror
They were only like this big
And I had I had them I got them really late in the year. I think I got little clones that were like this
That's easier
um, I got clones that were like this probably
In the very end of july or the beginning of august so they were about to flower so they only grew a little bit
And so I don't have a lot of these. I don't have enough that I I really don't think they'll probably be released
It'll be something that I work on. I'll probably make like a macchiato bat cross
I did a macchiato jarro, and I did a macchiato ghost special indica four
and so
Anybody who gets these now?
Now this is something that you're getting that it's not going to be a release
It'll take me another
It'll take me a whole other season to be able to have anything that's ready to be released
And when it's ready to be released, it'll be an f2
Or and I don't really like to release f2s because f2s are all over the place
I release usually either f1 or f3 or f4
so
or backcross
So this isn't one that i'm going to be able to put out so this is that um
Zaza you have to say zaza if you don't say zaza. It's a hundred dollar pack you say a zaza
You got a good thousand dollar pack there it goes zaza
zaza
zaza
But it really is I mean as far as when I say like if you believe in zaza
I mean like if if you think
Runts gelato cookies all these different things are what you call exotic
um
It is what it is and I know the whole thing of like well
It's not like I said earlier that cashmere with the little skinny buds with the big resin heads that fiato is
It is that shit. It is like
You're gonna look at it and go. Oh fuck. Okay
This is gonna be
This is gonna hit you know
and
These are ones I haven't you know, like I said, I made them
I don't know what the fuck they are. I just know it's macchiato across this
um ghost special indica, so
You know, it is what it is. It's bomb and oh shit. Chris jennings was just tops
I think in the future we just need to skip everything else and just have you auction shit off and we'll raise like
20 30 40 thousand dollars
I only have so much that i'm gonna put up though. That's the reason why I wait, you know, because I don't it's it would be different if
If people already had it, but I I don't I only have so much time to really
Put into like I said to go ahead and go. Okay at this point right now
I'm gonna be putting together like, you know, 15 boxes or something and it's not
I not that's not my routine. It's not my
It's not my job
But if you were if you were truly mother teresa like you would dedicate your life to raise money for
I would have a soup kitchen and a seed bank and it would be all I did
And I believe that that's the right thing to do. But I also know about focus
And what focusing costs you and it's hard to put focus into things that distract you from
The things you need to do to survive
and so I try to put some over here and some over there and keep my shit together and um,
If I was more mentally stable, I could do all this shit
But when you're drinking over proof or i'm on the internet, it's just not
It doesn't all work out, you know
so
Yeah, and anytime someone bids they have to say zaza
You have to say zaza. Yeah, if you don't so line where line works genetics if you can repeat that with zaza
1500
Please say zaza. I'll be right back
Okay
So good and mike spangler wants to downshift back to 120 bucks
That's still open at 15, all right, so line works, but i'd really like to see a zaza 1500
Oh, he did junior is offended. Oh 15 25
That's a valid bid right there
Okay, no till army
Uh
Where'd you send the email up cameron sell you didn't say zaza though not gonna count
I'm gonna say zaza 1500
Yeah, so i was asking if I have anything else I was actually thinking about doing the um
st. Ashley mazar
Which is a uh
mazar black dog cross, uh, it was the black dog dc6
and then um
mazari that uh
I got from indian land race seed exchange super nice beautiful
Large dark reptilian leaves what jackson was talking about kind of reminded me of kind of some of the structure of some of the mazar
And that crossed on the black dog. They like they came out so pretty this year very very dark very
Beautiful
black
and
funky
smells gorgeous flowers, but those were actually grown out of um,
the grave of my uh dog who passed away last year, um
because um
Yeah, it just it made sense to plant the black dog dc6
pollinated with mazar
over her and um, yeah
There's a story about it on the podcast if anyone, uh ever checks out the interview I did on the podcast
There's a to go into it on that
But anyway, they're really special seeds and i'm not letting them out like any other way except to like close friends and stuff
or for options like these so
um
Yeah, um, I was gonna do a 12 pack of those and after this
Okay, so currently we're at uh
1650
Let's talk some that garden of greece did too that was so beautiful really really black
Jackson I was just thinking like you drink too much. You're making rum and you end up uh,
Raising a bunch of money for charity. It's not the worst
Cut the next party like damn I gotta raise the whole bunch of money
It's it's really now. I gotta go to the post office and take the opposite effect
Most people it's ruining so many lives man. This is so dangerous. I just hope that
we can really uh
All stand together against the zaza and stop people from getting assistance
They need to just lift themselves up by the bootstraps
Zaza 1700 wow, uh, shonald, okay
Good god, let me
No shonald jake
J won the
Thug pug pbb
The truth is though jesse that
I have an interesting genetic makeup that makes it impossible for me to actually get drunk
I only cop a buzz and then eventually my body shuts down and I throw up on a telephone pole in my shoes or something
I just fall asleep. Yeah, I don't I I have like a shut off switch. So i'm welsh
um
Irish scottish german italian and native american. Oh, so like alcohol for me is just this like
cruise ship into
The iceberg, you know, and then when I hit the iceberg it's over but until then
I don't know, you know, like nothing ever nothing ever changes. I I just loosen up a little bit. So
Yeah, and I I i'm a chill drunk like uh
My sister
Gets boisterous then she gets belligerent
my brother get or one of my brothers gets like he just like
He just like goes and then just like falls asleep like like falling asleep is his jam when he drinks
And uh, and then me and my other brother are more like
Like
We're drunk. We're happy like life is good and then like eventually I fall asleep, but
Yeah, I just lose inhibition when I when I drink it's like a window into
Who I really am and then
I get sick
And that's like that's like all it does. It's the same like when I do hallucinogenics people are like dude, didn't you eat anything?
I'm, like yeah
i'm fucking frying balls dude, and they're like, uh
You didn't eat nothing. I'm like, yeah, i'm higher than a fucking kite dude
and then
Eventually, you know, we realize yeah. Okay. We're all high
but
Yeah, I have that weird weird switch it's like uh, it's like a
I go and then I fail that's pretty much how it works
So some funk asked peter, can you please ask if it was 15 for the 120 120 what
The the 120 pack
Like the one where like 10 different people won or what? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
Okay
I want to know how many people won that one
Matthew riot seed co
You we sent you an invite you still haven't come on
That's because that's just a masonic account
That's what I was saying all those ones you see they're all masonic
They're all masonic
Was not in the chat tonight. You had masonic masonic and masonic
Yeah, masonic's like yeah I embedded I like all the strains that riot did masonic's like yeah, I did those strains
That's just he's he's just he's just
Trolling he's just trolling. He's trolling. He's been a troll. He's still a troll
Still the same old troll, you know
All right, cameron snell
It was really cool for him to put some stuff up to auction
Yeah, I mean anybody that put something up, you know, i've had people over the years be like, oh you listed so and so shit
i'm, like well
If anybody wants to list some shit, I I don't really care, you know
Like I used to when I was doing auctions people would hit me up and go dude you can't put their shit up
I'm, like they're giving it away and it's gonna help somebody out. I'm not gonna stop that. I don't give a shit
It's you know, uh
It's just whatever if it's if it's if it's to help somebody it's to help somebody
All that troll shit. I don't know about that. I can't call it
But
You know, I mean I I certainly am not gonna go online and change my
start an account and change it to masonic seeds and say i'm a sonic smoker, but
you know
It's a free country, I guess to each his own
uh
So cameron
Thank you because everyone's thinking about your meme gene talking back and forth to yourself too
Yeah, no, I don't I don't have fake accounts meme gene is really a different person yes and and uh,
Definitely way a much more spelt character than I am now. Did you watch a lot of wrestling in the 80s?
I didn't watch that much but it was kind of one of those things that you couldn't get away from
I don't know anybody who's an 80s baby who doesn't know about andre the giant
uh
rowdy rowdy piper
hulk hogan mean gene
I honestly
Didn't really know who mean gene was until years after I already had the nickname mean gene
right and
The nickname mean gene that I had came from I think us reading about
gene transfer in marijuana botany
and my buddy
og foundation farms c money super c was like
uh
He was like, hey, you know, come on gene boy
And we had a friend named john boy when we were little kids that moved away
And it's kind of a tradition in in in native american
um culture
Instead of saying junior to add boy to the end of something
So his dad was john senior and he was john boy
And he moved away maybe in sixth grade or something seventh grade
and
So it's kind of like a joke
My buddy was like hey, come on gene boy instead of john boy
And we like laughed we were hella stoned and we would get fucking ripped in the 90s when we were young
Hadn't smoked that much dope and we had a really
Hardcore potent shit. So I would like smoke it when I went to visit him
And they would like take me to their gorilla gardens
And I would go and come back and I would be like I have no fucking idea where we went
Like I like it was like blackout stoned, you know
We would get back and i'd be like, I don't know where the fuck we are
And that but that was where I wound up with the name
Gene, and then our friend j paul
Would call me mean gene and I don't remember anybody before that j paul maybe tk
Would call me
Mean gene just because it fucking rhymed with gene
and um
Then mean gene like kind of stuck and then when I needed an alias, I was like well, what's?
What's something I can call myself without people knowing my name because you have to have an alias back in the day
Like I used to introduce myself as gene
Because I didn't want to give people my real name because if you had weed in your pocket and people knew your real name
That could be a bad thing as crazy as it sounds these days
but like so I started calling myself gene and then when I
In when I when I entered shit into the emerald cup, I entered it as mean gene for mendocino and then that's how
The name stuck and that's the the goofball shit of that name, you know
but but it was more like genetics versus like
Mean gene the wwf
It had absolutely nothing to do with wwf. It only had to do with the fact that we had been reading marijuana botany a lot
And my buddy just kind of inserted gene instead of instead of jack
And then all said and done the funny thing is it is that that means the same thing like gene and jack
And jackson and john are all the same name
So it was a funny coincidence, but it wound up that I wound up with a different name of a different version of my same
name
and
Um, it had nothing to do with the wwf and I didn't really know that much about that
um
so it really it really had nothing to do with that, but it's super funny and like i've
thought about at certain times of like getting the tux and slicking my hair back and shit to do like
You know grudge matches or some shit between people because I could just hold the mic and be like, yeah, you talk shit
You talk shit. It's a whole idea for a podcast or something, you know
So by the way is cameron snell still
Our leader that looks like the high
Yeah, he won't know should we call it because I gotta go pee yeah call it dude. All right
So
By the way, trevor, are you still there? Did we lose trevor?
Who's supposed to be diligently?
Uh, let's see if trevor updates the spreadsheet
She
I think it starts with saint ashley mazar
All right, so you want to go
Jesse yeah, the um, uh, trevor is still awake. He just texted me
Okay
So trevor, it looks like cameron snell won
And uh, jesse take it away and i'll deal with cameron
in the chat
Cool yeah, so i'm just going to put up the saint ashley's mazar. It's the black dog bc6 pollinated with the
the mazar mazari sharif
um, which
um, I had actually planted over my dog's grave to
develop the seeds out of
and
And every one this year came out like really really gorgeous beautiful dark reptilian leaves
Um garden degrees did a really beautiful job with it, too
but yeah, love the smell very original very
Intense, um, yeah just reptilian very strong in the humid weather, too
It reminded me of like some of the stuff you were describing from the special indica's
But like the really long long lead
what
Was interesting too is I didn't know it at the time. But um when I told depak from um, indian landry seed exchange
about
well, actually putting a mazar leaf on our dog's grave before
burying her but also
planting the black dog, uh above her he was like
Well, you know what mazar means and I was like no, um, he's like mazar means grave
And mazari sharif is great with the same
um, and you know, my dog actually was definitely yeah, she was a saint and um,
Yeah, it was just really cool to have the
the combination of those together, um
The soil the love of my dog the
The black dog vc6 which was really really nice. And then those mazars are incredibly strong and beautiful. Um,
Yeah, so it was really cool project to do
and
It will be cool to see what somebody else does with them
Did you grow any of the mazar jackson
I did not but um
in
1984
1984
um
My family got some seeds that were
labeled as mazari
and
um
My mom always talked about those
As being like the best plants that they ever saw kind of
um, they grew them in like a creek bed
Off to the side of the creek like up against the the wall of the valley kind of but it was still sand
And they put them in that sandy soil and they didn't think that they would really do well there
But they were amazed at how well they grew in the sand and i'm sure the sand is like really of course
Silica rich and there was probably a lot of silk
There because it was kind of a slow moving creek. It was out in woodman canyon and uh
um
They said
that like the the buds were just like it was just such nice weed and it was just like the best
the best thing to grow
and then
um
They bred it a few times
uh
And after it got bred two or three times
At one point they picked probably a bad male and possibly a bad female
A lot of people don't know about the way people used to breed stuff
Was they didn't really understand about genetics very well
and so what they would do is they would they would take and this is really commonplace, it's not just them but
You would grow the plants that look that were the really nice starts
and
And grow them for production and then the plants that weren't quite as nice
You'd go. Okay, cool. We'll use these for seeds
And that's really not what you want to do in a breeding program
It'd be better to grow
The plants that aren't as nice just to grow weed because the seed is where the real value is because that's your future
And so what happened was people wound up breeding
um
these plants that were kind of the ones that were like the the ones that weren't quite as vigorous or branchy or whatever and then
After a few years they would be like, yeah, the seed's not that good and that led to the myth of people thinking that you needed to
hybridize
things
So they would be like, yeah, we had this and it was good
But then at a certain point it wasn't that good
But then we crossed it with this other thing and then it was good again
So then they start to think that over the years we need to keep taking this and cross it with new blood
that new blood will revitalize it and really
All they're all they're getting is this hybrid vigor
And not actually selecting for the best genetics from each gene pool
So what happened is they inbred the what they called the mazari
um
It ended up
Becoming what they called lettuce weed or cabbage weed and it just kind of
big thick leaves with a lot of resin
But almost impossible to trim and in those days they weren't growing weed in the full sun
So in the full sun, it might have been more substantial
but everything was kind of more like down in these little canyons and stashed away and so
um
they
What happened was there they they went from having the best thing they'd ever seen to something that wasn't even really a practical
um
thing to grow
but
It always made me really interested in stuff. Um, that was mazar because
this uh
mazari was like
The the thing that they always talked about like, oh, yeah, that was that year
84 85 and that was also right when camp came in and started to bust everybody
so
It was kind of like everything had gone from like like
my mom's boyfriend george
He had grown from like 76 or 77
And then he had grown grown grown grown grown weed and then all of a sudden was like 83 84
Something like that 85. I think 84 probably he ended up getting the mazar and he was like
That was the year that we really had plants that were like those were incredible plants
Anybody who's grown a lot of things knows when you get something that really works for you. It's the shit
And it changes everything and that was like that and then it was like that that year and the next year
And maybe the next year and then all of a sudden it was like
And then it wasn't a thing
anymore and then it moved on to the stuff that wound up being what was in the
What we ended up calling the oil can or the pog
Which was a different afghani
as far as I know
I crossed with the oaxacan and then that was like because it was a hybrid it was big it had big buds
They were dense. It was nice and potent and all that
and um, that was like the wave, but but anyway, that was that's my
The mazari was like legendary in woodman canyon in the early 80s
And then it's trippy because people are like, oh all the old land race. They don't exist anymore
But then you have guys like deepak who goes to
Those regions and he's like dude. I don't I talk to him
He's like I don't like people say they are and I feel like it's almost a myth spread
by
People who have seed banks and shit who are like, oh, you can't really get the original shit
Our our shit's the best. It's all it's the best you can get but in reality people go to these other areas and they're like, uh
This is still afghani. It's just not refined
So you get it and you refine it like you're doing and I think you can probably bring back those those more legendary
Early shit, it's not that long ago in terms of biology. It's fucking quick, you know
But anyway, that's a long but
Yeah, well, I hope you grow some of them this year like the cross was so pretty it just it just seemed old and just
funky and just so
strong early
um
I'll have to i'll send over some pictures and stuff
Yeah, I want to check them out
What's cool too? I want to see your pictures because I can show them to my mom and show them to george
and see like if they're like, oh that's similar or if they're like, ah, that's different because they
To them it was like it had an impact so they'll they'll remember if it's the same or if it's different
It'll be cool to kind of see you know, what what that uh,
What that adds up to?
It looks like asham
Akers picked up
That pack and trevor
Let's see some data entry up there goes trevor. Oh my god trevor i'm watching real time as trevor
That's asham acres 380
All right, we want to do like one or two last
Seattle chronic bring the hype bring the energy
It's only one in the morning man
Yeah, it's only one right?
I didn't actually sleep last night either too. Yeah, you should have saved it for tonight. Don't sleep tonight
I know
Just double down right man. Just keep on trucking
Slow mouths wants to know where that roadkill skunk from the early 80s is
Nobody knows man able
That's a funny thing a guy on the internet said oh I got him from this guy and they're the real deal
They're amazing. Then they had a political disagreement and the dude who had him was like, oh, they're not that good
But i'm gonna sell them for fucking nothing because they were overpriced
I was like so the guy's seeds were shit. But now you're just gonna make more and now they're fucking great
kind of interesting
Strange I don't really know about that kind of uh line of logic, but you know, it doesn't sound like biology
I'm just gonna resell shitty seeds
Well, no, no, no now they're really good
Now that he's got them they're really good cheap. Yeah. Well, you know those selections you make that one selection
I mean, no, they're great. But now they're not great. But now they're great again, you know, so
that's uh
People just misunderstand. He's like no they really stink. No, they they actually stink like
No, they're real skunk
But I don't really like this guy. They're not real skunk, but I made some and the ones I made
They're really fucking good. I mean, I don't know if you guys have seen them
But I don't really like this guy they're not real skunk but I made some and the ones I made
They're really fucking good and they cost a lot less. So keep that in mind
What's going up next
I did I don't have I don't have anything that I say is real real roadkill skunk
I have something that skunk va smelled and said
The closest to the old super skunk that he had in the 90s that he smelled since the 90s
but he was still
Like yeah, it's in there somewhere but wasn't like that's that's it right there, you know, so I can't say like oh, that's
the old real skunk to me it smells like a skunk like
it has all those things in it, but then
I can't say that the seed that I have
Is gonna do exactly that?
um
But I mean I to me like i'm like, okay, there's the coffee. There's the burnt garlic. There's the onion. There's the
Rubber, there's the things that make you think you know wet dog that when you smell an actual dead skunk you go
Okay, there's the there's those things
but um
You know, i'm not i'm not gonna say
that
Um, it's really that exact thing
But I I remember back in the day like the skunkiest shit that I ever smelled
Was really skunky, but then it like smelled like pine trees or it was really skunky
But then it like had like the soy sauce hit to it or something like that. Um
But like burnt garlic burnt onions burnt rubber. That's like kind of to me when I smell the skunk coffee
Those things kind of add up to that. That's those afghani
Things but i'm not gonna try to sell you roadkill skunk. Everybody who's done that so far has uh
Swung and missed as far as i've seen. Yeah, it's been a big fail. Yeah
Our um, is there anything else did you want to put something up jesse? I got a box over here
I can look through real quick and see what?
What I got
Yeah, we that one's done
It was one more
Here, let me see real quick
Let me see what's in the goodie bag
Do
I could have I'll put up a p-funk black dog
uh, so it's like the p-funk is
It's this girl scout 830 selection from 2012
with atomic kush
That hit with sour bubble and then
um
Then that
Selection from that, uh from a few years ago ended up making a really nice clone selection of that
And then hit that up with uh, the black dog
bc5 f2 as well
um
And those come out with really bright. Um
Pineapple with gas and and fruit behind it too
But and then it has that sour bubble that kind of atomic candy the sour candy that burns your nose
Um, so it's like yeah sour candy pineapple
gas and fruit
What are the flower times on that one, oh, they're really early they finished yeah first like
Sometimes maybe the end of september pretty much first week of october. Yeah
What's on that atomic kush that's something i'm gonna look up actually I haven't even
Yeah, that's the old one, um
Um
God what went into that it was a really sweet really consistent one friend ryan
A bunch of those seeds and just yeah just
Solid every single one was like this kind of sweet cushy
Nice perfect plant. It was really good for strength and consistency
Um, but then the sour bubble is what brings that like super bright nose to it and then it's also like got a lot of color
um
I definitely have some good pictures of it from this year, but I didn't send them over to peter
I'm sure from everything i've seen they're phenomenal
Are they on instagram
um, you know
I don't know if I actually I yeah, no, I don't think so
I've been meaning to post about some of those I can send a picture though
Oh, I know how that goes trust me
I mean, you know just just it's a different place now i'm not posting is like kind of
It's a different world. Yeah, I know I completely agree
It used to be more fun to like share all the stuff. Yeah. Yeah
Yeah
Yeah, I agree. That's why I haven't been sharing as much content recently
It's just that it's kind of taken away from I think the spirit of as to why we kind of got behind
creating these things and
yeah, yeah, and then like
You know, like your content is used to steal people's attention to sell advertisement, you know, it's like yeah
it's like do I want to put all this work into like
Like beautiful pictures and good information, but I still do you know, it's
just
Things be different
Keep waiting for that perfect can of app or you know a platform that somebody designs a free speech and that everybody can yeah
It's never gonna happen
Keith dean asked uh
Bag seed origins
What greatest strain ever with bag seed origins
And my brain doesn't work right now enough to even think about that unfortunately
So we're at 200
Okay, hold on
How many seeds on this one? So hold on let let's not let let's not end the countdown because i'm gonna show a picture
But give me one second
To cue it up
Up another picture
All right, we have two pictures
Are there more or is it just two
Did you get to smell any of those that's the new comes
We're already at 280
Yeah, it's a little bit of a
Yeah, the it's one of the brightest aromas of the year for me too like just really intense
the sour bubble like craziness that's with it, it's
Sour pineapple and then yeah sour candy
Oh another one, hold on
Masonic or matt ryan asked what the lineage is
Oh, I just told I just went through it
It's too late
You tell it again girl scout 830 selection from 2012 with um, the atomic kush
And then sour bubble on that
And then the selection from that group, uh put a black dog vc. Um,
five at two on two
A lot of work in there
Yeah a lot of like
Yeah, all the little things that happen over all those years for like certain plants to be it's all very strange
He said these ones were 20 seat packs as well, yeah, this will be 20 seat packs. Yeah
Clarifying that
Uh, no till army I see your ig dm
Uh comment although I don't see the ig dm
Oh shit
Uh skywalker ogs in there too. I just I forgot. Yeah, it was the uh skywalkers that were bubble but put on that
That definitely adds some beauty to it
I know nick found some medicine in skywalkers lineage. So I mean does it wash well
I mean does it wash well
No, it's not for washing. It's like way too turpy and greasy for washing. Um, but it would yield high and um,
Live resin, uh, it's for flowers. It's insane
Oh, yeah, check out the beach
2020
Uh, all right, no, it's all the limerilla should arrive any day
So if it hasn't arrived by today, maybe tomorrow or the next day, but obviously if not just shoot me an email
But is it cross the wilson yet
It will be
Um, somebody asked about the sour bubble and then somebody also mentioned bog, you know
Obviously sour bubble comes from bog
It's not like the some of those are a little like more of a bubble gum with the bog. This is um
With the bog, this is um, this particular one is this super sharp and sharp sour
Okay, so we're at 360
Eugene archibald
Cool
Eugene's walking away with him
Has anything tonight not been a steal
um
I guess not
What did we get on that last one though 2100 or
Yep
Yeah, cameron snell
We won zaza 21
I barely got it
I don't have enough to release
That's all right packs, okay, so eugene archibald, I feel like you know the drill by now because
I swear you've won stuff. Yes earlier on
It's not special
All right, so eugene archibald
Well
All right, you guys want to do one or two last packs or what uh
One one out of juice myself
One more zaza
Fucking zaza
Snuck its way into the whole fucking deal now. It's just rooted in
Fucking zaza
um
Well
Let's see 240 in the chat that's up when we get like 165 at one point or something maybe it's 265
I don't know
But there's still a whole bunch of people here
What is?
The real zaza people are looking for what what should I put up?
What's the zaza?
You guys feed feed in feed into the matrix here
Interactive I gotta pop over and see what people are saying the whole point of the internet
Black lime reserve what about like black lime reserve?
cross
I have something from a guy who took black lime reserve
And he hit it with various males
And appropriately dubbed the cross black lime
bukkake
I have no idea what bukkake means, but he literally calls this shit
Me guessing it was it was uh several males
Uh, yeah, he said it was several males. I I didn't really
Know he was kidding
But uh, I have a bunch of those. Um
Maybe we can do those next week
But i'm trying to see what people think all right grape soda skunk
Uh nubia
Those mandarin, uh
Lines those were crazy
Which one the mandarin lime one crosses that you you gave me last year? Oh, okay. Yeah, those are bomb americot like
super freaking chemical cleaner like
Yeah
Not chemical but like, you know, like the the citrus cleaner, okay trip. They're good. Yeah
Intense, uh grape soda skunks come up a couple times
Banana ruts riot sonic
No, uh grape soda skunk limeade
Grapefruit
And there's a bunch of shit popping up root beer what the fuck is root beer
Everybody keeps talking about this shit called root beer. I've never heard of it
There is no root beer
Root beer coca-cola
Root beer limerilla
Straight root beer no such thing that cherry lime stuff
Cherry lime root beer root beer is a myth. I'm reading this as it's popping up here
Cherry west coca-cola
Tropicana cookies
Tropicana cookies, you know fuck with that. I know
Skycuddler cherry west I got cherry west cross sky cover double kush. I got
grape lime
Back cross sky cuddler. I'm popping it up
Um
All right
I'm not sure what I'm doing here
I'm not sure what I'm doing here. I'm not sure what I'm doing here
Um
All right
Grape limes popped up quite a few times
I have
grape lime
the clone
That was what skunk va said was the closest to the super skunk he smelled since the 90s
Maybe i'm just making that up, you know, I just make this shit up get drunk on the internet and fucking make up stories
That's what people do now, right?
Say it's your strain
Fucking make a new fucking shit
Um
And I took that and I bred it with the males that were the closest to it
Two males that were complete twins that looked just like that skunk that smelled like it
And I put it
Back on it meaning it's a back cross
Well first I made it I took the two and I made the
F2 then out of the f2
I took my favorite male out of it
And then I called the triple crown male which was kind of a coincidence just because I stuck three tags in it
So I know which fucking one it was
And then I put that back on it. So it's a back cross to that skunkiest one
So let's do no more beers top floor genetics
Um
Let's go
We got no chill riot
um
Let's do
Let's do like a 30 pack of the grape lime what I call grape lime skunk
Which is lime one cross grape soda skunk the original one that I found that made me interested in the line
I bred it
With two males that were exactly like it
And then I popped those seeds and I took the male that I liked the best out of that and I put it
Back onto it again. I haven't grown them out yet
but
It's pretty likely out of 30 that you'll find one. That's pretty stinky and pretty nice
Let's go ahead and put one of those up. Dave's not here has already been
How many seeds oh maybe uh 30
Oh, wow
Damn it's getting better bigger
Whoa
That escalates dude this escalating he says I remember my first f2 I remember my first f2 as well
uh
It's not an f2. You just back crossed it too. It was an f2 and then a back cross. Yeah
Slow mouths, I bred 21 males and just in the debt run this year. I bred another
I don't know 12 males later on
Cats out here got two males three males
That's okay
Talk to me about it f2
Did you finish that run
No, no. No, I just barely dipped into it, dude
Barely did it's just the neck pass it over the neck neck to the neck the neck to the neck. It's just a neck f2
Slow melts, it's a go fund me
Which I assume is credit card hey
So quick
To be clear you only need one male
So is anyone need out 21 males?
Just because i'm dumb doesn't mean everybody else has to do it
There's a 2k
Oh shit, I didn't see that
Right above no zaza
This didn't do this did good we might want to do another thing, huh? Thanks eugene
2020 from s 2020. That's our terrible bid
I'm not sure if I'm gonna be able to do it
I'm not sure if I'm gonna be able to do it
2020 that's a terrible bid
This is one case where we should let the one dollar bid happen
I love 2020 honestly, but I like 666 too
Well 700 one on that one didn't it
Yeah, it did go up, but if you're into numerology
You see 666 equals 9 which is actually the god number which is kind of interesting
You got to wonder if they flipped it on yet
the democrats
I mean the democrats maybe the republicans
I gotta say we heard it here first
Yeah
Oh, no, it's gonna stop at 2020, isn't it?
Fuck
You can't do that the pack's fucked. Yeah, don't don't plant that i'm gonna jump off nobody gets their seats
Just kidding 2020 is great. What's 200? Is it supposed to be?
22
No, 2020 25
Uh
Wow
Take a deep breath fellas. Oh, that's why it is 4100 from chris jennings
Whoo, the matrix is intact
We were almost dismantled fellas
Uh, can you repeat what the pack is for lindsay who made top?
2100
Fuck I have no idea. You guys don't remember
No, it was grape lime skunk clone
crossed with grape lime skunk f2, it's a fat cross
Triple crown and trevor I see you diligently data entering
Don't think I don't notice and appreciate your hard work behind the scenes
Is
Chris is calling it the zaza juice. He knows what's up
And it's 21
It smells but it also
Bugs don't like it. It doesn't get mold
Pm won't grow on it. It doesn't need a cage doesn't need a stick to hold it up
And the buds are about on the on the mom. They're about this big and they're about
I mean the my screen doesn't work. They're like, you know, they're
They're like this long
20 huge colas really cool. I got some pictures. My lens on my own phone is broken
So I have to send them from the other phone
To be able to post them, but i'll post them you can see the plants like you pull it over and it goes
Whereas like if it was like some kush or some shit og or something you'd pull it over and it'd be like
Oh, you fucked up, but this is just
That super cool super cool plants do they have the purple fox on like
the other grape soda skunk says
Say it again. Oh, I I did some of the grape soda skunk lime one super purple stock really really sturdy
Strong like dark cool looking plants
yeah, they like do really good in places where there's a lot of wind or
If you want to grow something and you don't want to have to like put up like a lot of my stuff you put up
A cage and then it gets bigger you have to put up more and more you have to have like two or three
Trellising's on it because when you have a lot of the cushion it
Or lime or whatever it's it's just like the stems aren't that big but this is one of those ones
Because of the grape that's just this really sturdy gnarly
um afghani
Thing so it's just like the buds are just like
you know
like you get and they really like um
I had a few of them this year that were I have a video i'll post it when I can but they just
They like you
Like I fucked off the clones and they didn't look like they were gonna do that good
And then when they finally budded it was just like okay, you guys really are about budding. They really get like the nice
big buds that are just like
Super super gnarly and it's real sturdy. It doesn't like to get the the mildew or mold or bugs or
Do bad when the weather gets cold in the freeze like people grew the lime grape f2s
In colorado and they and they were killer, you know, um
Do you have an affordable pack for a lesser donation?
So the whole deal with that was the deal of shipping
So
Um
Future cannabis project peter is saying yes, there was the testa rosas
Which I think are like a skittles royal and I saw that crossed with a lime pop five. Somebody gave me a jar
And it had the smell of the testa rosa and it was jumping out and this looks like this is kind of similar to what?
That was
These are up and these are affordable. You can go there
um
Donate and get a pack of these and this is something coming from the black lime reserve skittles royal
G 13
Those will be super cool. Um
I already did the one I did what we did a dozen packs for
120
Which was the same kind of idea to get in on that?
um
So
So, what are we at right now we're uh
Chris jennings
Was it chris jennings
Shonald trump at 21 21, but I don't know if he's messing around
It was right above chris jennings 2050
My comments keep getting rejected because youtube thinks they're spam
Chris jennings, where is your
Shonald trump 21 21
Yeah, that's it should be like three above chris jennings 2050
I guess so shonald. Was that a real?
They put in 21 50 now. Oh chris. Yeah did the same 21 50. All right
Well, ah, there we go
Oh damn
Fine works fine works out of nowhere
Wow
Going in and I may just have to put the camera on jackson soon and pass out
It's it's 115 I can't keep going with this. No, I'm good. This is the last one for me. Yeah
Excellent. I'm literally gonna watch I
Support that
Does anybody not support ending on this, uh, so chris jennings
that
2250 is a bigger number than 2200. Yes
All right, there we go, oh
Line works well in 23
24
24
Why don't you guys just go ahead and throw out your biggest number here?
Go ahead and do that
Yeah, gorilla militia 415
In mass right now. He's been rocking the whole time man props to you
City keith
No one topped chris right still 24
Yeah, it's getting good it's a battle that last bit of adrenaline just shot through my brain
I thought I was hearing things. Honestly, I thought I was actually hearing crickets. So
Uh, you can hear the crickets I can
Can hear my fish tank?
It's very fancy
Let's go trip out about the crickets when uh, the sky was black down there you're posting about dude, that was
I had this feeling like it was like I don't know if i'm am I supposed to fucking like am I supposed to
Evacuate like should I run like I couldn't have told if there was like a fire next door. It was fucking weird, dude
It was the weirdest it was the weirdest like moment that I can ever really remember looking around and being like
Okay, I don't know what the fuck is going on it was it was really fucking weird it turned orange
And then after a few minutes it got to the point where it was it was I needed a flashlight to see where anything was
And it was 2 30 in the afternoon
The whole state was but it was so black there that was yeah, it was it was nuts. Yeah
And then I I saw the satellite picture of the of what went over us and then I saw why it was nuts
It was like
250 000 acres
Somewhere over near paradise burnt in like a matter of an hour or two
I can't that might be an exaggeration, but it was really fast
And then that cloud of smoke went over us and there was so much nitrogen dioxide in the air
Which has that reddish brown orange color?
And is also really fucking toxic it turns out
I'm out there walking around like oh, this is fucking crazy, dude
But that was that was what that was and that was like kind of unprecedented
I guess outside of like volcanic eruptions
Because there's never been a forest fire here
Where that much usually that's like a whole fire
but in this case that happened in a matter of hours and all that smoke flew over us and
I've I've had like a strange feeling of not
Panic, but like just wondering like am I?
Like a fucking idiot for standing here and looking at this
Am I like the guy standing there looking at fucking smoke and like I'm like, oh, yeah
I'm like the guy standing there looking at fucking Vesuvius going
That was a big that was a big cloud there. I kind of felt like that, you know, and then uh
You know it it it fucking went away after an hour or something and then someone else
I think it was Eric at HPK told me he's like
Yeah, it was like that for a while down here the other day and I was like, oh, okay
So it I guess it's been happening, but it was it was trippy
It was a weird fucking thing dude
All right, so we're currently at 2700
Lineworks who really needs these chris jennings questioning why
28 chris came back
So chris also really needs these
Somebody's gonna come up with three
Well, actually what i'm psyched about is that we're definitely gonna uh
Pass last week. I think last week we
I let me check what we raised last week
It was
78 something. Yeah
Yeah, 78 there's 7 835 last week, I mean we're definitely gonna 28 50 lineworks
Momentum question
Less words more numbers
Less talking they all do three. Okay, would you do three packs?
Yeah, I mean the the deal is when people do multiples like that I always ask who
um
I always ask whoever has the high bid if they're down with other people
Getting it and then like if if it's like 3
29 and 28
Then I ask the dude who bid three if he's okay with three winners
And then I give it to all three winners at 28, you know
But um
It all depends that whoever is the biggest winner as as the call on whether or not because they're bidding on one
It's not like oh there's going to be three winners. You tell people that they might not be this big
Yeah, so I I give them the the prerogative to call that because that's kind of they're they're the they're the boss at that point
Yep, if I look at that, I think oh chris said 3k
So you would give a pack to chris and line works for
What I mean, i'll i'll tell them i'll tell them right now if all of them want to call it right now
Who is there three people battling or two people two just two so it's line works and chris
Just two
Yep
So you you guys if you guys don't mind if chris doesn't mind right now i'll give you both
I'll give you both the winner. You guys can both be winners at 25
If chris is cool with that, if not chris gets it at three
Chris you have 240 people who want you to do the right thing right now
No, it's it's it's it's up to him I mean that's that's a matter of you know, he's bidding on a big thing that
The first pack of that, you know
That's having a pack before by the time if I'm gonna say are you cool with that months to be able to know
If they're worth releasing so chris says line works don't sell them and it's a deal
Like just keep them damn
Now line work too usually we actually work stuff
All right, so
Can't shake people what's the story
So I think
Lion work sells flower for a living
That's fine
All right. So I think chris, can you confirm that we have a deal that you both get it at less than you bid for?
Two winners at 25
It's better than one at three but
The one at three gets the call on it. Yep 25 is fine. Yes
Chris you both got a pack. Thank you chris
And that's five thousand
at
1 24 in the am
Is that awesome?
Yeah, it's to help people out. It's not I don't get nothing for it. I'm just letting something out and
They get less sleep
And uh, yeah five in the donation pile and i'll give you more than 30 seeds and i'll throw in some other stuff that nobody has
And it'll be great
So put some bukkake love on it, what's the total
Uh trevor ever he put up 12. Is that before the five? Yeah, I think so. I think that was 14
570. All right, that's
Nice nice
Wow awesome
Amazing. Yeah, it's crazy
All right, I feel good I can go to sleep happy tonight
All right, happy yeah, so with that
uh
Unless someone wants to keep going which god, I hope no one does. Yeah, i'm calling
All right, so everybody watching everybody bidding, uh
Where the money's going for a second just to wrap it up that way well, so
so
The money is going into a gofundme account and then we can kind of collectively decide
How to dole it out, um, like last week it specifically went to food not bombs
um
there's like
An inner circle of people
So bam and adam and trevor and jackson and
uh
eva and other people who
You know, it's kind of like people have friends who have lost houses so i'm assuming
Uh, shanald, I appreciate that
Uh, i'll let you know
uh last from last week we had one who I mean, I believe they will pay but out of all the
Winners only one has not yet paid
uh trevor has talked about the fact that a lot of
The people this week have already paid the night of which is great. It's appreciated because we don't have to chase after you
um
But uh, yeah, I I think you know the money from tonight and future
Fundraisers, I mean it it's it's a mixed bag of going to non-profits. It's going to people who lost their homes. I know
uh
like in our kind of group chat there was
You know a family that one person knew who?
You know their farm burnt down. It was also their home. So I mean it's specifically I don't know but it's it's
That type of stuff it's non-profits it's people who lost their homes. Um
So
Yeah, it's a lot of trying to figure out what's the what's the
fair place to make it
Go basically, there's basically like a group chat and people are like, oh, so this happened to so-and-so and all there's this organization
I mean, I just try to figure out what's really weighing out what's the best but it's none of it's bullshit and everything's vetted out
And nobody touches any of it. Um
it's it's not
uh going to anybody's hands before it goes anywhere else, so
If you see jackson driving around in a ferrari in a couple weeks, you'll
Yeah, I got that 14 I got it's probably a fear it's probably a fear
I've been looking into it and i'm not really
You know, it's it seems like it goes a lot farther if you if you give it to the food bank, but um
But uh, you know, hey, you know, I look good in a fierro too big man little fierro
so
You know
Yeah, I mean there's a guy there's a guy who lost his house up in oregon fires. Uh
There's
It's going to people who are really fucked there's a land trust
Yeah, yeah, so anyway to help people who are hard none of it's going to us
or anybody
None of it's going to anybody you see in the video or you see in the chat
Yeah
And chris jennings is ready for bed. And so am I? Yep on that note
All right
um
Yeah, and i'm trying to think I mean I I get I mean next week's, uh, thanksgiving right so
Evidently we're going next week too, but I I mean does every other week seem like a more kind of a
sustainable
reasonable
Schedule. Yeah, I think so
I think that's good. And I think too if it comes down to trying to really figure out what is the
Best way to figure out where the where the money goes. Um
It's all if it you know, if it had especially right now
Probably the the food the food bank would be great because like you said thanksgiving's coming up
And everybody doesn't have to have a feast for thanksgiving. But a lot of people right now don't have shit and um
at least if you can have you know that have something for that like people remember their thanksgivings growing up and
Um, not everybody celebrates but some people a lot of fucking people do and so that would be cool
And like they said adam put in a lot of shit
adam's the one who kind of got all of this put a fire under everybody's asked to do this and uh,
And uh, he does deserve
Credit for this and there's gonna be right now. He has a pile
Of stuff that's already been donated
Um separate from some of the stuff that's being put up is what he already has
but he has a lot of stuff that hasn't been that's gonna wind up probably on some kind of site where
You just donate and it gets sent. It's not an auction scenario. I think um
Some of it's gonna wind up going to a thing to be able to do like basically
What you could call grab bags but aren't really but just like essentials bags
To take to places where people really need stuff right now
There's still a lot of people who aren't living at their fucking houses
If your house burned down a couple months ago right now, it's not like you're building a house
um, even if people have insurance the insurance isn't coming in so he's trying to
Get together
basic fat like necessity kind of packages for people out of what comes in
and um, it's all kind of just
right at the point when people when
It's figuring out what's the best thing to do with all the stuff everybody put in
And and everybody put in a lot of stuff and thanks. Um
Thank you. Everybody who who sent him stuff right off people have been sending him stuff for a couple months
And it's still it's hard to figure out
the the
mechanics of getting everything out is really tricky
but um
You know, it's all happening and and and this is happening and everybody who's putting it in it's not just
uh
It's not just throwing money at nothing. It is all going straight to um
you know people who really need shit right now and shit's bad enough from
Just everybody losing their jobs businesses shutting down and everything and then you know
Then we then this is all started from the fires
And when the fires started we didn't even realize how bad shit was getting just from everything shutting down so
It uh, it's a big deal. So everybody who logged on and put something in. Thank you and anybody who
Got something from me. You're gonna get um a little more than what?
um
You thought you were bidding on too, you know
Yeah, and I think in coming weeks we'll have stuff where you know
Like we had the 50 pack where it's like make a 50 donation at least get something for it and we'll have like
the 30 donation gets you know
get
a pack of seeds or it could even be something else or 20 bucks, but
uh
A whole lot of 20 bills adds up. Uh
And it's gonna help someone this christmas. So that's kind of cool
and uh
We'll end on that
mean gene the real mvp
Truth
It's true. It's trippy. I'm not I didn't put up that much stuff. It's everybody else who
has enthusiasm for shit and understands the
understands the value of of having something cool or different and people who
Understand that it really fucking sucks for people who don't have shit
And that they want to help like i'm not doing very much at all
Like I said, I don't even want to sit around and spend my time packing shit up
I don't I would if it was what I had time to do
I just know the reality is i'm fucking struggling to be able to keep my own shit together
Um, I have I still have the regular fucking life. Everyone else has and I have to do everything
um
But it's everybody else who makes
All this shit really work because it's not I just have a couple seeds I put in that wasn't a big fucking deal
I you know, everybody anybody who grows seeds
Or who grows plants and knows how many seeds come from plant and everything like yeah, it's not
A big big thing to have some seeds. It's it's cool. Different genetics are really fucking valuable
But like everybody who's taking part in this is really the ones who are making it
Be something because I don't have fucking I can't just be like, oh here here's five thousand dollars the mechanics of that don't work
But boom, we just made five thousand dollars and I was a little part of having that shit
But you guys who donated for that and who are excited to grow that and use it are really the ones who made that
5k go to the people who fucking need it, you know, like that's not
Something that I could have done right now. So it's the shit
And trevor behind the scenes. Thank you very much
I appreciate the help
And uh, why don't we at 136?
What do you do when you call someone dead time of death
But uh, let's end it at 136
Thank you everyone, thank you everyone. Thank you guys. Thanks everyone. Good Eugene
