All right, and we are live on YouTube. Today we're going to talk about building a living soil raised bed.
That is me, Peter Saveri, and I'm joined by Tyler from Grassroots, Michael from
Sustainable Village, and the expert in all things blue mat and grassroots
and living soil, Scott Scams. Tyler was kind enough to even put an agenda together for us.
So I think the inspiration for this conversation is that Tyler actually has his raised beds up and
running, and he's not totally satisfied with his irrigation setup, so wants to move to blue mats.
We brought in the heavy hitters, and then taking a step back, my introduction to blue mat was
Scott, and I think you're also my intro to grassroots, so this is like a full circle for me.
So Tyler, why don't you take it away and talk about what your current setup is, and
and then we can get into it. Awesome, thank you, Peter, and thanks for having me on here, and
thank you, Michael and Scott, for joining us here with this one. This is something I've been
trying to do for a while, and I'm glad I'm kind of trying to bring it all together here,
but I'm running a 20 by 60 cold frame greenhouse up in the foothills. I've got
two beds that are 44 inches wide by 48 feet long, and I got one bed in the center,
it's exactly 48 feet, excuse me, four feet wide by another 48 feet long. I'm running a standard
six zone irrigation system. I'm only using three out of those six zones. Each bed has their own
zone. You can see the drip lines that I've got there, they've got a hole in them every 12 inches,
it's kind of just standard irrigation equipment that's used for agricultural, industrial
irrigation. Multiple zones, I have it firing a couple times a day in the morning for about eight
minutes on one bed, about 10 minutes on another bed, and then again in the evening at 8 p.m.
So I do two shots of water a day, and that's keeping my moisture levels good. From what I can
see, I'm using a really primitive RioTemp moisture meter, which is probably not as accurate as some of
the Blue Mat irrigation stuff. It has to be calibrated a lot, you've got to change the
battery out a lot, so that kind of sucks, so it's not the best thing to use. So I really need to
dial things in and get the proper moisture levels. I've got plenty of water, and I've got great
water. I've got really low ppms, around 42 ppms, and great pH. So I just want to dial things in
and take it a little bit further. I've got to be honest, right now I'm really comfortable with my
system, and the great part about it is my dad, he's been running irrigation systems like this for
years in the Bay Area, and just basic lawn garden stuff. So he can come in there and know exactly
what's going on, and make changes, and update things, and delay the water if it's a cold
day, and it wasn't 100 degrees, and maybe we don't need that second shot of water.
So that's a big benefit I have right now, is my dad can walk into that system, and he feels like
he's a master. So that's something that I would like to keep the simplicity. So yeah, and I would
like to get it over to a more efficient system. That helps out. Yeah, you're pretty lucky to have
your dad there, turning the system on and off when it's a cloudy day, or a cold day, or extra hot day.
Most folks don't really have that option to have someone that can maintain the water. So
yeah, that's really where the Blue Mats kind of kick in, and to maintain that static moisture level
in the soil. It's essentially, I don't know, for the folks that don't really know what Blue Mats is,
does it make sense if we just go over that real quick, and talk about what Blue Mats do?
I think that's a good idea to start there. Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, yeah, there's a Blue Mat
carrot right there. And the Blue Mats, the Blue Mat carrot, the Blue Mat sensor, these are Austrian
made products. They've been around for quite a long time in one form or another, at least like
over 40 years. Scott is our model. Yeah. Nice hands, bro. Did you have that, how Blue Mats work
image? Did I send you that yesterday, Peter? I can screen share it in too. I got some diagrams.
But yeah, Todd, let me dig for it for a second. Yeah, sure. So anyways, the Blue Mats, they're a
ceramic cone with a plastic cap, and they're filled with water. And then they're buried in the soil up
to the top of the cap there. And through that plastic cap, you can see those three holes in
the bottom, through that plastic cap right there, there's usually a three millimeter silicon line.
And it's a very thin water line. And that brown top part there is actually part of an on-off valve.
So the way they work is, as the soil dries out, the soil moisture level drops, and that pulls a
small amount of water from the inside of the cone into the ceramic itself. Because as the soil
dries out, the ceramic dries out. And what results is a negative hydrostatic pressure. And there you
go with the line there. So you now have like a negative pressure on the inside of that as the
soil dries out. Just one second here. And that's my one-year-old, Willa. She's been that expert
already. So as the soil dries out, the ceramic cone dries out, creates negative pressure. That
negative pressure pulls down on a little membrane there, which opens a valve and allows water to
flow through. So you have water come out of that tube. It can either drip straight out of the tube,
it can drip through a series of distribution drippers, or even we have a soaker hose, this
Blue Soak soaker hose, which is right here. This is excellent, Scott. Nice work.
I'm putting one at the house, so I got it spread all over the living room floor here. Awesome.
Yeah. So that's the Blue Soak soaker hose. We can do a big arrays of that. We can do,
you know, we could do a couple hundred feet up to behind one of those carrots. So you have some sort
of water delivery method, and that's going to rehydrate the soil. And as the soil rehydrates,
the cone will rehydrate, and that will neutralize the pressure and close the valve.
So you have this on-off valve that's operating based on the soil moisture levels. And the end
result is you maintain really static moisture levels in the soil. And there's all kinds of,
you know, tremendous benefits for that as far as soil health goes. And, you know,
let Scott speak to that more. But, you know, that hydro neutral status of the soil is really
beneficial for lots of different kinds of plants, and particularly cannabis. So we have these
analog, you know, non-electric systems that maintain static moisture levels, and they're
really low tech. There's a ton of benefits which we can get into, and results and kind of, you know,
case studies about that. But that's what a blue mat is. It's that sensor, it's an on-off sensor.
Our company, Sustainable Village, we're kind of an exclusive importer of all the blue mat products
for the U.S. So all the blue mats that are sold in the U.S. come through our warehouses in Boulder.
We're in Boulder, Colorado right now. I'm just outside of Boulder. But that's the,
that's kind of the quick, the quick rundown of what a blue mat does and how it works.
So in Skylar, or in Tyler's case, you know, raised beds, we do a tremendous amount of raised beds,
and most of them tend to be grassroots fabric, living soil raised bed, which is a tremendous
product. We also resell those for grassroots, and they're incredibly popular. Just, you know,
we've got a bunch in our like showrooms and test gardens around, and I couldn't speak more highly
I couldn't speak more highly of them. That living soil liner, I know Scott, you were
kind of instrumental in that, you and your wife, is that correct? And yeah, and that's just been
a game changer as far as fabric pots go. I feel like it's just solved so many issues with that.
So actually, can we talk about that for a second, Scott? What was the issue you,
you, because we talked about this on a previous show where you talked about like,
actually, we have the two companies that are willing to listen to feedback.
So can you talk about, you know, from a soil scientist standpoint,
what you were seeing with your average raised bed? And then you were like, what have you did, X?
Yeah. Well, I first, I think I want to touch on what you just said, like, yeah,
the grassroots and sustainable village have been absolutely phenomenal. It's really common
in the industry that cannabis growers are kind of dismissed. And, you know, really kind of ignored
in a lot of ways by a lot of the companies. And, you know, I really want to tip my hat to both
Michael and Tyler. I think they're phenomenal humans that serve a fantastic purpose in the
industry. And, you know, both Tyler and Michael have to serve a really unique position in that
they are a central hub for all the personalities of the industry. And, you know, it's really easy
for egos to get out of control in this industry. And, you know, I can't say that I've ever heard
Michael or Tyler say anything negative about anything. And I just, I really commend them for
being that central hub, being just remarkably impeccable with their word and being very
respectable to everybody. I just, I have a lot of respect for both Tyler and Michael and, you know,
sustainable village in general. So I just wanted to say that first, but as far as the living soil
liner, you know, our job as consultants would come to living soil facilities and we would do
microscope analysis of soils. And, you know, my own personal journey was watching these fabric
pots come into existence. When I came into the industry, that's really when they first started
popping onto the scene. And a lot of my grower friends moved to them and they were dramatic.
The thing that always perplexed me was people would report that the benefits of
the fabric pots was the root pruning that would happen at the edge of the pot.
Never once in my life did I see roots actually make it out to the edge of the pot in a living
soil system. And what was happening is the outside of the pot would dry out and the roots don't
really travel through soil that has no moisture in it. And so, you know, we started looking for
ways to actually have the roots grow out to the edge of the pot. And the original goal was
we were trying to deal with some of the obstacles of commercial cultivation and light depth. And,
you know, people would move to 30 gallon pots because, you know, two guys can pick them up
pretty easily, but we'd get way better results out of a 65 gallon pot. But that was completely
unreasonable to do like the veg and flip strategy. It was just really a nightmare to move them. You
had to build intricate rolling carts and really like a 30 gallon pot was, you know, the deal.
And we spent a significant amount of time inside certain greenhouses quantifying the biological
populations of the soil with a microscope using Dr. Lane Ingham's methods. And we would see remarkable
variation across the space, depending on where those pots were located in the greenhouse.
And, you know, we started wrapping the fabric pots with pallet wrap, and that literally overnight
changed the complete dynamics of the soil. You know, the first farm that really publicly wrapped
them. Yeah, there you go. There's a picture of it right there. So, you know, we were talking with
So, you know, we were talking with Tyler and they, their company does a lot of different textiles,
and they had that product in the building. And so, you know, we asked Tyler if it'd be possible
to sew them in there. And that was a game changer. We started getting the results in a 30 gallon pot
that we were getting out of a 65 gallon pot. So, you know, I think, you know, it just shows the
adaptability of grassroots. And, you know, I really tip my hat to Tyler because Tyler has his ear to
the streets, you know, he's talking to people, he's there seeing what the farmers are doing. And
he's a grower himself. And he has a relationship with his ownership that his ownership trusts his
observations of the market, and they react to it. A lot of other companies have a hard time reacting
to it. And, you know, grassroots was able to sew them up and just hit the ground running.
As far as I'm concerned, it's the only container you should be using for living soil.
And we see remarkable benefits from using that. So, you know, hats off to grassroots for being
adaptable and able to move in the market like that. And to be able to just create a quality
product, like, you know, the other thing was, if you take a 30 gallon fabric pot that you get at
the hydro store, you know, if you try to pick it up, the bottom blows out. And so, you know,
the grassroots don't do that, you know, part of sustainability is not buying a bunch of junk each
year. So we see a tremendous amount of advantages. We had some indoor facilities that switched to
the living soil liner or really started pallet wrapping the beds first. And, you know, that led
to like a 30% reduction in water usage. And it also led to about a 20 to 30% reduction in electrical
usage, because the dehumidifiers are running less. And so when you talk about a market that's
shrinking in profit margins, like that is a considerable step towards sustainability. And,
you know, I think right off the bat, we got a little bit of flack for adding more plastic to
the growth space. But I think reducing electrical usage and reducing water usage by 30% is a
tremendous step towards actual sustainability. So I'm a big fan for sure. We use them everywhere,
everywhere we can.
Thank you, Scott. Really appreciate that.
Yeah, man. It's good shit. It's the only thing you should be using. But those first pots that
Tyler made us, which is the other thing, like Tyler could immediately R&D some stuff. They did it
48 hours, you know, and we're able to put them to use and we were able to see those roots grow out.
And then they actually started growing through the pot. And I hadn't seen that in any other fabric
pot in my journeys, you know.
Thick fabric too. Thick American made.
Yeah, buddy. Yeah.
So do we want to go through kind of some best practices? I mean,
I'm Tyler, I'm looking at your handy agenda. I mean, do you want to talk like, you know,
your typical four by four, four by eight raised bed kind of how do you approach that, Michael?
What you're on mute.
Yeah, so we have, you know, for raised beds, the four by fours, four by eights,
have a few different kind of common designs that we use. And they all tend to be
with the blue silk. And that's the real economical way to do it. There's
methods where we use a lot of carrots and distribution drippers. And in the past,
people have done really massive raised beds with doing that. But, you know, anything at all
commercial, I mean, even Tyler's size, like with the 350 foot beds or 48 foot beds, you're just
going to want to use blue silk, which is that soaker hose that Scott had showed us there.
That stuff is a really neat product.
You know, for a long time, we were trying to figure out ways
to use blue mats with some sort of drip tape or a soaker hose. And, you know, I should point out
that while blue mats are an Austrian product that we purchase and resell, there's a number of
products that we have custom made for Sustainable Village and blue silk is one of those. So that's
a proprietary product for us. And it's something that came out of the results of a lot of R&D work,
trying to find something that would work with the blue mats. And the reason it does is that,
you know, it was that white tubing Scott was holding up. And it's made out of a material
that's very, very similar to Tyvek. And actually, on the inside of it, I know Scott has it in his
window there, there's a thin black piece of plastic in the middle. It's kind of in a crescent
moon shape. And there's some really neat... So the cool thing about the blue silk is it operates at
very low pressure. And that's why we can use it with the blue mats. Because, you know, a lot of
drip tapes needed a minimum operating pressure of like eight to 10 psi. The blue silk, we can get
over a hundred psi. And so, you know, we can get over a hundred psi of pressure with the blue
mats. So eight to 10 psi. The blue silk, we can get away with like one to two psi and get good,
even coverage over long distances. It also puts out very, very even watering, not just where there
are emitters. It'll just, you know, water in over thousands of little micro holes. It kind of weeps
out over time. And as you start to, you know, mulch over the top of it, or people will even
bury it a little bit, the roots of the plants will actually grow right around it and kind of
encapsulate the blue silk. And, you know, I've seen this many times and it's always very cool
to pull back a layer of mulch on a raised bed and not be able to see any of the blue silk anymore
because it's got this, you know, half inch thick layer of feeder roots just completely encircling
it. So anyways, it was a real, you know, watershed moment for us when we got the blue silk to work.
That makes it for us. The design here that Peter's brought up for us is our manifold bed design.
And we use this in a lot of longer raised beds. So, you know, maybe a four by four or four by
eight, we might have a slightly different variety, but you certainly could do this.
If, you know, Peter, if you wouldn't mind just kind of just zooming out just a little bit on this one.
Like a system like this, what we would do is we would start our system. So the Blue MAP systems
run under constant pressure. So your supplier line is under a constant low pressure, 15 psi is the
max we want to play around in pressure levels below 15. So we'll start our systems with a
pressure reducer. And then we'll, you know, generally we've been doing a lot of things where
we kick it up to a half inch line right away. So we're using like a half inch poly tube line
for our main supply line. And, you know, the half inch poly tube is much less expensive than the
eight millimeter tubing that we sometimes use. So when we get into large, we're covering large
distances, you know, in large greenhouses or indoor situations, or we've lately been doing a lot of
really big kind of outdoor facilities too. And when we have to cover long distances, we like to go with
the half inch poly tubing versus the eight millimeter superflex or polyvinyl tubing.
And what we'll do is just run these supply lines down the lengths of each bed. So, you know, Tyler,
for you, this is what I would recommend. And you can make the zones on your bed as big or as small
as you want. And, you know, I might suggest you do like 12 foot long zones. You know, you got 48 foot
beds. You can go ahead and do four 12 foot zones per bed. So you're looking at only eight carats
per bed because we use two carats per bed. And, you know, so we run a mainline supply,
like a little header across the top of the greenhouse and then lines coming down.
Do you want me to zoom into any one of the one, two or three or just keep it wide?
Yeah. So if you go to two right now, that kind of image there. So you can see here we have,
you know, it's not to scale obviously, but you have the upper left corner, there's the pressure
reducer and we go into the half inch poly line. And then there's these T fittings at various places.
And the T fittings that go down the lengths of the beds reduce down to eight millimeters.
And so we do about three feet of the eight millimeter tubing right there. And those
are what we connect the carats to. If you scroll over to the number three there.
Yeah, that's good. That's perfect right there. You can see kind of up close of how these manifold
beds lay out. And what we're looking at is the half inch line there on the right,
reducing down to eight millimeters. And we have a five inch carat on one end of that
zone, that manifold bed zone. And then on the other end is a nine inch carat. So you have two
different length carats that are measuring two different soil depths, both watering the same
zone. And these zones can be as long or short as you want, you know, if you want them to be
four by four or four by eight or four by 12 or four by 20. You know, that's about as far as we
want to push them. I mean, we do them four by 30 once in a while, but really four by 20 is about
as far as I like to push them. And you have those two carats and if either of those carats,
the soil near them dries out, then they're going to open their valve at the top of the carat and
it's going to water into that header that's connected to the four blue soak lines. And
that'll put a nice even layer of water down, you know, through the blue soak. It'll rehydrate that
soil. It'll bring it back up to the moisture level that, you know, you've dialed it in to maintain
and then it'll turn off. So, you know, the smaller the zones, the more sensitive your system is.
But also it's going to have a slightly more, slightly higher cost and it's going to be more
carats to mess around with. So, you know, it's always a balancing act with blue mat systems.
You know, how sensitive and redundant do I want to get versus how economical and simple do I want
to go? And, you know, the bigger the facility, the more I want to go towards that economical,
simple kind of method as a designer. So this is kind of basic design that we'd like to use.
There's other ways to do it. There's some, we have a couple of folks that are real big
blue mat proponents out there that do it in slightly different ways and they're all,
they're all pretty good. This works for us really well.
Scott, do you have a, do you have a, actually let me get it, sorry. Scott, do you have a signature
technique or how you like to lay them out? I choose simplicity. You know, my kind of
journey with them was my buddy Corey turned me on to them in 2014 and, you know, at that time,
Corey had spent a tremendous amount of time talking with Steve at Sustainable Village. And,
you know, Steve donated a tremendous amount of phone time to Corey to get his understanding.
And at that time there was only the distribution drippers available. And the downside of the
distribution drippers is they're expensive. Like the middle drippers are like a dollar 10,
end drippers are 90 cents. And so a four by eight bed, you're going to have four end drippers. You
got four bucks and end drippers, and then you're going to have $16 in distribution drippers. You
have $20 in dripper parts for every four by four space. You know, at that time we were using more
pots than beds. And so we were using two carats with three or four drippers per carat. And what
we found was that the carats would overlap and the end dripper would negatively affect the carat.
We had a really hard time in the commercial space navigating that with people because, you know,
Corey had spent an entire year talking to Steve and had a very solid understanding. I was taught
by him, so I jumped into it, but we were kind of having a hard time getting facilities on board
once it got to a certain space. Because like what Michael said was the more carats, the more things
to adjust, the more things to go wrong. And I think what really catalyzed the Bluemat system
into the space, you know, the commercial space was the Blue Soak hose. And I didn't even realize
that was a sustainable village thing. That is amazing. That's a new fact to me. I just assumed,
I know you guys have connections for manufacturing. I just, because that literally was the game
changer of it because, you know, we started moving up in our consulting into larger facilities and
naturally I want to put them in every facility I'm working with because of what I've seen with
the microscope analysis and how dramatic the effects are on yield. But there was a cost issue
with all those parts. And then, you know, the facilities that we did get them put into, there
was a pretty steep learning curve for all those carats. And so the manifold system, I don't know
if Michael came up with that or what, but whoever came up with that, it was pure genius. And it
really solves a lot of the problems. You know, anytime you start to overlap the carats to where
sorry, that was a little weird echo. It starts to get really dramatic and complicated when,
you know, the drippers are affecting a nearby carat. It makes it very hard to figure out when
to adjust what. And so having the straight lines of the manifolds and having the carats on opposite
ends so they're nowhere near each other, that made it way easier. So I always go for simplicity.
You know, I love Steve at Sustainable Village. He's an amazing dude. I think he over complicates
stuff sometimes. And that I think has negatively impacted the adoption of the product personally.
Because I know in my first system, it was very difficult to navigate and I just started
stripping down carats. So I always go way less parts than what is traditionally suggested
personally. And it seems to work fine. You know, I found that like a 12-foot manifold is a really
good length. I personally don't go longer than that. Because when we go through a facility,
like all of my decisions are dictated by the microscope analysis. And what we found is,
so like I don't know if you all can see this, but like, so this is a little drawing of
of Tyler's or anybody's greenhouse really. So we've got airflow typically going one direction.
We have our beds. A lot of times there's a wet wall on this side. A lot of times there's exhaust
fans on this side. The most dysfunctional regions of any greenhouse are up against the wall by the
wet wall and up against the wall by the fans. These are getting excessively saturated by
moisture because of the wet wall. And these are getting excessively
dried because of all the air movement. And so you have similar problems. So like when we would go to
dissect like a spider mite issue, there would be spider mites in this corner and spider mites in
this corner. But they're actually manifesting from opposite problems. So this side, you know,
in a sealed greenhouse with a wet wall is getting a tremendous amount of moisture forced into the air,
which negatively affects transpiration. So these plants are using less moisture because they
physically cannot transpire as much. The plants down on this side are using way more water because
they're having way more turbulence and they're burning through their moisture because
they transpire more quickly. And so I really tend to try and zone this up, you know, as much as I can
because when we go through this building and we dissect from end to end with all of our microscope
analysis, whether this is a thousand square feet or 180,000 square feet, the same phenomenons become
the same and everything gets magnified at scale. And so, you know, if you're running a little six
slider, it's the same thing. You know, you're going to have a hot corner, you're going to have a high
airflow corner, and where the blue mats are literally unmatched in anything else I've seen
is it balances this out. And so on this end where they're getting more moisture not
transpiring properly, they'll use less moisture and the blue mats will stop it.
On this side where they're getting way more moisture, you know, it's going to open up and
it's going to water that and it's going to keep all of these in a really consistent
moisture. And then this in and of itself reduces pest problems. And this is one of the
things that like, you know, we're really lacking in the industry is like whenever I propose
a blue mat system, people are automatically, you know, defensive for any other costs, especially
for something they haven't seen in person. But like, you know, we've got a facility right now
that's got five greenhouses in it. It's their first living soil harvest. They just completed
harvest one. They've got all new crews and they're having kind of a nightmare managing the moisture.
And a lot of times, especially in a commercial facility, most often it's the, you know, lowest
person on the totem pole handling the watering. And what that means is your assets, your investment,
your crop health, your yield, your pest and disease pressure is in the hands of the lowest
level employee in the facility. And, you know, people have a hard time wrapping their mind
around that. And so we never, as cannabis growers, especially never take into account
the effort, the cost, the loss in yield, the loss in quality that happens from pest and disease issues.
And we never correlate that to a blue mat system. And so at first we're like, ah, the budget won't
manage another couple grand. But, you know, if you're in a regulated facility, you're really
restricted in the pest control measures that you're able to do. And those products are very expensive
and very, very common. We come into a facility to help them out. We come in to navigate pest and
disease issues. They're paying for us. They're paying for testing. They're paying for employees
to spray products. They're paying for these very expensive products that won't cause a test fail.
And I'm telling you, it's 10 to 20 times the cost of a blue mat system to battle pest and disease
issues. And, you know, so that's kind of my personal rant on it. But like I said, I like
to keep it really simple. I like doing pump systems. I like doing the manifold system.
I prefer to keep it, you know, 12 feet or less. So I just kind of do everything 12 foot.
And you'll end up a lot of times, you know, 48 foot, like Tyler says, a really common length.
So you'll end up with three 12s and an eight, something like that. You know, that's my
personal experience. I also like to keep the carrots the same. In my experience, I feel like
the longer carrots have a different response time and kind of a fine tune than the short carrots.
I understand the principles of mixing them up. And I think those principles are sound. I could
see why you would want to do it. It's just a personal preference. I try to keep them all
separate. So when I do my systems, I order all short carrots. If I'm using distribution drippers,
I like the long carrots. You know, that's just a personal preference. I think they all clearly
work, you know. The short carrots are also a little less expensive. So I can kind of take some
of the cost of the longer carrots, transfer it to the lower cost carrot, and that allows me to go
to 12 foot. So it ends up, you know, kind of the same.
Michael, can you talk a little bit about the kind of functional purposes of the long and short carrots?
Yeah, absolutely. You know, I mean, I think we pretty much really covered them. The advantage of
the longer carrot is to measure your soil moisture level at a different depth. So we're down there in
the nine inches below the surface versus five. And, you know, like what Scott's saying is
completely valid. There's, you know, in my own home garden, some of the beds I just use nine
inches. Some of them I just use five inches. And, you know, the five inch carrots really,
they keep that upper layer of the soil more moist than they might with the nine inch.
You know, you can keep the consistency. In a way, it's easier to keep the soil more consistent
with the five inch carrots. But it really is a personal preference thing. There's a number of
kind of stylistic aspects of the Blue Mat systems that are really about personal
preference. And that's great. You know, one thing I have to remind people about with Blue Mat systems
is that they're really like a living, dynamic, you know, organic system. And they're
different than, say, a traditional drip irrigation system that's going to run off a timer, where it's
just a pretty, you know, calculated thing that takes into account, you know, flow rates and pressure
and time running. And it's not a math equation in the same way. It's a little bit more like
a living organism, or more like an artistic endeavor in a way. There's a little bit of
quality there that allows people to have professional results that are going to exceed,
you know, the traditional drip irrigation systems. But also, you know, can be adapted to the
individual grower or the designer who is putting it together.
So, Tyler, you had some, you know, I'm just looking at some of like the what are the beds
sitting on flat surface or drainage for Scott and Michael kind of when you're
setting up raised beds like I mean, Scott, I remember the greenhouse and carpenteria. I mean,
I think we just had like the tarp underneath, right?
As far as what purpose for blocking from the toxicity of the...
Right, well, that would be the critical one. But generally, when you're setting up a raised bed,
are you putting some sort of drainage underneath? Like, what are you doing underneath the raised
bed before you put the beds and all the soil in?
Not much, personally. In the case of the carpenteria project, that was actually
one of the main motivating factors to look into something to insulate the pots because we were
seeing issues early on in those commercial facilities that moved into cut flower houses
that were failing for compounds that the cultivators never used. So, we were that was
actually the first request for the living soil liner was to put something on the bottom
because we're trying to insulate. And, you know, I think that was effective. But then we were
worried about root rock concerns, which was a reasonable concern. So, we moved to a remediation
strategy instead of lining the pots on the bottom. But as far as the beds, I personally like to fill
the bed with soil. There's a popular trend in living soil to put a layer of lava rock or
something on the bottom. And I'm not personally a big fan of that. You know, one of our past
clients that had an issue with blue mats that speaks pretty poorly of them and talks a lot of
people out of buying the system had a layer of lava rocks in the bottom of his bed. And that was
negatively affecting the carrots because if the carrot touches the lava rock, it doesn't have the
full, you know, I'm trying to do this without being really phallic. But what it does is it like
it impacts the contact of the soil to the carrot itself. And so when they would cram these long
carrots in and it would punch into the lava rock, that would negatively affect the way the carrot
runs. So, if you're going to run the long maxi carrots, you know, be really mindful of where that
layer of lava rock is in relation to how the tips are running. And so, because of that experience,
we saw a lot of run-ons and floods and kind of just general nightmare with that specific install.
And so I'm not a fan for that. Personally, myself, like I think the motivation for having a big layer
of lava rock is kind of misguided for living soil in that you shouldn't be running into situations
where you flood it that much. And if you do flood it, and if you're using the living soil liner,
like all of the evaporation is going to happen on the bottom anyways. And, you know, I think that it
kind of evaporates out the bottom as a design of the pot. And so I feel like the solution with
the living soil line pot is, you know, helps with that issue. And personally, like, you know,
I think grassroots made a really good decision making their beds deeper than the competition.
And there's definitely enhanced results from doing that. And I think just completely filling it up
with soil, you know, that's an advantage as well. You know, and that's for the context of a covered
greenhouse. You know, I, for the first time last year, put pots outside. I'm a Southern California
guy. And there's not many places you can really put plants outside comfortably. And now that we
live in Northern California, last season, I put my first outdoor plants, and I had the living soil
line pots, and we had a big rain at the end of the season. And it did take a while for them to dry
out. And so under that context, I could see maybe the lava rock in the bottom, but anything in a
covered greenhouse or indoors, I think it's, you know, fill it up with soil and minerals and nutrients.
You know, personally, and then we just throw them right on the ground. But again, I'm a West Coast
guy. If you're in a cold climate, then there's considerations for, you know, lining the bottom
with some sort of insulation, but I'm not an East Coast guy. So I'm not really the best advice for
that. I know people use maybe insulation panels or something like that. People put them up on
pallets. I know that works really well. You know, I personally try to keep the beds really low.
I'm not an advocate of rolling benches at all. I'm not really an advocate of lifting the
beds up. I'm six foot three with long ass arms. And I still can't reach over the tops of most of
these commercial facilities. And most people at these facilities are much shorter than I am.
And I don't understand why we move the tops of the plants so far away from the employees all the time
in an effort to maximize canopy on paper when you're designing the building. So, you know, I
just throw them right on the ground, fill them up as much as possible. You know, I typically like to
fill the beds to where the seam is. So where you see the difference between the white and tan.
I normally like to fill them up and that leaves you a little room for a mulch layer.
We've seen some weird situations in really extremely dry climates where if they start
to mound the soil up above the bed, we start to see really dramatic evaporation from the top.
And so I like to have the soil surface down and protected. You know, if you go to like a really
desert climate, they try to go down, not up and raise bed. It has something to do with evaporation
and soil surface. So I like to use that bed as a protection layer to try and kind of keep some of
that evaporation in there personally. But yeah, if you're a commercial facility, it's moving into
a cut flower facility, you definitely need a strategy for insulating from the soil.
But, you know, I think we've gotten so far away from letting plants touch the ground
that, you know, I think they evolve to touch the surface of the planet. I think the closer you can
get them to the surface of the planet, there's benefits, you know. We just love separating them,
putting an air gap and I don't know. And just quickly for clarification, Strong Style Organics
on YouTube asked, why no rolling benches? It's specifically because it keeps getting the tops
higher. And when you have employees who have to take care of the plants, like that's the main,
is that the main reason? Well, it's a phenomenon. So what happens is you have a planning meeting for
a facility and you have a situation most often where there's a cultivator and there's an investment
group and there's a lot of pressure on the cultivator to maximize canopy because at the
planning stage we're focused on how many widgets can we produce. And there's normally a number
anchored in their mind for how many dollars they can pull out of a cubic meter. And so we're trying
to maximize cubic meter. In the planning phase, on paper, is the only time when that makes sense.
From that point forward, it becomes a hassle. You know, the biggest obstacle is living soil
is extremely heavy. I've not seen a commercially produced product that has a weight capacity
rating for how heavy living soil is per square foot. And so what ends up happening is somebody
ends up making them, you end up spending a tremendous amount of money to remanufacture
them so that they will hold the living soil. And then, you know, part of our consulting work is
the entire first day we go to a facility, we spend the entire day working with employees. And so,
you know, we have literally, we follow them around and we just work with them. You know,
we're not there to like babysit or superfise. Like we're there to see where the barriers to
success are. We're there to see what's keeping them from their overall goal.
Which is probably something that their bosses have never done, right?
The dude that wants you to maximize canopy never has to move one of those things. So,
you know, it's a spreadsheet gangster dream world. And what ends up happening is
we go to a facility and we watch employees try to move, you know, this 27,000 pound bench or
whatever the hell it is. And it's a nightmare. They work for about three, four, five months.
And then what ends up happening is, you know, they always try to move them by themselves. And
in the first couple of months, you can push on one side and they'll start to, they'll kind of
accordion close and one person will be able to move them. Past like month three, that shit just
binds up. And then what ends up happening is you get an employee in the real world that's trying
to do their job under a tremendous amount of pressure. And they walk into that space and
they'll be in one row and they'll look over and they'll say, oh shit, I need to do something over
there. And they'll look to the left and they'll look to the right and they'll say, nah, screw it.
And employees do this every time when we're working with them, you know, and that's,
you know, I just, I don't personally see any advantage to them. You maximize canopy,
but from day one till infinity, you significantly decrease labor issues. And,
you know, probably the person that really understands this strategy is Steve at Green
Life Productions, which he gets a tremendous amount of flack. Almost every one of his photos
where he shows a long canopy, there's someone chiming in about wasted space and blah, blah, blah.
And, you know, you're an idiot. And it's like, that dude has gotten every single pound to market
and sold it. Like he has something really figured out and he is absolutely dominating the market.
The dude's killing it. Yeah. The bud tenders buy the weed before the people can. Yeah, exactly.
It's like, you know, his shit's sold out in two hours, you know? And so, you know, I don't know
for commercial considerations, you know, the whole maximizing canopy and widgets on paper
stops the day you start building that building. And I have yet to be in a facility where you're
like, ooh, those benches kick ass, you know, not one. I've not been to one or not even be like,
oh, that bench works well. And so, you know, yeah, see, there you go. So you got the photo
up there, but yeah, they're killing it. And people are constantly, you know, kind of
hassling him for how much aisle space there is. But like that facility is really efficient. That
team is, you know, on a whole nother level compared to a lot of the people out there. And so,
you know, they continue to keep doing it and they continue to keep expanding. So something's
obviously working. I don't know. But yeah, I don't, you know, rolling benches make the
employee and make the facility builder happy or the investor happy, but it makes a complete
nightmare for your employees. And they just don't do it. They don't do their job because it's too
difficult. And, you know, I'm just, I've yet, you know, there's one, there's one company.
What's that guy? Can't think of his name right now. He used to run the Harborside Greenhouse,
and now he does the tiered racking. I think that guy's name. Can't think of right now.
Anyways, they use...
Short or someone like that or...
Not short. I think Michael knew him. Anyways, but nonetheless, their little hand crank,
I think it's BHN or something like that. There's one brand, but I mean...
Oh, Pip?
Yeah, I think Pip uses them. Yeah, that guy.
Pip and Montel Storage, but I think, is it Arlo Systems in Colorado?
Yeah, Montrell, I think it was. Yeah.
Montel Storage. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. So it's, you know, they're like four inches off the ground, I think. And then it can
hold like a thousand pounds per linear foot or something like that, which is way above our needs.
And one human can hand crank it. But then you propose that cost to a facility and they literally
laugh you out. So I've yet to personally see a facility install them, but that's the only
style of benches that I would even mess with. But like, you know, like I said, look at Greenlife
Productions. They've got massive aisleways. They've got short bed lengths. Their employees
are happy to do their job. They could get to one place to the other and they do their job.
And that leads to actual yield increasing strategies. People are so focused on how can
I cram this building full of plants, but they don't think past day one. It's like, what's it
going to be like to operate this? How efficient am I going to be at my job? How many months in
am I going to completely burn out my employees? You know, that's what actually leads to profitability.
That's what actually leads to sustainability. If you're burning out your employees in the first
few months, like you're going to have a rough time. Where I was going with that, the original
purpose for that question was we've got so many customers using these indoors and I just kind of
cringe whenever I see somebody set a big giant raised bed right onto concrete. Just because I
know there's creating an uneven drainage. You know, a lot of times you have a wet concrete floor
and you see all these little tiny dips. And I just imagine that just being full of water and it
never drying out and being an anaerobic situation. So indoors on concrete, you know, I personally
would recommend raising the bed up off of the ground with a plastic tray. You can see Steve
at Green Life Productions, he actually silicone glued his trays to the floor so he doesn't have
to clean under them. And he's maximizing his total headspace there. But we have a few customers
we have a coworker here, our customer service manager that suggested these 12 inch by 12 inch
snap together tiles. And we've had a lot of people very successful with those. So it's a go on Google,
you can Google 12 inch by 12 inch plastic snap together tiles.
Yeah, I think this shows Steve's setup sort of right. Can you see that?
Yeah, so those those are actually on rolling benches. So there's a lot. But Steve's another
tall guy too. He's like six three. But yeah, Tyler's totally right. There's cleanliness issues.
You know, sometimes when yeah, the dude's super clean. They run a tight ship over there.
But, but what's important is his employees love their job. Those people are happy to do there
because he can he takes those considerations into what's going to make my crew enjoy this,
what's going to make them effective, and what's going to make them fully and completely execute
the job every time that that should dictate the conversation not how do I maximize widgets on
paper, that his employees are not scared to tell him when there's an issue. I've noticed, you know,
they're so comfortable with Steve, they can say this is what's going on. That's what's going on.
I was there for a tour. And it was whole stop for five seconds. Let's just figure this out and see
what's got what the employees got to say. And then we'll go from there. So I've got a lot of
respect for Steve and how his employees can easily communicate with them. Yep. Creating an in
creating an environment for success. That's, that's, that's extremely important. But so yeah,
there are some considerations, especially in regulated facilities, you need a proper floor
drain, you need to be able to periodically rinse out the building. You know, so yeah, that that
gets to Tyler, your bullet point about runoff, right? So like, what are the beds sitting on flat
surface or drainage runoff, you're gonna have runoff at a certain point, I know that the goal
here is not to have runoff and retain everything. But let's say life happens and you're in your
third run and your soil pH spikes or your EC takes a dump. And you've got to fix that. The only way to
fix that is to flush through a lot of water in the correct pH or correct EC as far as I know.
And that's going to require some runoff and you better plan for that. Otherwise, you're going to
be stripping that whole thing down and making some changes, which is going to suck financially.
Okay, so Tyler, you also had a feel free to take over your own agenda if you want, but
we had root growth benefits and biology benefits. So I guess I've raised beds and and specific
watering systems, right? Yeah, I think some people are very clear about the benefits. Obviously,
Michael went over that with especially I talked about how the roots just fully encompass those
drip lines. I think I'm really excited to see that because I know I'm having some issues with
moisture, too much moisture, too little moisture. So obviously, we'd love to hear how fungi,
beneficial fungi needs to have the proper moisture levels to thrive. And same thing with
bacteria, obviously. Yeah, and obviously, it's a, you know, Scott's got a lot more to say about
this, probably than I do. But the bacteria is probably the bacteria and the fungi are
are what we're looking to and there's a number of other microorganisms. But they're really,
you know, the way I like talking about it with people is blue mats, you know, the hold,
the hold that moisture level, right, right with right at the level you want to set it. So you
aren't getting a lot of fluctuation. And in all of these microorganisms have like a preferred
moisture level for for their most activity and for the health of the organisms. You know, it's
kind of like a Goldilocks zone, right? It's not too dry, it's not too wet. It's it's right in the
middle. And if you can hold the soil, right at those levels, all of those organisms, you know,
they're not going to be going dormant because it's too dry or too wet, they're going to be producing
and whatever their job is, if it's transferring nutrients or solubilizing, you know, raw materials
into plant available foods, whatever that is, they're going to be doing that 24 hours a day,
versus if you have a hand water or timer system where you're, you're wet, and then dry and wet
and dry, and they're only hitting that, that hydro neutral state, you know, for a few hours a day.
So you can just imagine that the productivity increases and the yield increases that come along
with maintaining that moisture level 24 hours a day and keeping that bacteria and fungal load
much, much higher. Now, you know, I'm not a microscope guy, but do you, have you had that
experience, Scott? Like, can you verify that? I knew that chipmunk over your shoulder, that was cool.
I know, this guy, he's new here, he's just building a house, he keeps pulling all the mulch
out of my gardens and taking it somewhere. I'm not sure where he's taking it. Yeah. No, that was,
that was well said, man. That was a fantastic description. And that's, you know, this is
probably where I get really stickler, and people don't understand where I'm coming from. But,
you know, I think one of the biggest issues with our community in general is, you got everybody
in the world talking about living soil and saying living soil and saying living soil and saying
bacteria and saying fungi and saying living soil. And it's like, by what measure are we saying these
things? And, you know, some of the most vocal people in the community have never measured these
things. Some of the most vocal businesses that are constantly on podcasts talking about these things
do not measure these things. And so I'm a first and advocate of measuring these things. And,
you know, there's there's nothing more powerful for the analysis of a living soil system than
Dr. Lane Ingham's microscope methods. And we're still kind of in the infancy of people having
an exposure to that, like a genuine exposure. So we're still there's a lot of people that don't
understand those statements. My wife and I have done an absolute horrendous amount of analysis
for many people in the industry of all sizes, shapes, from the smallest to literally some of
the largest on the planet right now. And there are some very clear situations where there are
problems. And I would definitely encourage you that if you're going to do living soil, that you
should measure what is actually living. And, you know, you don't necessarily need to do it with my
lab. But I would definitely recommend you do it with somebody that's doing Dr. Lane's microscope
methods. There's some other businesses that do different types of microscope methods. And we've
actually found little benefit to those. And I think they're actually one of the larger problems
with the industry because they misguide people tremendously. And so I would really strongly
advocate that you find somebody that's gone through Dr. Lane Ingham's coursework and work
out something with them. You know, when I first started doing the microscope analysis for an
entire calendar year, I did free analysis to anybody that would send me a soil sample. And I
did a large population of the community, which helped me become proficient and fast at doing my
trade. And as an offering back to the people, I gave them advice for free for a long time. And so
I'm sure that there's people that are going through the courses now. If you're a person
that's going through these courses now, I strongly advise you to do this because, you know, the
microscope is one of those 10,000 hour things. You need many, many, many repetitions. And I would
encourage those new students to just offer it to people, offer it to people on Instagram. That's
what I did. That's how I got to here. Like my wife and I are actually, you know, working with facilities
all around the world now. We're doing a lot of projects here. We're doing projects internationally
in several countries. And that literally started with offering the microscope for free on Instagram.
And that's how I got here. And so I strongly encourage those that are going through that path.
That was a viable strategy for me. I think it's important to give things back while you're
learning. And I think it's important to have a certain amount of repetitions before you start
charging people. So I'm a tremendous advocate of actually quantifying living soil. And we need
more people that speak about living soil to actually do this type of analysis. So then we can
communicate really quality information that can help people. There's a lot of trends and a lot of
popular things that go on on the internet that are not actually helpful because they're neglecting
this living soil thing. And so exactly what Michael said is the absolute strength of the
Bluemat system is it keeps that moisture in a pocket. And what happens with living organisms is,
you know, you'll have a wax and wane of soil moisture. Like the facility I talked about
earlier, they're on their first harvest of living soil. And they've got a Bluemat digital moisture
meter that measures in millibars. And they might wax and wane from like 50 millibars to 150
millibars, which is a tremendous swing in moisture. And what happens is, you know, from my experience
and from my analysis, the peak performance of a living soil system happens when you keep that
moisture within a range of 100 to 120 millibars on the Bluemat moisture meter or a similar
instrument. And when you get outside of those numbers, so the higher the number, the drier it
is. So 120 is slightly drier than 100. 80 is slightly wetter than 100. Most of the problems
we see with pests and mold that are very persistent are when the gardens are operating between 50 and
80 millibars. I've heard some people say that there's some advice on the internet or on Instagram
saying that you should be operating around 60. This is not good at all. What I try to have
people do is get it to stick around 100 first. That's the first goal. So we're trying to get
around 100 and then slowly dry it out to about 120. If you can keep it in a range of 100 to 120,
knowing that there is some flexibility with that moisture meter, knowing that it's not the most
dynamic meter, knowing that sometimes it'll vary a few points, but nonetheless keeping it somewhere
between 100 and 120, that'll keep the living soil system alive and thriving and working all day long.
And then it also leaves you the space to add feeds on top. So if you come in once or twice a week and
you add a nutrient feed, you're not going to push that system past the point where it's way too moist
so that it's causing problems. So that's my personal preference there, but there are some
limitations to the BlueMap moisture meter. I think it's important that if you have a system,
you have at least one, but you need to know that it's very slow. It's like an hour, two hour process
for this thing to adjust. You have to know that if you leave it in the soil after a week or two,
it might start affecting the moisture. You need to recalibrate it. These are not problems that
can't be overcome, but you just need to be aware of the limitations of the tools you're using.
I like to use a couple different moisture meters. So I also use the BlueLab Pulse.
There's some complaints about that meter, which I agree. There's some issues with it pairing,
but if you turn your phone off, turn the meter on, then turn your phone on, it pairs 100% of the time.
And then the other problem is because it's shooting electronic signal across these, it really
drains on the battery. So I don't even put the cap on mine and I leave the battery out.
One of the growers we worked with that really uses this meter a lot figured out that when he kept the
battery out of it, it maintained accuracy longer. And so what I personally do is I will identify a
certain region with the BlueMap moisture meter that I think is ideal. I will measure the moisture
with the BlueMap meter to see what it is. And then I'll probe the BlueLab Pulse meter in the
vicinity of the BlueMap moisture meter to see how it translates on this in percentage. Like I said,
this meter is not remarkably dynamic. It does waver a little bit, but you just need to know
that it does that. And so what I have people do, like I said, put the BlueMap moisture meter in,
hit the cap on it to see what it is. It reads 110. Perfect. So then hit your BlueLab, go around
it in the vicinity, see what that's translating to percentage, and then you can run through your
building in a couple of minutes. And that way you can go from end to end. I think that's tremendous.
I think another real point, there's little indents here for where you can set this little depth gauge.
The most problems come when you try to bury the whole meter. And so I like to do, you know,
at this level, so you're measuring this far. Dr. Lane Ingham says that the main biological activity
is happening in the top four inches. And so this measures right in that two and a half, three inch
depth. And that seems to be the most effective way. So you just have to find, you know, tools that
work for you. You need to find tools that will help you execute your task. And you need to take
these measurements. If you get one of these meters or really any of them, I like the BlueLab
Pulse because you can run through the building really quick. There's an app on your phone that
will keep a history. So I'm really kind of consistent in the way that I do it. So anytime
I go through my facility or wherever I'm at, I do it in the same order every time. So that when I
look at the history on the app, I can know that I started in the upper left corner. I took four
measurements. I moved to bed two. I took four more measurements. I moved to bed three. I took
four more measurements. And then you can look back in your history and you can see that bar graph
and you can start to see how it's waxing and waning and where those problems are. I think
that's huge. Beautiful. I had a couple questions about at the end of my season, I just do one
full term grow every year in my greenhouse. But then I probably will do like a little crop of
potatoes or something like that because I want to keep things growing in there.
So and then it's going to snow and then I'll be back into the next season. So is this a system
that I can leave out all year long? Am I going to have issues with it? Am I going to have to reset it?
Is it going to freeze? I don't know if this is best for Michael or Scott. Maybe I'd love to hear
from both of you guys. Yeah, what I would say about that, you know, right now I'm sitting here,
I'm at 7,000 feet right now in Colorado. It gets pretty cold in the wintertime. We get a lot of
snow. And, you know, I have a few hoop houses here on my property. You know, there's just
plastic hoop houses. They're unheated. Some of them I'll go through and I'll, you know, on hoop
houses that I'm not going to use season to season or I mean over the winter at all, I'll go through
and I'll pull the system out. But all I'll do is just pull the carrots out. So the main line,
also the supply line, even the blue soap, I can just leave all that in place and I'll just go
through and I'll pull the carrots out. And I'll usually just drain them. You know, I'll open and
drain them and throw them in a bucket and put it in the garage. And that's where they'll sit for
the winter. And then in the springtime I'll go back.
Mike, hold on. Can you start that from the top again?
Yeah. Am I slowing down here?
Yeah, that's much better.
Okay. So again, I was saying, you know, we're at a high altitude here. We're at 7,000 feet. The
winters are cold. You get a lot of snow. Of the, you know, there's about total, you know,
I have about five different kind of hoop houses, you know, just high tunnel style hoop houses around
on this property. And they produce a number of different types of things. And
some of them are just, you know, just summertime crops. Those I'll pull the carrots out,
you know, at the end of harvest time, you know, in the fall. And I'll only remove the carrot.
So I'm going to leave the blue soak in place. You can leave most of the supply line in place.
I like to bring anything that's the silicon in like the three millimeter tubing. I'll just leave
that in the carrot and pull it in. But those, you can just throw all those in an empty bucket. And
I set them in the garage and there they are for the winter. No problem. I do have one
greenhouse here that I keep sealed up and do some gravity feed them throughout the winter. So I keep
the soil alive in that bed. Those I just leave the carrots in. You know, it would take, you know,
it's possible they could freeze. Again, we routinely see, you know, negative 10 degrees
here during the winter time. And they don't freeze. They don't break. I've never had them crack or
anything like that. And in fact, they won't even lose water over the course of the winter. As long
as the beds stay hydrated. You know, I'll still pull them out in the spring and I'll top the
carrots off, but they're basically ready to rock in the springtime. So, you know, a lot of
durability, the blue soak itself, you know, that you really want to have some sort of mulch layer
over. If you're going to, you're going to have it out in direct sun, it's just better to have a
mulch layer over it'll prolong the life dramatically. What is the life of the blue soak, Michael?
Well, you know, it's guaranteed. The manufacturer we have for it guarantees it for a year. If it's
in direct sunlight, you know, because it's originally used for larger,
your kind of more large scale agricultural applications. But if you bury it slightly or
put a mulch layer over it, there's circumstances where it's lasted for 20 years. So it can,
you know, it can last for a very long time outside. And just, you know, again, mulching over it is
really the way to go. I know some people don't like to in the commercial facilities, like there's
some folks that want to stay away from mulch because it's can harbor pathogens and things like
that. But, you know, I think the benefits way out, you know, very much outweigh that. And it,
and in outdoor applications, anytime you can kind of cover it up, you know, it's just going to
protect it from, you know, the only things can really go wrong with it. Like over time, UV can
break it down or we get animals into it. Critters come in like that chipmunk you see running around.
I think he's bitten the hole in some of my eight millimeter silicon lines. And so every now and
then I'll come out and I got a little spray coming out somewhere where some little animal has
taken a bite out of it. I actually had last year, I had these ground squirrel or these gophers,
and they were digging all kinds of holes in one of the hoop houses. And I came out one day and it had
bitten through the eight millimeter silicon line, the superflex, and dragged it down into its hole.
It was running. So it was like this perfect, you know, instant karma of you cut my line, but
bled out your abode there. So, you know, there's some susceptibility to animals and pests like that,
that can happen. But covering it up, like mulching the busuk is the best way to deal with that.
And anytime when you're outdoors, if you can use the, you know, poly tubing versus the silicon
tubing, that's usually going to last longer there. I know we were talking about, you know,
just season to season what's required and the length of the carrot, you know, these carrots
last forever. I'll tell people often that, you know, they usually, the only time they break is
when you, you know, you drop them on the tile floor or something. I've done that a couple of
times. But other than that, you know, we don't, the carrots themselves, we don't ever get complaints
about those things breaking. I mean, these are, these are still carrots from my first system in
2014. I just take a little nylon brush and clean them periodically, but you can see like the top's
all dirty. I just keep them with me and taking them and setting them up. And, you know, there
are some consumables. Some of this tube here is still from my original system. As long as you
don't run a bunch of nutrients in there, you're pretty good. A little, I don't want to get too
far away from the mulch layer, but I will just say, if you're doing living soil and you're not
using a mulch layer, you're, you're creating more problems for yourself. And you're also
missing out on the biggest advantage of an entire living soil system. A lot of times we do
conversions of people that are cocoa growers or some other style of grower. And then, and then we
are trying to teach them living soil. And usually in that first harvest, I won't put a mulch or
cover crop because those type of growers need to see and interact with the soil. And so a lot of
times I leave that out on the first harvest, only the first harvest, because I want them to be able
to see the soil. And what ends up happening is they'll usually most often, they'll come to their
own realization that the soil dries out really fast. And then they're actually looking forward
to the mulch layer on the second harvest. So it makes it easier to convert them into that process.
But what ends up happening when you don't have a mulch layer is because you're not naturally
trapping the moisture like nature does, you're evaporating the moisture from the top few inches
of the soil. What that leads to is you having to put more water more often. What also ends up
happening is you're constantly putting that top four inches of organisms to sleep. And so you're
missing out on hours of the day where they should be working. And what ends up happening is you see
that the soil surface is drying out, and that's your dictate, that's what directs you to add more
water. What ends up happening is you actually overwater. And so you have more of a propensity
to overwater, and you also are missing out on organisms. So what the net effect usually is, is
kind of like low level underlying powdery mildew or thrips is really common. Thrips are,
in my experience, always correlated with low biological activity in the soil. So there's not
fast enough nutrient delivery for those plants, and the thrips feed on whatever happens in that
transaction. And so you're really missing out a lot. Now on the other side, the only thing worse
than not having a mulch layer is having too thick of a mulch layer. So that will trap too much
moisture, it'll make things anaerobic, and you'll have again low level persistent powdery mildew and
pest issues. So is like an inch a good kind of rule of thumb, or you don't want to go any thicker
than an inch or something like that? It's hard to say the thickness. I go for a look, and so
what I think is important is we'll take our straw, and the straw will come in a flake, and it's all
usually pressed in the same direction. Everything's going the same way, right? And so you want to kind
of flock that out so they separate, and then I'm really careful, like that old game with the little
sticks, you would pull them out, whatever that game is. Pickup sticks. There you go. Yeah.
So you're after... I still play it with my kids. Yeah. So you're after pickup sticks, and you know,
what I try to use is the analogy of like, you know, if you're making a pizza, usually people
will sprinkle cheese until it completely covers the pizza, but that's too much for a mulch layer.
You want to see little gaps where you can see a little bit of soil, and so if you flock out that
clay or flock out the straw, and you get them to do the the pickup sticks thing, then it will be
kind of taller, you know, but it's because they're all overlapping on each other, because
what we're actually after with the mulch layer is we want to trap moisture, but at the same time,
we want to allow oxygen diffusion, and you know, so the benefit of a mulch layer is if there's
excessive moisture on the soil surface, it'll actually wick up into the mulch layer,
and it'll pull it away from that surface and hold it in the mulch layer, and it starts to do like
the little rain forest effect. So I try to have people, you know, pick up sticks, it sprinkle it
around, spread it everywhere, but you shouldn't be able to see a little bit of your soil surface.
You shouldn't be completely matting it out anywhere. Yeah, those are all really good tips,
I think. Yeah, yeah. What about rice holes? Is that a thumbs up or thumbs down about rice holes?
I, most of my decisions go for regulated facilities, and the thing about rice is
rice is grown in an anaerobic environment, and so based on what I believe to be true about soil
systems, if you're suffocating the soil with moisture to keep weeds down, you are also
absolutely putting yourself into a pest and disease. So I feel there's a tremendous amount
of pesticides and chemicals. I don't want my system in rice holes, so I don't, I haven't
personally used them in a long time, probably since 2014 or 2015, once we started really getting
into the tough states like Nevada. We worked with several facilities in Nevada, and they had a hell
of a time navigating that regulation because it was significantly more strict in Colorado,
Washington, and Oregon, and California is now following suit. So there's a lot of issues with
heavy metals in California, and it's kind of a gamble with the rice holes. So what we substitute
instead for rice holes is aspen shavings or even pine shavings. By the time it goes through the
process to get shaved, baled, and shipped to the store, any volatile compounds that are going to be
antimicrobial I think are really gone. So a lot of times you can get those at the same feed supply
store that you're getting your straw, so you can get, usually it's aspen wood shavings,
and those aren't farmed in the typical sense, so they're not going to be as pesticide-ridden as
something like a rice hole. The obstacle with the rice shave, or excuse me, with the wood shavings
is that they are very flat and wide, and so if you put too many down, it's really easy to compact it.
And so what I try to do is we put the straw down first to get the pickup sticks effect,
to separate the aspen chips, and then you go through and sprinkle. So the straw is going to be
a little bit less than cheese on the pizza, and the aspen shavings is going to be a little bit more
than pepperoni. So what about... I like the pizza analogy. Well you know exactly what I'm talking
about. I know, yeah. When a metaphor works well. That's my love language, metaphors. So what about dropping
leaves down on top of that surface? Are we going to get any benefits from putting a dead leaf or a
leaf that we've taken off on top of that by any means? Yeah, totally. The one consideration there is
how many leaves are you pulling off at once? And so typically nature drops a few at a time, and
they slowly trickle down. You know, if we're doing like a one-note, it falls into that same group of
what Michael said about, you know, worrying about pathogens being harbored in the straw. If you have
an actual healthy living soil, pathogens should be the least of your concern, because the natural
system is handling them. That's what it's for. You know, nature's first and inherent goal is
health. You know, like it's every strategy is towards health. Obviously there's death and decay,
but all the strategies are for health. And so if you have a true living soil, and you're
quantifying these things to see that you are farming in a way that is growing and supporting
the beneficial aerobic organisms, you shouldn't be worried about any sort of pathogens and things
like that. And so the same people that don't want to do a mulch layer also don't want to do,
you know, sprinkle the biomass down there. But I think if you take that strategy, you're really
missing a lot of the benefits. Like some of our commercial facilities, like there are
obstacles with straw bales. Like, you know, our kind of strategy is, you know, bring a straw bale in one
time, quantify it through lab testing to make sure you're not bringing in pesticides or other
things that are going to cause a test fail, spread that out, and then work towards using your stems
and sticks and leaves as a mulch layer from then on. Or if you bring in a straw each time, then
you got to re-qualify it, personally, to be, you know, really safe. You don't want to take out a
many thousand dollar harvest with a $12 hay bale, you know.
Yeah, the structure that it provides, I think, is really important for a lot of the life. Like,
with, in the circumstances I've seen when you use that straw mulch layer, it, with the blue
soak in between the soil surface and the mulch layer, it seems to speed up the kind of composting
process, too, of the, you know, the oat straw or wheat straw, whatever you're using. And it'll
break it down so that, you know, in a, you know, like an outdoor crop, you maybe put, you know,
three, four inches of straw on top of the blue soak. And by the end of the season, there'll be
an inch, sometimes, of, you know, worm castings and fresh compost that's now deposited on top
of the blue soak. And I think that's also where you see the, that root wrapping of the blue soak
is the structure that is provided by the decomposing mulch layers as well, because
that kind of gives, gives some, gives the structure for the roots to form. Yeah, very much. Just one
more consideration. I know, you know, we're kind of getting off topic, but I think it's still
important. Mulch is important, though. Scott, there's no one topic. We can go wherever we want.
I think, you know, my preferred preference on the mulch layer is do a little bit more often.
Like, if we truly live to nature, nature provides balance in small amounts. And so, you know, I would
tend to do a lighter mulch layer. And when you see it start to decompose down, add a little bit more.
When you see it start to decompose down, add a little more. That'd be my only, you know, slight
adjustment. But yeah, there's, you know, what you're describing is what Dr. Lane talks about in the
snow time of year. When snow is sitting on the soil surface, there's a free layer of water
that connects the soil surface and the mulch layer. That quantity of moisture is the
ideal rate for high biological activity. And the greatest rates of decomposition actually happen
during that time of year. And so, by putting the mulch layer with the blue soak hose under it,
you're facilitating that. You're facilitating that very well. That's a great description. Yeah.
It's interesting because I think that's counterintuitive to what most people would
think is happening when it snows, right? Like that there's actually a lot of activity going on.
Sorry about that. Yeah. Yeah. And that should be the goal. You know, you should be able to
do everything in your power to increase the life in the soil that we keep saying. You know,
we keep saying living soil. Living soil needs food. Those organisms need a hospitable environment.
They need roots. They need a mulch layer. They need carbon. You know, Masanobu was dead on with
that straw. Which, by the way, we use a, we like to use something called a tri-bale. They seem to
call it different in each little region. Sometimes they call it three-way bale. Up here in Grass
Valley, they call it tri-grain. But nonetheless, it's normally like a barley, oats, and rye or
something along those lines. But it actually has the seed head in it. And when you spread out that
mulch layer and you water it, you get a really good grass crop. I think using grasses is extremely
underestimated in living soil for starting a system. I started using them early on because
I believed what Dr. Lane talked about, about succession. And it's really hard to go from
parking lot to old growth forest in a 24-hour period. And so by thinking in succession,
you know, and by putting down a mulch layer, inoculating with beneficial organisms,
allowing some early successional plants to establish, you're going to move through that
transition much faster. So I'm definitely a big advocate of getting the straw mulch with the
seed heads in it because you get a, you know, you get a cover crop in seven to ten days. And I just
took a photo, maybe I'll upload it to the Instagram, but I actually buried some pots in some new
containers because I wanted to see where the roots went. So I buried a pot in my soil so I could pull
it out and kind of have like an example. Is that on your phone? Yeah. Do you want to text me and I'll
show it while you talk about it? I did that last year. I put a seven gallon mom into a 30 gallon
pot and I was blown away. The roots went everywhere. It completely grew through the fabric.
It's pretty cool. Yeah, here you go. I'll text it to you right now. So while you're doing that,
there have been a whole lot of questions that I've been trying to keep up with.
Let's fire away. Do some rapid fire question answering. What's the smallest pot you can do a
mulch layer in? Yeah, so all right. So you're on the, all right. God, dude, you have the agenda
and you're monitoring the chat and you're like the quiet guy in this conversation. All right.
So Chris Guerrero asks, whatever you're using, three gallon pots, there's not much room for a
mulch layer. What should you use as mulch? And then the second mulch question was a strong style
organics that I remember Suzanne Wainwright, the bug lady advising against mulching with leaves.
She's very skeptical with this, with all this living soil stuff though.
Yeah. She's also the most chemi person in our living soil industry. Bless her heart. She's a
tremendous asset, but like, she's like a Syngenta employee or some shit. So of course she's going
to be against what we do, but you know, I don't know. Bless her heart. I didn't mean to go off,
but you know, she has a lot of, she has a lot of advice for something she has no experience in.
She works in chemical greenhouses. Stick to the bugs. Let me talk about mulch.
I love it. Shots fired. No, not shots fired. Like just real talk. You know, you're going to get it
from me. Like, I don't, I lack the filter in my brain. I hit it on the ground too many times.
I guess my first question. That's what I love about you. And I'm like your handler. Who's like,
you look, Hey, I'll play along, man. We're trying to get those clicks, you know, I'll play along.
But my first question to the question is why are we doing living soil in a three gallon pot?
And, and what, you know, that's not something I would personally do. So if there's like an extreme
size, if there's a, you know, if you're talking about a four by four tent, okay. Maybe a three
gallon makes sense for living soil. That doesn't make any sense to me.
So actually, so then what's the minimum pot size that makes it something you do?
Based on my experience, using a microscope analysis of quantifying a tremendous amount
of cultivation space and context and situations, I advise people to go a 30 gallon pot or larger.
The downside of the 30 gallon pot is if you're doing a indoor, you can really only get four 30
gallon pots under a traditional four by four square. And so then you're better off going to
a bed anyways. You know, that's why in my own, in my own personal indoor, I put those little narrow
beds. So I had 20 by 40 beds and I had two of them that allowed me to kind of keep things separate,
but it's, it's extremely difficult to actually maintain high and active biological activity in
anything smaller than like a 30 gallon pot. I would say with the living soil liner, you can
maybe go a little bit smaller than that. But, you know, like I said, like, you know,
how do they get stuff from China to here? Do they put 12 boxes onto a fishing boat and send
10,000 fishing boats across the sea? Or do they send one giant ass boat with a thousand shipping
containers? I have the answer. What do they do? They do one big boat. Thank you. Cause why?
Stability? Why? Resiliency? Why? Come on, man. What does nature do? One container for the whole
shit. I got one container for the whole planet. One container, one container kids.
Just quickly, uh, Guillermo Bechetta asks, has anyone tried rock mulching? I use it for my desert
plants and works pretty well. I guess I should actually answer the dude's question. Cause I
kind of shit on the container size. So what I would do is that's a good, that's a good situation
for rice holes, but again, slightly more than pepperoni. You need a mulch layer. So do a
combination of the Aspen wood chips, or, um, if you're in that small of container, you know,
stay that small. So if you go to the, any, any, any major pet store, they'll have these little hay bales
and they're, um, usually I think Timothy grass, or sometimes you'll see a straw, like our tractor
supply has these bales made by Stanley. They come in a big green bag and it's chopped hay and
they're pieces about this long. That's what I would get. But yeah. So let me just cut to your,
uh, uh, wait, so wait, hold on the first. All right. So there's the first one. Yeah. So this
is some brand new pots. Um, these are 200 gallon pots and I took a five gallon or excuse me, uh,
um, uh, three gallon plastic pot and I buried it so that I could pull it out and examine it.
Um, I should have wrote down the dates in my own garden. I get really casual because everything's
so serious at our work. I really shoot from the hip on my own personal garden, but I believe this
was about 10 days in, it was definitely less than 14. So within two weeks, you know, that's, it's
hard to tell what the perspective, but that's the depth of a three gallon pot. So that's like,
you know, eight, nine inches, you have grass sticking up above the mulch layer. That's less
than eight inches tall, but I mean, it's very successfully penetrated at least the depth of
the pot. And so my strategy, my personal strategy is, you know, if you make a compost extract,
those organisms will travel as far as the root, as the water does when you apply it to the soil,
because those organisms aren't excited. And so you can apply an extract to the soil. They,
the organisms will infiltrate very deep and then they spread through the root system.
And so if we are trying to establish a healthy system and we're trying to do it rapidly,
we need rapid roots. So by using a grass cover crop, you'll get five, six, eight inch deep roots
within a matter of seven to 14 days. You're inoculating, it's traveling the depth of the
roots. Those roots are then pulling the organisms down. And when you do like a, from a day one
to day 40, that's the fastest way to fully inhabit or inoculate a soil system in my experience.
All right. So let me get to, so in addition to the question that Walter sent,
which I emailed you guys, he said, my blue mat is going from 80 MB to 160 MB and I can't get it
figured out. I think it's what you said about competing carrots and drippers. And he said,
I want to know if you set the hanging drop at a hundred MB, what MB would the first triangle
setting below that water at and the second triangle settings, I'm sure that varies by medium,
but question mark. And then what do you want to start with that? And then I'll do his long,
the question I emailed you guys. I think, let Michael answer that one. I got to step out and
use the restroom real quick. I'll let, I'll turn the volume up so I can hear you, but mute me so
you can't hear me. We want to go to the bathroom with you. Stay mic'd up. All right, Michael.
Yeah. So, so recall the first part of his question there was about just dialing in the carrots and
how to maintain the, the, you know, kind of moisture levels that the moisture meter is,
is indicating. So, you know, because Walter's question, I think, hi Walter,
I think you were emailing me earlier today, by the way. The, you know, our moisture meters are
tensiometers that give readings in negative millibars. So, you know, tensiometers are
instruments that measure pressure units and millibars are units of pressure. So it's like
a one bar is like one, I guess, one atmosphere, basically it's like 15 PSI. And so a millibar is
a smaller version of that. So millibars units of pressure and, and they're in negative because
we're when the soil dries out, it creates that negative tension inside the moisture meter. So
you have this negative pressure reading and are, you know, the number that we hear most often from,
from our kind of living soil consultants and enthusiasts are 100 millibars. And, you know,
just from personal experience, I think that's a great number. So we encourage folks to keep
their systems right around that, that a hundred millibar level, I always say plus or minus 20.
So if you're swinging between 80 and 120 millibars,
you know, that's a, it's not a big swing. It's really not a big swing. And it's from my,
you know, my impression that's, that's okay. That's a good, that's a good range to shoot for.
So the process with blue mats and maintaining that specific level, generally the general
instructions are, you know, you take your container and you would hand water the container and get it
to the moisture level that you want to maintain. And you can, you know, verify that with a moisture
meter. You know, I recommend the tensiometers because that's what we tend to use. But
there are, there are other ones out there I don't have a lot of experience with.
And so if you get your soil to the moisture level that you want it at, say it's a hundred millibars
and it's, and it's really a hundred millibars, not just like the one little place you measure,
because that's something we have to remember that when you're, when you're bringing it up,
up to moisture level, you want to water very evenly. And then you want to let it sit for
probably a few hours to get that capillary action happening where you're, you're drawing the water
out very evenly throughout the soil. And if you, once you kind of achieve that level and have,
you know, verified it with the moisture meter or just by, you know, your own experience or,
you know, touch or kind of a field assessment kind of methods, then you'll, you'll put the
carrot in the soil. You'll disconnect the carrot from any kind of soaker hose or distribution
drippers. So you're just working with the little three millimeter line that's coming out of the
end. And then you'll want to twist that brown cap and open it right up and just like, just open it
all the way up and that'll let it purge any air that's inside of it. If it's a brand new carrot
straight out of the box, I'd actually take that silicon line and just sort of pull it forward and
back a little bit. Because sometimes it can get pinched underneath there when it comes straight
from the factory. And, and then you have a nice clear line of water jetting out of there. You
want to just dial it back. You want to, you know, just tighten, tighten that brown screw on the top
until the water starts to just sort of drip, drip, drip. And then it'll become a hanging drip
where it's just sort of one little droplet of water is hanging on the edge of the tube. And then
from there, yeah, you'll take it two triangles back, which means there's these little triangle
marks on the, on the cap. Then you'll, you'll tighten it two more of those triangles. And at
that point the water will be off. So it's set that way so that as the soil dries down from there,
then the water comes on. And basically the idea is, you know, with some minor adjustments, it's
going to hold that moisture level in perpetuity that it's at when you dial it in. Great explanation.
Did you guys catch that? Yeah, sure. It sounded a little choppy, so I wasn't sure.
I think that handles a question that popped up in chat, which was how easy are they to set up, or
how do you set them up? And they kind of broke down the main thing of how to get it adjusted there,
which is, handles a question there, I think. What, what might be, yeah, sorry, I just, I had a thought
about the question. No, just the other, the other part of setting them up, just...
Michael, you're breaking up a little bit. So Scott, why don't you give us your thought while
Michael's internet connection stops being uppity.
One thing I see that's very common is people try to make the Blue Mat system too dynamic. It's a
very slow moving system, you know, compared to something where you flick the switch on and it
turns on. And so I think the best advice is what Michael is saying is slowly bring the soil up to
moisture, allow that water to infiltrate, and set your carrots. I think what's, what's not talked
about enough is how you can just create your own headaches. So when I'm instructing on how to
install them, I encourage people to leave them be. And so, you know, bring the soil up to moisture,
allow the water to infiltrate, set your carrots, and then don't touch them for two or three days.
Literally, don't touch them at all for two or three days. Let it become extremely apparent
what's too wet and what's too dry. Obviously, if day, you know, obviously the next day you have
some plants that are drooping, you know, use common sense and say that, you know, I don't want my
plants to die over it. But the number one problem is people try to tweak it too much. And you really
do need to allow 24 hours for that system to go through its ebb and flow. You need to allow the
moisture to start actually imparting, you know, on that carrot itself so that you can not drive
yourself crazy. I did it myself on my first system is I was moving it too fast and, you know, really
trying to let the brown cap be a volume knob. I really encourage you to not use the brown cap as
a volume knob, because, you know, talking about this thing here, you're talking about a little
tiny plunger. You probably can't see it in there, but there's a little white deal in it. And it just
through basic water pressure is pinching this three millimeter tube. And so you want to make
sure that you're set directly on top of the fulcrum to get the full effect of that
pressure on the carrot. And if you start to tweak that brown cap, you're getting outside of what is
the strongest setting for that system. And so people try to use that as a volume knob and they
say, oh, I want more moisture and they start dialing it back. If you try to increase the moisture to the
soil by using that brown cap as a volume knob, that's the easiest way to flood your spot. Easiest
way to flood your spot, hands down. And so if you're trying to get more moisture out of it,
I encourage people to rehydrate the soil, bring it up to the moisture that you want,
let the water infiltrate like Michael was saying, and then reset the carrot as he described. If you
want it to be drier, you can tighten that cap maybe a half a carrot, maybe one carrot more.
More than that, I wouldn't mess with it because like Michael was saying, it's pretty
set it and forget it and stay. So you want that stay point to be perfectly on top of that
teeter-totter, so to speak. Once you start wavering outside of that,
you're talking about a few psi of pressure. It's a very, very, very low pressure system.
And so you really want to have the most pressure exactly on it. And I think that could save a lot
of the issues that people have. Absolutely. Yeah, absolutely. You really hit the nail on the
head with that one because that's what we see all the time. People are just really inconsistent and
will want to crank it up and down and make it react in real time. But it's like you're dealing
with a different paradigm of how to water and it's over time and it's slow and it's continuous.
And we're not like trying to water a whole greenhouse in 15 minutes. We're talking about
maintaining a moisture level over a 24-hour period. So yeah, that's what we recommend is
those little marks between the triangles, those little up and down hash marks. I always say two
or three of those hash marks is really how much you want. You're doing small adjustments. Unless
something's really out of whack and it's just gushing water and you can tell, then you're going
to want to tune it back. Another real tip that people find super helpful to learn through
experience, when you have any kind of blue soak system where you have a carrot on either end and
they're both feeding into the same piece of blue soak, sometimes we'll just do like in a four by
four, you might do one carrot in the middle and then spiral the blue soak out and then another
carrot at the outside. So you have two moisture points. Sometimes those beds will get too wet.
You'll walk through the greenhouse, you'll see this bed's obviously too wet and then it's wet
right now and I can tell that the blue soak's putting out a bunch of water. But I don't know,
I know I need to turn it down. The tip there is to disconnect both carrots from the piece
of blue soak and one of those is going to be running and the other one very well might not be
and that one's set fine. So don't twist both of them. Identify which carrot is the one that's
running by disconnecting it from the three mil to blue soak connector. See that water shooting out
and then that's the one you want to crank back and tighten up. And that, well you know, figuring that
little trick out saved me some headaches and I know it has other people as well. So that's in
those double manifold beds you would be doing the same thing. Yeah, that's great advice. Yeah and
it takes time to dial in the system, you know. But once you get them, you know, the idea is you're
just maintaining them and you don't shut the system off. You know, don't like, oh things are too wet,
I'm gonna turn it off for a day or two and let things dry down. It's like no, that's not the way
to approach it. The way to approach it is to adjust the dials because you're never going to get on top
of it if you treat it like a traditional drip irrigation system. Yep, exactly. Okay, so Walter
is actually joining us right now to elaborate on his many, many questions. So let's wait for his
audio to connect. Walter, can you, ah there you are. There's, we're connecting to his audio and
Walter, what's up? Hey Walter. Hey, how are you guys? So where are you? You look like you're in a golf cart.
Yeah, I know it's a Dodge truck. I had to pull over and get better service.
Hopefully it's good enough. Yeah, we can hear you. So what's, you had a whole bunch of questions and
I was like, why don't we just have him ask them instead of me trying to read like his 16 questions.
So you use both Blue Mat and Grassroots? Yeah, it sounded like, you know, a great thing to use.
You know, I just got a small hobby thing going and it's at a friend of mine house. He's a
cancer, his cancer is in control by a pill, but he really likes the strong cultivars. That's really
what does it for him. So I was like, well, I'll set this up here. And you know, he's, he taught me a lot
about how to fly fish. So I kind of owe a lot to him in life. So I just figured I'd help him out,
get something that was clean and great for him, you know, and he can, he's really a drawl with,
you know, the little bit he has to do because between those systems, you don't have to do much, a little bit of
top dressing, right? I mean, it's mostly organic soil. So I like the idea of the moisture liner,
because I noticed the same things about, you know, the drying of normal fabric plots in my experience
in the past. And I like the idea of the Blue Mats, because, you know, maintaining, I think a lot of
people just like the dump stuff on things, you know, a crew brings that out. A lot of people look
to like if they can fix a leak in the radiator with a bottle, it's not going to work. You know,
you got to understand what's wrong with the system. So I like the freedom these systems give you to,
you know, screw things up less by allowing like nature to do its work. So I thought I'd try them
out. And, you know, I don't want to be too anal about expecting it to keep it at like 100 millibars,
but, you know, it's, it's, it was interesting what Scott was saying earlier about the redundancy of
pieces and how the watering sets off the other sensors. So some, so I looked at other people's
videos, eliminate the distribution drippers and just go straight from a carrot to the blue
silk tape. So it's what's neat about the system is it's really customizable for your experience
and what you want. And sometimes it's hard for somebody trying something new to just, you know,
they just want to know what's going to make it easy for hope you understand what's going on.
So I like that a lot.
And so, so what was, cause you had a question that you emailed me,
did they answer the question or do you still have another?
Yeah, well, I guess my question is probably too vague because the answer would be, it depends
on your soil medium. But I was like, you know, I saw some people recommended one, one triangle
down and one or two triangles down from the hanging drop when you achieve the hanging drop by
reducing the screw cap on the top of the carrot. And in my experience, it seems to go to like 120
to 160 and you're, I'm not always there. So I can't watch it water, but I'll come back the next
day. It's still at 160. So I figured it watered because it should be dry here, but I'm, I'm like,
it's not maintaining it at a little bit higher like that, you know, 80 to 120 would be my
preference. So I think I just like the people who said, take some more time to do smaller
micro adjustments and give it more watering, but just spend more time with it.
Yeah. One thing, probably the easiest way, it gets really hard to know what's the right moisture
and where the problems are, especially like you said, Walter, you're not there,
which is pretty much my existence. I'm not. Yep. I have to show up. I have to figure it out.
By far the easiest way to figure it out is get yourself a pack of yellow sticky cards.
Don't go to the, don't get the shitty ones from the hydro that fold that are like $27 for three,
get these on Amazon from Olson products and get a little picnic fork or something and hold it down
close to the soil. This is two sided, so you can pull one side off and let it run for a week or two,
pull the other side off and let it run for a week or two and use the same card.
And so I don't know how big of a space you're running, but I would set these near the other
carrots or where the carrots are at, or in the corners of the bed or in some sort of grid or
whatever you got going. When we do a large commercial facility with beds, I put one in
each four by four, and then I'll put them this way and then I'll face them towards the aisleways. So
when you walk down, you can look and you can see them. And what I would do is I would put these
in your space in some sort of grid pattern near the carrots. And if the carrot is too wet, or one
of them is adding too much moisture, that card will get filled with gnats. Gnats are the indication
that you have anaerobic decomposition on your soil surface. And so they're kind of like the
gatekeeper to all the problems. And so a lot of times it gets hard to determine which carrot is
set correctly, which carrot is adding too much moisture. And that way you can know when you walk
in immediately, oh shit, that back corner is the problem. And that works in a greenhouse, that
works in an indoor, it works pretty much everywhere I've tried it. Because it gets really hard to tell
like what is the right moisture and you're screwing around with the bloom out moisture
meter, it's really slow, you're plunging big old holes in the soil trying to get it to work anyways.
You can set that bloom out moisture meter in the center of the bed, but what does that
mean about the corner? And it gets hard to water around it without ruining that meter.
So if you're going to leave the meter in, put a cap over it, some sort of dish or cup or something
to protect it so you don't kill the meter. But that's what I would do. I would set up some
yellow cards and slowly add the moisture. It sounds like if you're all the way at 160 millibars,
I would probably just, you know, start over. And so add some more moisture, wait an hour or two,
let it really infiltrate down in. If you've got the nine inch carrots, definitely wait a couple
hours. If you've got the shorter carrots within an hour or two, it should be pretty good. And then
just reset them. And, you know, come back in a couple days and see if you've got black gnats
filling all over the card. The gnats seem to have a life cycle of like three to four days,
something like that. So usually by the time you see them, three to four days ago is when the
problem started. And so you can kind of backtrack on the calendar and say, you know, that's the day
I watered, that's the day I adjusted them. And you can kind of use it as an indicator of what's going on.
And with too much mulch, you're going to get gnats regardless of what your soil moisture is. So that's
one of the things, like you said, about the spaghetti sticks, or I forget exactly how you put
it, because you create, you're going to create a column of moisture at the top that's misleading
about what's going on below to you. So no, obviously I've experienced that before. There's
situations like with certain mediums, you peat or you top dress with kelp, you're probably going to
get a little bloom of gnats. So in one experience, I have fresh soil and goats like two
properties over. So it's, I appreciate that because that's a good tip. In my situation, I'm still
trying to calibrate them while I deal with the gnats. But you know, they don't, they're not the
end of the world. But I like what you said about even just using them as an indicator without the
cart because I can see, yeah. Thank you. You can immediately tell what's happened, you know.
We come and go to the facilities we work with. So within an hour or two, I've got to really
diagnose what's gone on, what the conditions are. Because growers will only ever give you like 10,
20% of what actually happened. So you have to like, you know, you're in a position where you
need to show up and kind of analyze, you know, what's happening. And this is by far been the
most effective method, in my opinion. You know, do that. Thank you. Wait, but by Scott, by what
you just said, are you saying like, they'll tell you some of this stuff that they forgot to do,
or like did wrong, but like won't cut, like won't fess up to the fact that like they forgot to water
anything yesterday or? I don't necessarily mean it's, I don't think it's necessarily coming from
a place of being deceitful. It's just a tendency. You do so many things on autopilot, it's hard to
recall them, especially if we're dabbed out while we're working. We lose track of calendar time.
Like I said, as I am right now. Yeah. I mean, I've legitimately hit my head on the ground a lot
of times with all my action sports activities and dumb shit I like to do. And so I do have a hard
time with linear time and how many days ago something happened. So I have to write everything
down and keep track of it. So I don't think it's, I don't think it's necessarily being deceitful, but
you know, we definitely, in my experience, I get maybe 10 to 20% of what actually happened
from the cultivator. That's why I'm so, I don't write or measure anything in my own garden,
because I have to train myself to identify things visually. So I don't do any microscope and
work in my own garden. Sarah will do it periodically just to make sure I'm not screwing up.
But I purposely use my own garden as like a visual training facility. So I can try to dissect things
or see when changes have happened based on, you know, not using the traditional tools that I do
of analysis. I love that you're using like some Mr. Miyagi style training before the actual fight.
I come, I come from a sports background. I played high level sports as a kid.
My sister and I used to coach a high level sports team. We sent a bunch of kids to NCAA schools
that set records. And so I come from a sports background. What, what sport? Girl's softball
is what I used to coach my sister. We had some kids go to high level D1 schools and set records.
So we took that pretty seriously. And then I come from a NASCAR family too. I have two cousins
that are NASCAR crew chiefs, which is a lot of repetition, a lot of practice, a lot of testing,
a lot of changing your environment, quantifying the variation, going back out on the track again,
make a small change. So I come from a background of repetition, refining, repetition,
refining, repetition, refining, and not settling for anything less than first place.
All right. So Tremon OG a little while ago asked, would you recommend a blue
soak or regular blue mat for a 30 gallon, 30 gallons in a two by two footprint?
So that's a gravity situation. I'm not the expert on the gravity feed,
but I think in the gravity feed, you want the regular drippers, right? Michael?
Well, it just depends on your head pressure. So, I mean,
it was two 30 gallon pots in a tent. Is that what he said?
I think so. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. 30 gallon, I assume pot in a two by two footprint.
In a two by two footprint. Okay. Yeah. You're going to go either way with that one. You probably,
if you're going to go grab, so that's something about the blue soak is it requires
a slightly more pressure than the drippers do or use nothing at all. So what we've kind of found is
you really want to hit like hit about two PSI for the tape, for the blue soak.
And you guys figure out pressure with gravity systems. You take the head, how vertically high
the reservoir is, and you divide that by 2.31. And that's going to give you your PSI. So, you know,
if you have, you know, say, you know, you have a six foot of head, you know, you take six,
you know, say, you know, you have a six foot of head, you know, you take six, divide that by 2.31.
And that's going to give you like two and a half, 2.6 PSI. So, you know, six feet of head is going
to be two and a half PSI. So I like to see at least like, you know, like around five feet ahead
for if we're going to do a gravity system with blue soak. So if he can achieve that, you know,
and again, he didn't mention if he was doing a gravity system or if he was doing a pressurized
system. So he could easily run that off a hose bib too, you know, if it's there, if he wants to.
Tremon, can you clarify? I'll wait for a text.
But the other option, you know, again, with two pots, you know, you could do,
I mean, you're looking at like kind of maybe the difference is like two or four carats per pot.
You know, your price difference isn't really gonna be that much different. You might,
you're just dealing with two pots. It's okay to have four carats. So I would probably just go
with some distribution drippers. You could do one, one little method we might do for that is
a big, a long carrot right in the center of the pot near the stem of the plant. And then a five
inch carrot around the outside with like a string of maybe say five or so distribution drippers,
kind of watering the outside. And, you know, so then you have the five inch on the outside and
the nine inch on the middle. And that sort of mimics that inverse pyramid shape that
the root structure tends to make. So you're looking at the kind of areas where the roots are
in two different places. So you can have a carrot, the long carrot right near the stalk,
that's just dripping straight out of the carrot, right on the, near the base of the plant. And
then have a five inch carrot on the outside with a string of distribution drippers, keeping the
kind of outer edge wet, you know, again with two, with just two 30 gallon pots.
So Truman said there's one 30 gallon pot and yeah, it would be gravity.
I'd go, I'd go distribution drippers.
Yeah. What I like to really keep, like I said, I keep things really simple.
In a 30 gallon pot, if you're using one of the Living Soil line pots from Tyler,
I would actually even keep it really simple and do like one. So I would have your gravity carrots,
like if this is your center stalk, this is around the edge of the pot, I would bring in the carrot
a little bit and then I would run the drippers all the way around, keeping really mindful that this
end carrot gets close to the carrot again. And what, what's really missed a lot in the
Bluemats is the distance between the first dripper and the carrot. I actually make a
little depth gauge. So I think it's supposed to be eight to 10 centimeters or something, Michael,
I think. Yeah. Yeah. It's like, you know, I have four inches is usually about, yeah,
about what I go for, but. Three to four inches. So I think this is like three and an eighth inches.
And what I'll do is when you're setting up the carrots, you pull up the,
you pull up the tube and push it up against it and then pull the carrot back or pull the tube back
and then set it like that. Oh, nice. Then you get the perfect depth every time. Yeah. If,
if the distance between the end of the tube and the carrot is too far, it messes with the
responsiveness of the carrot. If it's too close, I think it affects it as well. And I think
consistency is really important. And so I go through with a little depth gauge and I set them
all exactly. And then as a side note, Scott, that, that what you were just doing there,
what you were just doing there is a really effective way of, of preventing animals from
biting your three millimeter line. So if you take, if you take some of that superflex and
actually put it over the top of the three millimeter, that way the small like rodents
and stuff that might nibble on that three millimeter or, you know, somewhat forked by it.
But you're completely right about just using one five inch carrot and a string of distribution
drippers and keeping all those positions equidistant. If you're in the non-living soil pot,
I don't think it's going to be my... Can I suggest? Sorry? Go ahead, Walter.
Oh, I was going to say, I love to see a bifurcated connector or a Y. So you, you have a carrot,
it goes to a Y or a carrot to an emitter to water that carrot, right? So it has a sensor and then a
Y coming off tubing there. So you can run two drippers from one, two emitters or three in this
case, or just two from one carrot. And so with that last question, a 30 gallon pot, you could
have one carrot with a series of Ys, then the one carrot is, you know, they're not that expensive,
but just for the sake of simplicity, you could have a carrot and then bifurcated connectors
going to drippers as much as you want. So you don't necessarily have to go in a ring and include
as many drippers. Cause you could do that. Sure. Yeah. You could do something like that. And we
have all those fittings. We have like every kind of angle or multi-pronged three millimeter,
eight millimeter, quarter inch fitting. Bifurcated connectors, right? To bring two lines together.
Yeah. I don't think I would advocate that. It's a simplicity thing really.
You're talking about water tension or surface tension or capillary action. And so by putting
a Y after that, I don't have the scientific degree to be able to calculate that. But I do know
if all you do, like I've gotten to help people in the flight, if this distance isn't
into spec of what Bluemat says, it runs like shit. So I would, I'd be very, you know,
you can put a Y here. We've done that before. So you have one supply tube and you wide off to two
carrots. But I wouldn't change anything about the end of this based on what Bluemat says.
The distance between the carrots is also really, or the distance between the distribution drippers
is also extremely important. And so again, I have another gauge, I have another depth gauge
for that. So this needs to be eight to 10 centimeters. And then each dripper needs to
be a certain distance. I'd be concerned that if you started doing anything after this end,
it would, you know. You can actually get fairly creative. I'm just going to shoot a little,
but I mean, you're generally right, Scott, but there is a lot of room. We've been doing some
interesting stuff with using like one carrot to water multiple pots. You know, for systems that
have like, you know, hundreds or thousands of small volume pots, you know, putting a carrot in
each one can get kind of cost prohibitive. And so what we've been doing is putting like one carrot
in a, say a three gallon pot, and then a string of distribution drippers into each pot. So it's
not as accurate. I'm going to shoot a little link to a video over to Peter. Maybe we could play it.
Let me see if I can pull this up real quick. If that's okay with you, Peter.
Or do you let me just do a screen share or do you want to share your screen?
Yeah, I can do that. Let me just, let me find this video here.
All right. So I think just whenever you want to take over, you can take over.
Great. I got a couple of questions about 200 gallon pots and a couple of things. Let me get a
moment. I'm going to go take a hit while you're pulling that up. I'll be right back. Okay, great.
Here we go. So I'm going to go ahead and do a screen share here.
So this is like one carrot controlling five pots. So you have one carrot right there. And then I
have two drippers in each pot. So you see how it did it bifurcated, it split, and then it ran this
loop with two drippers in each pot. And it worked great. I did this with a bunch of, you know, seed
plants this year. And they, and then it's kind of loops there. See, they, they did just as well
as the plants that had one carrot. And, you know, in this situation, which was a bunch of five
gallon pots are sort of crammed against the side of the greenhouse. You know, I was waiting for
these plants to sex out. And you kind of see that, see that style there. I apologize, then that maybe
is a viable strategy. Look at that. I apologize.
No, no, no. He might have me muted. Am I muted? Or am I?
No, no, no, we can hear you now. I mute you every once in a while. Yeah.
Yeah, no, I got background noise. Yeah. So what I was gonna say was when, you know, I learned from
people inside to always have redundancy, right? So they had automated systems on their ground.
And he's so much got them salt, then things to clog up. So they put three lines in each
five gallon pot. And it's just a nightmare trying to walk around in there. But to that effect,
you know, when one clogged, the other one was running. So I'm not too worried about
clogging with just water in my system. But I like the idea of redundancy with animals
chewing on lines and things like that I've invested in. But what I'm saying is, if you
have, you know, you have really cool mini pressurized loops, I really like the concept
for that. And not to complicate your business with that had a great system for nurses where you'd be
like, Hey, what do you want? And they just would draw it and then we give them a draw. Like you
guys have with your really cool code system, it's sustainable village. And then boom, I you had us
like a sample and no other company could do that. And that itself is a selling point beyond just the
product is pretty soon you're a consultant as opposed to just a salesman, you know, with the
bottle. Oh, yeah. Just to throw this out there just as a little plug for our company. You know,
anybody that wants you know, if you if you're looking for a blue mat system, you know, I really
in your in your in Scott's universe, I encourage you to go Scott and he's gonna have he's gonna put
it together for you and get you a system that is going to really kick ass if you're kind of outside
that orbit. You know, you're on the other side of the country, whatever or someplace else you can
always come right to our our website, sustainable village calm and right on the front page,
there's like a quote request button. And you can click the button and fill out some information.
And we'll do a free design and quote for you for a system. So yeah, just just to throw that out
there. If anybody's looking for designs, we've got the would be remiss if I didn't plug that at some
point here during this conversation. I just have to commit I just have to commend Michael again,
you're outside the box thinking has been really solid because, you know, thank you. Yeah. I mean,
thanks for all the praise today. Appreciate it. Really generous. Yeah, give us some examples of
because you you were you were talking about how awesome Michael was before. So tell me what makes
him stand out. And Walter, I'm gonna mute you. So because we're getting your background noise.
Yeah. Well, you know, my transition was with the traditional system with the drippers. And that was
what I was comfortable with. And that's what was working. The blue soak hose came on. But then
the transition period was tough. And I saw people putting just a horrendous amount of blue soak hose
in a four by bed to get it to perform properly. And so I was probably one of the later adopters
of the blue soak hose for sure. And what what what became my obstacle was the cost prohibitive
nature of all those carrots and distribution drippers. And, you know, Michael, or, you know,
whatever happened. But after Michael got to sustainable village, those those manifold systems
were a game changer. I think that's huge. You know, I'm trying to be mindful to not compliment
Michael and shit on Steve to see if you do. It's difficult. Yeah, none of this would be here without
Steve. That's for sure. He's listening. He's amazing. And I'm really thankful for the opportunity
to be able to sell your products, you know, because I know that's, that's very unique. And
not everybody gets those opportunities. So I'm extremely thankful because, in my opinion, and,
you know, I'm glad that both these gentlemen are on here because, you know, my job is quantifying
living soil systems. I have measured every trend, I have measured every technique, I have measured
every advice, and not just in one garden, I'm talking hundreds of gardens. So I get massive
sample sizes of everything that's going on, whether you like me or not. That's what I do.
And by far, by far, by far, by far, the highest performing gardens are using living soil line
pots, and blue mat systems, usually the manifolds. And, you know, I've not had a garden that we
installed a blue mat system in that did not recoup their investment on the very first harvest,
literally every single time, every single time, you know, I spoke about on the last episode I was
on about a farm that, you know, did a side by side trial. And they put blue mats on one side of
the greenhouse, but not the other side of the greenhouse. That led to a 28% increase in yield.
The investor that property was listening to that episode, he was offended, and we're no longer,
they're no longer our clients. So that's my world, how that shit works. But they didn't
like being used as an example. But maybe, yeah,
you know, we've had this conversation, I think, before, Scott, but we've had a, you know,
and actually, let me just jump back, you know, the designs for the blue mats, and then this blue soak,
you know, Steve, that's Steve pioneered the blue soak. And, you know, I've streamlined some of
this stuff. But there's a whole team of people there that are doing great work. And it's not
just me, we got a, we got a lot of great folks there at Sustainable Village right now.
We're actually hiring right now for a designer, if anybody out there is interested,
can email us at careers at blue mats.com. We're hiring a designer right now. But the
what you're saying about the side by side comparisons and whatnot, and we've been getting
anecdotal evidence about that for years and years. And we ran into the same darn things you ran into,
like, hey, let's work with somebody, let's, let's quantify this whole thing. Let's see what you're
doing before. Let's, let's give you a great break on blue mats. And we'll, we'll, we'll, you know,
do a research run here and see what your results are afterwards. And the same thing, like, you know,
they get to get to the end of that first or second round, and they see that their yields have bumped
up, you know, 10, 15, 20%, just from the blue mats. And all of a sudden, they don't want to share
any data anymore, because now they found a competitive advantage. And they're like, well,
I've got a little bit of a competitive advantage over their their competition, and, and they don't
want to share it. So then that's, that's the end of that. So we ran into that number of times.
We do it I do it we do have some folks that are starting to come out with more and more
information, Scott's been really generous with the information, there's some folks up in Seattle
area that are starting to hopefully publish some white papers about it, too. So we're gonna
you know, well, and that's why I think this time, and kind of what I try to do, and I think what
watching appreciates is people like you guys sharing. Like, like, Scott, you've been to how
many farms like knowledge front, like, it's not just like I saw it once. It's statistically,
I've seen it like 47 times, and I can verify the accuracy of this information I'm sharing.
When you when you combine a living soil line pot, which keeps the soil moisture more similar to
nature, and keeps biological activity high, if you're monitoring that and behaving in a way
that's conducive to that, and you add a blue mat system on top of that, that's when you start to
really rival something like an undercurrent system. That's the formula that you need, you cannot,
you can have great results on a living soil system, you can have great yields,
but you're never going to mimic the nutrient availability, the cycling of nutrients,
the delivery of nutrients that's in a hydroponic system, unless you start to combine some of these
products. And you, you're, you're, you as a hand waterer is never going to be able to keep it right
in the pocket, unless you have, you know, yourself or an employee that goes around and lightly missed
every single day, twice a day. Like you're going to have some level of waxing and waning, you're
going to have some level of ebb and flowing of too dry, too moist, you know, every time you add
moisture, it puts organisms to sleep into dormancy, because they're fearing a flood, so they're
preparing for a natural phenomenon, and so they stop cycling nutrients and producing growth to
your plant. And so the blue mat system really allows that, you know, it's a lot, it allows you
to mimic hydroponic strategies in living soil, plain and simple, you know. Unfortunately, it's,
it was confusing to some people. So there's, you know, there's a lot of people that are very vocal
about them not being good, but I'm telling you, 99% of the time, somebody has a bad experience,
it's because they were trying to use the brown cap as a volume knob, and they flooded their shit,
and they badmouth it. But you know, you got to move slow with it, you need to allow it to settle in,
you need to allow it to start interacting on its own, and then make a tiny adjustment and allow 24
hours for it to change. Allow 48 hours for it to change, don't go in there every two hours,
dicking with the knob, it's going to be a disaster, you're going to flood your property for sure.
So uevengrowbro asked, what kind of scale or numbers is moisture of soil rated on?
What's the question? I think like, what's the scale for measuring like, if the soil is an 8, 9,
10, like moisture, what is it measuring? Well, there's different ways to measure soil moisture
content. You know, you can either measure it as a percent of moisture content, or you can do it
with as units of pressure, like we talked about earlier. And so we tend to shoot for that, so we
use tensiometers, that's what our moisture meters are. And they measure in millibars. And again,
we shoot for that 100 millibars as our moisture reading. There's a number of tensiometers out
there. The digital blue mat moisture meters are like the cheapest by far. They retail for like
75 bucks. And they're, you know, which is more than those like shitty plastic ones with a stick
on it that you can buy at the like home and garden store. But those don't really work very well.
And ours, my cheap Rio temp meter here that has a battery and adjustment is pretty,
can be pretty far out of whack. I use this in my garden and it's got a tip on it and all that stuff.
But I'm guessing these are pretty far out of... Well, some of those are good. I don't know what
that, I don't know that one. I mean, some of them do work, but I'm guessing these are pretty far
out of whack. I mean, some of them do work, but you know, as far as like getting a good,
like getting a quality moisture meter that for under a hundred bucks, really,
you know, those digital moisture meters are a good buy.
We used to advocate the one that Tyler has quite a lot. And I do think it's a great tool,
but again, you have to understand what are the strengths of that tool? What are the weaknesses
of that tool? So the strength of the tool that Tyler has is it allows you to very quickly and
accurately see a variation as you plunge it down in the soil. So the tool that Tyler showed made by
RioTemp is like 28 bucks or 30 bucks or something. You have to set it to something. But what I
personally do with that tool is I use it to just plunge through the soil system to see how it
changes. You can see if there's dry pockets, you can see if the bottom is soaked to hell,
you know, without burrowing down like an animal and tearing things up, you can just...
Sure. And that's like total advantage over those tensiometers because they do, they take,
you know, at least an hour to get a good reading, like set it in place and then let it like
neutralize to the soil level or the moisture level in the soil. And they're really better to
be left in place for longer amounts of time. And I mean, some of our, you know, more flush clients
that have, you know, we've got some guys down in Vegas that have, you know, a couple hundred four
by four beds and they've got a moisture meter in every single bed. So they can actually walk
through the room and just hit the button and get a reading as they go. You know, most people aren't
going to spend that kind of money to do it. But it's, you know, you could, or you can do one as
like a control. Yeah. And this one cannot be left in the soil because it will corrode, eat the end
of the tip. Yeah. I want to say that. Here comes Walter. Walter, what do you have to say? Let's
see if we can hear you. Okay. Walter, I'm going to kill you. Your reception's a little bad.
Okay. Walter, I'm going to kill you. All right. So I think we're getting a lag.
Whoa. Still going, right?
I'm not the only one hearing that, right?
He's got a bad connection. Yeah.
All right. I'm going to, let me, uh,
What were your questions, Tyler? While we start?
There we go. Walter. Sorry, Walter. You're, you're,
Yeah. Talk about those, those raised those, those large pots. You know, I actually just got a quote
requested from a guy for like 300 of your 200 gallon pots today. You know, someone called.
Yeah. Nice. So my question is,
To put blue mats in, I think he's already got the pots.
Yeah. Beautiful. Beautiful. Beautiful. Yeah. Um, well, yeah, that's, uh, relating to 200
gallon pots. I had a customer who DM me, uh, before this and, um, he's got one feeding line
going to a whole bunch of 30 gallon pots and how many pots would it, would it be too much to do 10
pots, 20 pots, 30 pots, or we're going to lose pressure after, after, you know, one feeding line
going to those, uh, would you recommend multiple feeding lines?
Is it a gravity supplied feed or where's the water pressure coming from? That's the,
that's the first question I'd ask. Um, so if we're working on a gravity feed system,
there's one way to design it. If we're working on a pressurized water system,
that's coming from a well or city water system or a pump system, that's a different answer. So,
you know, assuming, assuming it's coming from pressurized water line,
you know, you can run a lot, you know, if you, with just a half inch pressure with a half inch
poly line, you could run, um, hundreds of plants. We just, like, we just did one up in, uh, like
Redway up that way, um, with, it was like 325, 300 gallon pots. And that, that whole sit, that
whole hillside, you know, it was a big area. It was just, it was just a half inch or I'm sorry,
it was a one inch supply line that did that whole system. And it was more than enough water to do,
to do that. And, you know, traditional irrigation guys would hear something like that and say,
bullshit, that's, that's no, there's no way you could do that. And that's because again,
it's this new paradigm of how to water things. You're not, you're not trying to create these
massive flow rates very quickly on high pressure systems. Um, we're just keeping things topped off.
So even if you're doing hundreds of 300 gallon pots, let alone 30 gallon pots, like the
amount of water, um, yeah, you need a lot of water, right? Like you guys know, like up in
Northern California on the hillside in the middle of August, it's like blazing hot and they're just
drinking tons of water and you're feeding this whole huge bed with a three millimeter line.
Sounds, sounds impossible. But if you're doing it over a 24 hour cycle, it really is possible
because again, you're never trying to like raise the moisture level. You're just keeping it topped
off, just keeping that topped off. And, um, I think the thing is, is he probably has, uh,
the eight milliliter, eight millimeter line, the red tube as a feeder. So would that limit you on
how many big pots you could do? I'm guessing. Yeah, absolutely. Um, did you say absolutely,
Scott? Well, I mean, well, yeah, answer the question. I was just saying, absolutely. There's
concerns and considerations. There is a limit for sure. Um, it's, it's, you could still do a lot
and, and really I would, you know, if he's already got it, great. Um, you know, if you were designing
something that, that had hundreds of 30 gallon pots, I would probably at least have some of it.
Right. So that's, that's like a half or three quarter inch PVC T that it's like three quarter
inch with a, um, and that black ones, a three quarter inch pipe thread by eight millimeter bar
going in there, I think, or is that half inch or three quarter? I can't tell. Yeah, it's half inch.
Yeah. This is a part from sustainable village. Yeah. So that's, so that, so that fitting,
you know, a lot of times we'll run, um, say you have whatever, 64 by eight beds in a indoor space
or something like we'll run PVC lines on the ceiling. Um, just like a manifold of it. And
then above each bed, we'll put that fitting and drop down to the bed with a piece of eight mil
and maybe a shutoff valve. And then that eight mil will connect to a couple of carrots and a
piece of blue soak. And you can put like a disconnect on there, like a quick connect disconnect
so that if you want to disconnect that bed and like wheel it somewhere else, like we have people
that do that sort of thing, um, really effectively. But you know, they can do stuff like that. Um,
yeah. So a lot of the, a lot of the name of the game is like having, you know,
main lines that are slightly higher diameter and then drop down to eight millimeter for,
you know, individual beds or for sections of a room zones, spaces like that.
I forget what the number is. We've tested it. It's again, we can put a lot of, at 15 PSI,
you can put a lot of water through one of those eight millimeter lines. Anytime I'm doing a large
space with a lot of pots. I use these a lot. This is a part from sustainable village that threads
into a normal PVC T and it taps into the red flex. And so you can, you can run a half inch PVC
all the way down the greenhouse and put these parts in it. And like, you know, the cost,
the cost is fairly similar from just running the PV, you know, running the eight millimeter flex
versus running a half inch. But like Michael was saying, like there are flow concerns. Like if you
got to start getting a ton of pots, you still need water volume to feed the space. So, you know,
if you, if you run like a half inch supply line and I've done both and I do both. And depending
on the context of the situation, like I'll either run down the length of the bed with
eight millimeter flex, or I'll run down the length of the bed with PVC.
And then you can tap into the manifold system with this. So you just loop the system. So
where do you reduce the pressure with that? Is that the very beginning
at the very beginning, or you can break it into zones. You can run like,
you know, for some of the bigger systems we do I'll run like a full, like a higher pressure,
like at 40 PSI, a main line, and then we'll have like chunks broken up, you know, with a few hundred
plants that will be off one pressure reducer. Yeah. Because the pressure, pressure reducers
get expensive because they're 40 something bucks. $39. Yeah. Yeah. But what you get out of that is
I'm a bit big advocate of biting things off. And so, you know, I don't even bother with the
calculations of flow and pressure and all that stuff. Like I just bring full pressure to the
zone, put a pressure reducer on it. And then the blue mat pressure reducer, I don't have the fitting
nearby, but you can go from the pressure reducer back to the half inch PVC. And so the entire main
system is the what? Yeah. Or something. 15, 15 PSI, one bar. And you know, actually, Scott,
this is a little announcement that we don't have it yet, but we've got a prototype from Austria.
They've made a new mold for us. So we're going to use the blue mat pressure reducer.
And instead of going from the three quarter inch hose thread to eight millimeter barb,
it's going to go from three quarter inch hose thread to a three quarter inch pipe thread on
the out there, three quarter inch hose thread on the outside and half inch pipe thread on the inside.
So you can kind of like either connect a half inch male pipe thread or three quarter inch hose thread
on the outside. And it's been something we've been trying to push them to do for years. And
it just costs a lot of money to make the mold and change their factory productions,
but they're doing it. So I don't know when, but at some point in the future, we're going to be
able to offer that, which I think is going to be really nice. The YouTube audience is going crazy
over this announcement. Uh-oh. Did you have a picture of it? Can you send me the picture and
I'll show it? Oh man, I don't have one. I don't think I have one. There's one down at Steve's
house right now. We've got one in the U S there's one of them in America right now.
That was Steve Troy's house in Boulder. Yep. Here's the, um, here's the pressure reducer.
And so it has a little nipple that goes to eight millimeter. And so what he's talking about is like
this is garden hose and it goes to an eight millimeter and then you have to put a little
stub and then it barbs into a half inch. You can charge any half inch PVC through that. And so we
always have to have like these little sections. So you just made it. That's pretty. And it works.
It works fine to do it that way. It's just, it's going to be a, it's going to be a more
solid connection and you know, the potential flow rate might increase. The thing about those, um,
blue mat pressure reducers. This is a really interesting point that comes up a lot with people
is, you know, they say, why can't I just use one of these, these like $8 Senninger pressure reducers.
And you know, nothing against Senninger pressure reducers. We use them in our large scale hemp
farms. But the, um, the thing is it's all about flow rate and most, uh, pressure reducers are not
actual pressure reducers. They're flow restrictors. And so they, they really just limit flow and they
don't really become pressure reducers until you hit like say 0.5 gallons per minute. And, and
that's when they start regulating pressure. So you need that higher pressure to, or the higher flow
rate to activate the pressure reducing qualities. And our systems often don't hit a half a gallon
per minute. You know, there's lots of times when they're not doing that. So the pressure can build
up much higher downstream and you, it does. I know it does. And what's cool about those blue
mat brand pressure reducers, they're a little bit more, uh, money, you know, but they operate down
to zero PSI. So, or I'm sorry, to zero GPMs. So if you, you know, it doesn't matter what the flow
rate is, they're always going to hold the pressure, the downstream pressure below one bar or 15 PSI.
Nice. That's why we have to put those in, you know, people ask about that a lot. So that's the
reason. That's a bit about pressure reducers. Sorry. I was, I was lost in the YouTube chat.
Uh, they're, they're, they're, I'm trying to think of how to synthesize what the conversation is.
It's basically like, if you take like, uh, some genetics and you bring them into the hydro world
for generation after generation, and then I guess, bring them back into like a living soil environment
or, or vice versa, uh, are those generation after generation of genetics kind of conditioned to like,
you know, be like an indoor cat that eats like, you know, dry cat food versus, I think you said
a bobcat that's like, you know, killing its prey. I think, uh, I think the, at least, at least on a
basis of consideration is the original selection of those genetics. So if a hydroponic grower
did that breeding, then they are choosing characteristics that thrive or ideal for that
consideration, which is a high soluble NPK strategy. And so far, I've not seen a plant
that didn't do well in a living soil, but there are some, at least some considerations for,
um, you know, taking a, you know, taking a basketball family and, you know, grooming
somebody for basketball and making them do an elite basketball player and then saying, okay,
now you're going to be a baseball player. You know, if they're athletic and top of the game,
they'll probably do all right. But, you know, that's why I personally like to choose genetics
that were bred in living soil, which one of the things that people don't talk about is a lot of
the breeders do their breeding in living soil because you end up with better seeds. They don't
talk about that. A lot of our first work was actually with breeders. So I learned a lot about
that working with the breeders because they were growing in hydro doing their commercial stuff in
hydro. But they were actually making their seeds in living soil. So we helped them with that.
But I've yet to see, you know, in the hydro people don't like to hear this, but I've yet to see,
I've yet to see a plant come from a hydroponic lifetime or background put into a living soil
system that didn't produce more resin, more terpenes, more flavor. You know, you might,
you might not get the look, like if you take an OG that needs to be crammed with PGRs, like you're
not going to get that look in living soil because you're not cramming it with PGRs. And a lot of
times people are conditioned to see that look, you know, and so that may be one slight advantage for
hydro. But I've yet to see something that didn't perform better in some way, if not always in living
soil. Go ahead. I was just saying, but you need to, there are considerations for genetic history,
like, you know, you can't, can't take a plant that was bred in the desert and put it on the
Santa Cruz coast where it's moldy as shit and expect it to be great. You know what I mean?
Like there's always going to be a consideration for what that plant's strength and weaknesses are,
and you have to play to that.
So I'm just looking through, and these are questions from a while back. Mick asked,
does the wood mulch use too much nitrogen to break down? Estella said I'd love to get
Scott's opinion on using malted barley. I try to not comment on any coot shit publicly.
Okay, I'm just kidding. No, um, malted barley makes a really delicious beer. Yeah, yeah.
I, yeah, it can be great. We saw, we saw some issues. You know, we saw some issues with
facilities fail for E. coli with malted barley in the, in the commercial space.
Dragonfly Earth Medicine tried to talk about it publicly and they got raked over the coals.
Um, I tried to defend Dragonfly Earth Medicine and that led to a tremendous amount of personal
attacks on me. Um, but you know, test the shit yourself. Um, but there's no doubt grinding up
malted barley helps. I think, um, I think the major consideration for any of the techniques
coming from Clackamas Coot or any of those people is that they, um, clearly verbally despise
any sort of microscope analysis. And so their techniques are not taking into consideration the
actual health of living soil. And so there's going to be limit concerns with their advice
versus what the living soil actually likes. Um, you know, so a lot of the suggestions that people
use are beneficial to plant growth, but remarkably harmful to soil organisms. So if you're going to
merge the two systems, I, I strongly urge you to do some level of quantification of your process
with a microscope, um, to see how those things are affecting. Um, we see a lot of problems with the
advice on volumes of those techniques and living soil. So, you know, the malted barley is fantastic
at providing enzymes and triggering the system. Um, there's no doubt about that, but you don't
want to make a mat, you know, anytime it mats and gets that fuzzy mold, it's, um, highly revered
online and praised, but that's actually a bad organism from all my analysis. Um, it's not
actually beneficial to plant growth and causes considerable powdery mildew issues, mildew issues.
Um, but yeah, the malted barley is great. Sprinkle it on top, you know, that's one strategy for sure.
I think I got russet mites from it last time. You absolutely did. No, that was, uh, well,
cause it's the stimulation and that's what, that's, what's really lacking, you know,
and I'm not trying to get raked over the coals by that grumpy bastard again online, but, um,
uh, you know, you, you need to do some analysis of your process. If you're going to interact with
the living soil system, it's like, you know, to completely neglect the monitoring of the system
is remarkably irresponsible and to advocate people not quantifying it is even more irresponsible
because that's like saying, that's like saying if you know, you have a breeder that never
quantifies sex, male or female, and just make seeds never, never is interested in if it's
male or female. Like to me, that's the same level of absurdity of doing living soil without
quantifying it. Like, how do you know what you're growing? You know? And, um, so yeah, there was a
lot of problems with, um, you know, the quantities of these things that are suggested their effect on
plant growth are undeniable. Their benefit on plant growth are undeniable, works great. What
is of concern is how you can top dress with a malted barley and get a positive plant growth
response. But at the same time, you completely collapse the living soil system, which puts,
puts, puts, uh, puts a tremendous stall onto plant growth. And if you do that during flowering,
that's going to significantly impact your yield. So quantify the living and living soil.
So Walter asked if you could expand, uh, on the microbiome bust effect.
Ah, okay. So what ends up happening is you have these organisms that create a soil structure. So
you have bacteria that glue themselves to the particles of soil minerals and organic matter,
and they start to stick together. And then, then the fungi start to come and they take those little
bacteria bits and they start to glue them together in bigger aggregation. And this is what creates
soil structure. So the bacteria start to form the micro aggregation and the fungi start to create the
macro aggregation. This is where pore space, this is where oxygen to the root zone happens. And this
is where the condominiums for the organisms we talk about actually happens. And this is how it
gets created, right? So that's that soil food web system. Um, and what you have to understand is that
those organisms have tolerances for literally everything, water, chemicals, pesticide products,
oxygen, and anytime it swings outside of ideal, they either go dormant or it causes them to die.
They're just, they're very sensitive single cell organisms and the term lice, L I C E, they lice
and they die. It means a mass casualty. Um, and so in all of the popular trends, um, that we follow
have a threshold or where they are moderately stimulating to biology to overly stimulating to
biology to completely collapses the system in a matter of hours. And that's what's really
dangerous about the techniques coming from those that advocate not measuring these systems is
because you have no quantification of how these are actually impacting the systems. Um, when
sprouted CTS were really popular in 2015, 2016, it was really common for people to make like an
alfalfa sprouted CT and dispense an entire five gallon bucket to a four by eight bed. What people
don't understand because they're not measuring these biological communities is that will
completely wipe them out. Um, and when we come to a facility, we quantify everything you could
imagine and its effect on microbiology. And so we've had farms get a living soil up to speed.
We'd have, we've had them get up to a desirable population and nutrient cycling levels.
And then they'll maybe spray micro butanol on the plants that will have a complete and total
decimation of the soil organisms because of how it falls onto the soil and how that chemicals goes
into the leaf. The plant tries to shed it to the root zone and it then becomes remarkably
antimicrobial. If you apply five gallons of a sprouted CT to a bed, it has the same devastation
effect on microbial communities as if you sprayed the plant with micro butanol. Um, and people don't
understand that. And so you need to find the range of threshold for literally everything you do. And
so when we work with commercial facilities, we use the microscope analysis to quantify populations
as they are affected by watering volumes, as they are affected by feed volumes, as they are affected
by feed frequencies. And you would be absolutely mind blown how much these communities are affected
by literally everything that we do. And so everything that we do, regardless of how beneficial
it is, there is going to be a threshold on biological life to where it becomes a detriment.
And what happens with the biological communities is if you add any food resource that's stimulating
to them, you can actually stimulate them into collapse. And that's exactly what happens. And so
it's very common to apply some sort of treatment in the flowering cycle, third, fourth, fifth week
of flowering, what have you. And you will have a tremendous pace of growth rates. You'll have a
tremendous growth response. You apply something, anything really, mineral top dress, a liquid feed,
sprouted CET, anything, fulvic acid, any of it can have a stimulating, but it can also have a total
collapsing effect. And that is the number one cause for problems in living soil, because people
aren't really quantifying how the things that they do affect the microbial communities. So that's
one way how you end up at like russet mites following some of these techniques. If you,
if you overstimulate the system and cause a boom bust, well, you're going to have a nutrient
delivery system issue on a plant that was growing vigorously, that has a great demand on nutrients,
that's trying to fill out flowers, and you just cut the legs out. So it's either going to stall
and not fill out properly, or it's going to manifest some sort of pest issue.
Am I accurate in saying that a lot of the issues you're seeing at scale,
people get upset with you because they have much smaller gardens and they're like, but I do that,
and I'm not seeing it. And you're like, yeah, but if you scale it up, statistically, I'm seeing it
at an alarming level. Like what's just various different methodologies and things people do.
No, I think at a small scale, it may work. And that's why they get upset with you. But at a large
scale, you're like, I'm seeing failures. Well, I think there's issues on a small scale. Yeah,
I think there's three, I think there's three things happening. One, people are remarkably
impressionable by those gurus online. And so if they tell you to jump, all these internet kids
say, how high? So if someone says, what I'm saying is wrong, all you motherfuckers fall in line,
and just do whatever. So that's the first problem. You need to think critically, you need to do your
own analysis, and you need to look into these things. Then there's two other concerns. Yeah,
scale is one of them, but also repetitions, like people don't understand how much analysis my wife
and I have done. I mean, you know, as far back as 2016, 2015, we would go into a commercial facility,
and we would take 10, 20, 30, 40, 50 data points, we would aggregate all that data,
we would analyze it. You know, back in 2016, we were working for some extremely large facilities.
One of the first groups that ever hired us had 26 properties of over a million square feet of
cultivation. I worked in their mom house for nine months, like I was doing analysis of their entire
process and scaling it across a million square feet five years ago. And so we would make one
corrective change, and we would send it to all facilities. And then each facility was having
four harvests in a calendar year. There was a remarkable amount of data that was taken during
that time that led to a tremendous amount of knowing and we have not stopped. You know, we
have not stopped that level of progression. We have not stopped that level of analysis. It's only
gotten more and more. And so yeah, when you get to scale, you know, when you're sitting inside of 150,
200, 300 light flowering room, and you've got a bunch of 30 gallon pots, if you look at six of
them, they look pretty consistent. If you stand up on a chair and you look across the canopy,
you can actually see remarkable variations. And so yeah, there is a consideration of as you get
more data sets, it reveals more about the consideration. But the things that I'm saying
are not just, you know, out of nowhere, like if I'm saying it publicly, I have quantified it many times
across many square feet in a four by four tent, or literally by definition, some of the largest
facilities on the planet. And we've, you know, we've worked with something like 2 million square
feet of cultivation, from a four by four tent to some of the largest single property permits on the
planet. And the same phenomenons happen wherever you're at. And so people don't realize like,
you know, my viewpoint of the world is much different than your viewpoint of the world. So
where, you know, cultivators think that what they're doing is extremely unique,
what they don't realize is that you're essentially in like four lanes of trends, and you're doing
minor adjustments of that trend. My job is analyzing all of those samples. And so,
you know, we have a completely different viewpoint of the world than most people.
And we're still pretty new. My wife and I are, you know, literally the first people to do some
of this analysis. And so, you know, the first person to do everything gets defined as crazy
until other people follow it along. And, you know, one of the reasons why I've been so vocal,
and been so outgoing so early on, is I'm interested in being historically correct.
You know, a lot of people think I'm out of my mind now or out of my mind then. But there are
more and more people every day being qualified to do the type of analysis that I am. And they're
coming to these same conclusions. And you're going to look back in a few years and be like, man,
I sure thought Scott was an asshole. But in 2015, he was right.
All right. So first of all, was I on the Scott train early?
You've always been a...
And when I introduced you to John, do you know how psyched I was that you came to the Emerald
Exchange or wherever we were to meet him? I was like, John, I want you to meet this guy.
And he was amazing in terms of just being open to, like, so many people are set in their ways. He was
I want to learn.
Yeah. Yeah, John, that was that particular product. What Peter's talking about is it was a
54,000 square foot greenhouse that was run by a couple of young dudes. Matt, Jorge, I think was
his last name.
Jorge.
Jorge, yeah. And John.
Stashenko.
Stashenko, yeah. John passed away suddenly. That was devastating. But what was so unique about that
property is they were young and open minded. Most of the time my job is trying to convince some old
dude with money that we know what we're talking about. When we were working with Start, you know,
they were they were not inhibited by their egos. They were not inhibited by dogma. And, you know,
they had a very small budget, but they did what they could do. And, you know, we came in and did
some absolutely heroic shit with that group. You know, and unfortunately, John, John died in a car
wreck the day after we left their facility for a site visit. That was I was still devastating
because. What that property was about, you know, it was.
I remember visiting that site. That was an awesome place.
Yeah. Yeah. And we and we had I mean, what I loved about John was.
You know, he he like I had these visions of basically doing like so many growers are pitched
so many things that like if you buy this, it'll give you a 30 percent increase in X, Y or Z.
And I was like, could we create within this like commercial nursery?
Could we do research and like prove and disprove things?
Yeah. And you did for the short time we were able to do that.
What was unique about that property is.
They had one of the lowest budgets of any farm we've worked with.
And of all the facilities that we've worked with, they had by far the healthiest quality
of the healthiest clones of any property I've ever been to.
And they had the most consistent. I'm going to send you a picture.
It's got your button, which is pretty funny with it, with the the leaf.
Right now, what's funny is I took this photo of you because you're always the camera guy.
You're never on TV. So I took this photo just to take a photo of you and be in the picture.
And clean those clones where I've not been into a facility yet that had this amount of numbers.
And this really this consistent of clone health from top to bottom in the picture you're loading
up in that one strip would hold anywhere from 16 to 24000 clones.
And then as the facility progressed, they would have two to three lanes.
So you would inside of a 3,250 square foot bay, you're able to fit anywhere from,
you know, 20 to 35,000 clones.
And I've we've done a lot of work in nursery because usually what happens at scale,
the first sticking point is in propagation. So it's really easy to expand flowering.
It's extremely difficult to expand healthy clones.
So we've actually spent a tremendous amount of time in the nursery, in mom, in prop,
you know, getting to improve that. Improving rooting times, improving health, improving clone consistency.
It's actually where probably 80% of our work has been trying to suss that out.
Either working directly for nurseries or as a facility scales, that's the first failure point.
But it goes back to we didn't we haven't really got to it, but we talked about it in the
in the green room a little bit about what James Loud was asking about with cloning.
So I actually just texted him asking if you wanted to come on and ask the question directly.
But yeah, let's get to it. Let me give me one second.
For my these are my my mad production skills.
Oh, shit. You're doing on the fly live to broadcast.
This is like some this is some NBC shit, man. You're doing great.
But essentially, the question for James was, you take lower clones, you take upper clones.
What do you do? And John and Matt, what they did was they would
was they would. Yeah, there it is. So where do you take the best clones from the top or the bottom?
I don't know the answer to that specific question, but what I do know in the photo that I sent you
of that nursery, they have by far the most consistent clones of any property I've ever
been to. They had by far the most consistent rooting times and what they did that made them
so unique. Literally, I've not seen one other farm we've worked with do this. But yeah, there you go.
So that's Peter's back of his head. My my my attractive ass. Yeah.
So that right there, what you're looking at is I believe that strip was somewhere between 16 and
24,000 clones that would fit right there. That was 120 foot long row, I believe. I think the
whole base space was 3250. You can see on the left hand side, they got more sprinklers to set up
another row. This was a really early on version. They ended up putting tarps on the side to trap
it to make it more like a clone dome. I think I've spoken on other episodes. If I were to take this
the next step and if John wouldn't have passed away, this would have gone up onto a bench so
you can allow draining and then they would have put a dome. You see in some of the farms, put a
dome over them over a big table that works really well. And but nonetheless, the reason why they had
such consistent clones is they were doing living soil, not complicating it, not doing anything
overly aggressive. They were just very gently keeping the plants alive. I think what else was
remarkable about this property is the use of shade cloth. So they never went into a fluorescent light
back into light, back and forth and back and forth. And John really felt strongly that
if you had everything under the sunlight and varying degrees of sunlight, you would have the
fastest rooting times. And they did using this janky ass on the floor of this ratty greenhouse.
They legitimately had those rooting times that most dudes brag about that actually don't happen.
And I think the main consideration that allowed them to do that was the moms were under
like a 30 percent shade cloth. And then here the clones had a 30 with an additional 60, I think it
was. There was double layers. And then they would move back and forth. And so then the teens would
move next door to the next bay and it had less shade cloth. So all plants were under the sunlight.
They never went into a bin. They never went into a fluoro. They never went the high pressure sodium.
Everything was always under one light. I think that's huge. You can see they had string lights
to keep things from going dormancy. But mostly that was a budget issue. I'm sure if they had
more money they'd put some LECs or something. But what they did that was so unique, I don't
think I have actually ever said it, but when they were taking clones they would take the top clones,
they would take the inner clones, and they would take the lower clones and they would separate them
all. And they would put them all into their own tray. So one tray would have all top clones,
one tray would all have lower clones, and then one tray would have all inner clones.
And what happens is, in my observation of going to a lot of nurseries, in my observation of working
with a ton of propagation space, is what ends up happening is you get a tray of clones that are
uppers, middles, and lowers, and they're all on the same tray and they all root at the same,
they all root at different rates. And so some are a little bit slower, some are a little bit
faster. And when you have them all in the same tray, you have plants that are in there too long,
and you have plants that are in there not long enough, and you have plants that are in there
just right. When you start to scale this up to thousands and thousands and thousands of clones,
that single phenomenon becomes a total nightmare. And so whether you take tops,
middles, or bottoms, if you can, separate them. That'd be my advice. So that you have one tray
that has all the same characteristics. Hey Scott, you mind if I jump in here about clones and ask
you a question? Yeah. Have you ever, have we got to play with the capillary mats at all? Have you
got to use any of those things? No, and I need those for my own life. You know, with all the
coronavirus disruptions, we've been pretty home, but for the most part, we're never home. We're
gone most weeks, and so it makes it kind of a nightmare for my own garden personally. And I have
a real hard time starting seeds for my outdoor every year here. I've come out really late. I've got, you know,
this year I just threw unsexed clones because it took me a couple times to get seeds started, but
I definitely want to get some of those from you and start tinkering them because my own life needs
them, you know. Yeah, I'd like you to give them a shot too. You know, for those that don't know,
capillary mats are, they're a system that we provide too, and they're basically a felt
mat that they can roll out on lots of different surfaces. You just take a flat surface and you
water the mat. The mat gets watered and then you put plants on it, and then they wick water up from
this felt mat. And it's incredibly useful for clone production, seedling production, that sort of
thing. Things that are very, it's very small containers, but they can also work in containers
up to like five gallons. And it's a, it's an incredibly common propagation technique in Europe.
It just hasn't really caught on in the U.S., but for nursery stock production, that sort of thing,
these capillary mats, we can, and we can get them in all kinds of custom sizes. We have like
different versions of them, some that are just mats, some that are like these whole systems.
We actually have a blue mat, a surface blue mat that will measure the moisture content of that
capillary mat and turn on and off as that dries up instead of measuring the soil content,
so then we can feed into lines and soak that. But it's something to really check out, and
you and I should talk more offline about this and get you set up with some capillary mats just to
test out and see what you think about them. Because I think it could be a whole, it's just
like an untapped resource that cultivators could really be using.
So Scott, what intrigues you about capillary mats?
Well, for me, starting seeds is a total nightmare because I have to look at my schedule, which is
remarkably dynamic and changes because I'm relying on weed guys.
It's hard to nail down a date. No disrespect, I'm flimsy as health can be too, so it's
on my own personality trait as well. But so for me, like I have to look at my schedule and say,
when do I have seven days home where I can pop seeds, get them to germinate, get them planted,
get them into a container so I can water them, and get them big enough so I can leave them for
a couple days. And so, you know, James has told me about getting some of the capillary mat.
I think for the commercial space, the number one obstacle to consistent cloning and why
that picture at John's place was working is because of the overhead system, the way they
had it working, it was very consistent moisture from end to end. The number one problem with 10
by 20 trays at scale is once you get more than like a Home Depot rack full, the variation in
microclimate is unbelievable. And there was one cultivator that we worked with early on that would
actually weigh the trays, and that was the most functional strategy for dealing with it. And he
definitely had the best rooting consistency of any of the farms we worked with, I think. And he
would weigh the trays. So he had an employee come in each day, weigh the trays, set the moisture
again, so they're always at the exact moisture. What you'll find if you actually take this step
is, especially on a racking system, we see this everywhere we go. They just keep expanding
racking system with domes, and all you do is massively increase variation across your space.
And so, obviously, heat rises, you have lights, you have domes on top of lights, you have the
bottom tray that doesn't have a light below it. And so the water usage and the evaporation is
just the most unbelievably dynamic thing in that space. And so what I think is cool about the
capillary mat is it maintains that, but then how does that play with a 10 by 20 tray? Unmute.
There, I'm back. I was on the chat.
Would you guys want to see a video of a little cap mat system?
I would love to. Yeah. I'm curious how it plays with 10 by 20 trays. If the facility's stuck to
a 10 by 20 tray, how does that capillary mat work? Yeah, let me show you something. This is a
local permaculture-oriented kind of native plant nursery here in Boulder.
And this is a kind of a slightly older style one. I did this one maybe two years ago.
And so you guys see that? Yeah. Okay. So I'll just mute the sound on it. But the
basic setup is you can see that's some blue soak there. And the whole system starts right here with
a pressure reducer. And then it's going to go into this half inch poly tubing.
I'm probably narrating this in the video as well, but turn the sound off. And then that line just
runs down. So that's like a constant supply of 15 PSI. And that's going to run the length. There's
two of these kind of like four by eight size beds here. And that kind of purple material,
that's like this felt material. It's like a recycled plastic actually. But it has a really
high water moisture, like ability to hold moisture. And you can kind of see up in the corner there,
this is like our surface blue mat right there up on the right there next to some of those 10 by 20
trays or whatever they are, those trays there. There's that black foil in the back. We put that
over the top of the capillary mat to prevent algae growth. So you have this half inch poly line.
It's got a three millimeter piece of silicon right there. That's like a quarter inch by three mil.
And that's running to the surface blue mat, which is monitoring the moisture content.
And then it's running into this little header here of superflex. And then it's got two rows of
blue soak on it. And that's what's maintaining the moisture level of the capillary mat.
So from there, we can just take plants and and put them in the capillary mat.
So from there, we can just take plants and set up the trays directly on them.
And they'll wick water up so that mat will stay at a constant moisture level.
I did a separate test here. I just put a timer right here. And then that white collar right
there is one of our flow restrictors, which is another product we offer. It's like
just basically it allows like point or that thing will like allow like a half a gallon per
hour to pass through it. So it's like a slow drip that will go through. And those
are another kind of system that we have. But don't use the actual blue mat carrots.
But that's a that's a set up. That's kind of what they look like.
And like I think in this case, we were using these 72 count or 72 cell trays.
And just in setting those on there, they do a ton. Like I said,
they do tons of native plant propagation at this place. You can kind of see. So it has like a hole
in the bottom like that. We can set those right on that mat and they'll just maintain a real
consistent moisture. People can use cloth pots. You can use all kinds of plastic pots. You can
use those peat pots work really well, you know, like jiffy pot kind of thing.
But yeah, we actually like at our shop, we flowered out like a whole bunch of
plants in five gallon pots and we kept them alive through flower. We just had them under
some T5 so they didn't really produce much weight. But it worked. It kept them alive well,
you know, and with like any kind of pre-amended soil mix or something like that, it works really
great. And you can actually run nutrients for them too. And then we have some other ones that
are like a whole system. So they come as four layers. And there's like the bottom layer is a
non-permeable kind of like plastic and there's a thick felt mat and then there's like this poofy
kind of mat. And then there's this perforated layer on top and the perforated layer sits above
the thick felt mat. It doesn't make contact with it until you put a plant on it and then it pushes
down and makes contact with that, with the thick felt mat, which is, you know, do it with water.
And then that, and then water, you know, goes up through that and makes, you know, you can run
them off a timer. You can run them off that super surface blue mat. Those surface blue mats are good
for smaller, you know, spaces like that, like up to five square meters. So, you know, like three by,
like three by 25, I guess would be about that. Three by 15, three by 15. But, and then after
that we just run like a timer and just turn a timer on and like let them water. So it's a real
option for vegging out small plants and for clone production. There really needs to be, someone
needs to really take advantage of it in a big way. We've sold a bunch of smaller systems, but, you
know, it's something that's just waiting to explode, I think. Isn't it funny how the big guys are the
least likely to adopt stuff? That's why I always continue to work with the small growers. I think
like, you know, the funniest thing is that people think that we only work with like the big money
monsters, not realizing that we put a tremendous effort into small growers. No, the majority of
our customers are like six to 12 plants in your basement kind of thing. You know, that's like our
bread and butter as a company is people that, you know, just need that. And we give them the same
amount of attention that we give our commercial, you know, large scale, 10,000 square foot guys.
Nice. Tyler, how about grassroots? Is it the same thing? Yeah, definitely. With, you know,
our partnership with Blue Mat, it's kind of made my life a lot easier because I kind of go through
the process of, are you going to use Blue Mat? Either that they're going to tell me that right
off the bat, and they're going to buy my products or within the conversation we get on the Blue Mat
subject. So honestly, I've just been saying, hey, go to go to Michael, and he's going to design a
system around the products that you buy. So it's been pretty easy for me just to pass them off to
Michael, and he's got to do all the hard work and designing system and all that kind of stuff. So
we definitely work with small growers, I'd say our bread and butter is the small guys to
placing orders on our website and coming here to pick up raised beds. And that's where we started,
you know, selling direct to those people and helping them out. And yeah.
Yeah, and I'll say it really publicly, we're really, really appreciative of the relationship
we've been able to form with grassroots. I think we're probably about the biggest
distributor of reseller of grassroots products out there now. I don't know.
You're loud and proud with your love for grassroots.
And we just we, you know, we promote the hell out of them. And, you know, we sell a lot of the,
a lot of grassroots products in conjunction with our system. So a lot of our commercial guys,
yeah, they will. They'll buy all their beds.
And Scott, you're loud and proud for your love of Blue Mat and grassroots.
I mean, I, yeah, I mean, I,
to be recording of things that...
I think you've been spent the last three and a half hours talking about it.
I mean, I should be supporting of the things that support me and allow us to get good results. And,
you know, Blue Mats is instrumental and kicking the shit out of hydro, which is our entire goal.
And, you know, I should support a product design. So yeah, I live in...
So Scott, Tyler Blue of Green Tank asked,
enzyme T collapses microbial populations, right? Scott, could this be used as a tool in late
flowering and senescence is escalating in biological population, marrying the plants,
mirroring the plant cycle and waning near... Well, I think he has some autocorrect on there, but
do you get the gist of the question?
Well, read it to me one more time in your best effort.
Hold on. I'm asking, I'm saying, Tyler, give me, re-read the question or re-type the question.
Enzyme T collapses microbial populations. How about start with that question mark?
Well, so the first, I guess to further clarify is I'm not saying that the enzyme T always collapses.
I'm just saying that with anything we use, there is a consideration for collapsing and we need to
find an appropriate level of stimulation without collapsing. So that's the first consideration.
And then the second question, it sounds like he's asking something about the maturity of the plants
and wanting to affect that.
So could this be used as a tool in late flowering,
is escalating a biological population, marrying the plant cycle and,
and I think the next word was autocorrected.
Yeah. So I think the essence of what he's asking is, should we be collapsing the system intentionally?
Which, which no, that's why, that's why the blue mats are so powerful is because they maintain
that system. And so, you know, microbes need root exudates from the plant or they need a food
resource and they need water. And so the blue mats maintain the moisture to maintain those organisms
after the demand for water on the plant starts to decrease. So no, I think, and this probably
isn't part of his question, but it's, it's another common phenomenon in the industry where,
you know, the mind, the mindset is very cyclical in other types of systems like hydroponics.
In a living soil system, you got to think on the planet's timeline. We're talking about very,
very, very, very long systems and the natural soil will go through ebb and flows of populations. So
during certain times of the year, it'll go down and it'll go back up, but it never stops it
completely. It's always trying to maintain it in one way or another for a slight seasonality.
Especially in a high production unnatural system like we do, you know, we're not, we're not allowing
that winter time. We're not allowing that time off. We're just cramming plants and cramming
plants and cramming plants. And so it's even more important to do everything in your power
to maintain the highest levels of biological population for every day of the year.
So Tyler clarified the autocorrect. Can reducing biological activity be beneficial and lethal
or can it be beneficial and late flower to mirror the plant's inactivity?
I don't believe lowering it is ever beneficial. Our goal is to increase it and maintain it at
every cost. So much so that we change things that are important to us. Like there's things that I
like doing that I found out through extension microscope analysis that are not actually that
good. And so everything that we do, we are monitoring those biological populations. And I think,
I think what kind of the average grower doesn't understand is that there's a tremendous amount
of power that can come from monitoring the biologic communities of your soil. You know,
your plant is a biological organism that has cells that have a susceptibility to the things in its
environment. And those organisms are far more sensitive than the cells of your plant. And so
if something you're doing is of detriment to those biological organisms, well, they're the most
sensitive in the system and they're the first chain in problems. And so by monitoring those
biological communities, you can tell many weeks before an actual pest or disease issue would
manifest in your garden. So Tyler clarified, not collapsing, but reducing activity and then
jumpstarting for veg of next cycle. So this seems like a, I have a raised bed that I'm like
using over and over again. So, so again, that's what I'm saying. Like that's like a hydroponic
mentality in a living soil. You have to think on a longer timeline and the, the actual benefit
of permanent living soils is you harvest a plant and that soil still has a really high
population of organisms and high activity. And you drop another plant into it. That's the actual
benefit. And so that's why I'm always an advocate of beds over pots, because that larger soil
volume is going to have a higher likelihood of maintaining those high biological populations.
And it's going to buffer things out. And so we want to go the other direction. We want to say,
what can we do to maintain high biological activity for every hour of every day forever?
Okay. So just to confirm, three gallon pots is what you recommend?
Every time.
Excellent.
No, I, I, I know. I think everybody watching, there are 200 people still tuned in three hours.
My Clackamas Cucumis would have killed everybody.
A long time ago, JNK triple G said, how can I naturally lower my soil pH? It's high sevens
right now. Okay. So that's one of the biggest issues with the mindset of soil. People want
to acidify things. They want to drop pH. If you really look into the minds that developed all
the strategies for mineral balancing, analyzing mineral balancing of soils and adjusting the
mineral balance of soils, they all say that when the mineral balance comes into alignment,
pH will, will self-correct. And we see that happen. If you have a high pH, that means you
have an imbalance of positively charged ions in your soil. So magnesium, potassium, and calcium
are all positively charged, I believe. And so usually if you have a high pH, you either have
way high calcium or way high magnesium, something like that. Again, I'm not the mineral balance guru.
That's my best understanding, but nonetheless, if the pH is high, your minerals are also out of
balance. And also too, how are you measuring that? Sometimes the methods for measuring soil pH are,
are different than what the soil analysis would show. So if your soil analysis, so if you've used
the lab like Logan or something like that, and it shows a high pH, it also should show there's
a base saturation issue with those positively charged elements. So the answer is correct the
mineral balance and make the drop, I guess. Tyler, I want you to take the opposite opinion and argue it.
Tyler, did you hear what I said earlier? I was perfectly neutral.
And love him. You don't argue. Did we? Guys, I'm gonna just butt in here. I'm gonna
bail out here in a few minutes, I think. If there's any last Blue Mac questions, I'm happy to
answer them. Otherwise, I've had like a really, really great time talking to you. It's been a real pleasure.
Yeah, we're gonna, you can jump off and the rest of us will wrap up shortly.
Sorry, I'm looking through the, Tyler, are you looking at all the questions?
Yeah, I've kind of dropped off in the last few minutes here, because I got really into what
Scott was saying. And, and I want to say, Scott has been detrimental in moving
our community forward in multiple different ways.
So he says he's very... Scott, I don't think you've been detrimental to anything, but...
Instrumental. There we go. Yeah, instrumental. Sorry, I'm not great with my words, but I think
there's a few items that... Scott is a growth inhibitor.
Oh, wait. So just quickly, did we, did I, you briefly touched on James's question, right?
Yeah, I think I answered it. The answer is wherever you take them from top, middle or bottom,
separate them in the tray if you take that many clones.
Yeah, that question.
Yeah, right.
All right, guys, I'm gonna bail out. So thanks so much. This has been, this has been really great.
Dinner time here for the family. So I gotta get going.
Thanks, Michael. See ya.
Thanks again. It was great. Yep.
I'm impressed with you, Michael, man. You're a solid dude, man. I'm really impressed with your
scientific tinkering.
And your lack of experience with sticking the same, man. Just keep evolving.
Thanks, man. It's always a pleasure, Scott.
Just quickly, Michael, do you have two minutes?
Yeah. Yeah, go ahead.
Can you give us a... So I want to, I'll start with you, but like, you guys are all hummingbirds who
are seeing a lot of farms across a lot of geographic area. So like, talk to me the state
of the Colorado market.
Yeah, well, you know, it's true. We are kind of in this like central kind of hub of activity with
commercial and private markets, you know, all over the US and Canada. We do a bunch of business in,
you know, all over the world. But, you know, Colorado, I mean, state of the market.
I don't know.
Are growers happy right now? Are they going to get good prices per pound in the fall harvest?
The culmination of what I'm hearing from everybody. Yeah. So people tell me all kinds
of stuff on the phone and sometimes I'm surprised how much they tell me. And, you know, so I hear
different things and I hear about different kinds of numbers and things like that. And
it seems like they're really high right now. Like the people are getting, you know, in like
the mid 20, like 24, 25 a pound right now. And they're the kind of, I don't know, you know,
sounds like it might be a dry, sounds like it might be kind of a lower volume fall,
kind of a dry fall. So prices could easily maintain this. Is what I'm hearing and that's
this kind of scuttlebug among the community that, you know, chats my ear when we talk.
I don't know. I wouldn't know personally, but, you know, that's the kind of stuff I hear as far
as like the commercial stuff, you know, I don't know. I haven't actually shopped at a dispensary.
So what are people telling you? Because I know you would not know yourself. Traditional market
pricing per pound would be for...
It's going to get you censored on YouTube people.
I mean, you know, you know, as the same with anything, it's anything's only worth as much
as someone's willing to pay for it. You know, but you know, I think it's going to be 4,000
a pound this fall. That's my prediction. Let's just keep it at that. Oh, who knows? I mean,
I don't know. I don't know. And I wouldn't know. I've never really been there before. So
all right. Well, with that, we will let you get to dinner. And then Scott and Tyler,
I'm going to turn it to you.
All right. Thanks, guys.
I want to hear these answers. I want to hear your answers.
So people you're talking to, like, are they happy? I mean,
obviously there's the regulated market. There's a traditional market.
But like, if you're in the regulated market, getting your nuts kicked every day,
when prices go up, it feels a little less painful. So what are you seeing with...
I mean, you're both in NorCal, right? So the geographic area you cover,
tell me where that is. And then like, are people happy?
And you're talking for me, right?
Yeah.
For you and Scott.
It's a very dry season. I've got people calling me just assuming that I know where a whole bunch
of weed is, which is kind of frustrating. I'm like, yeah, no, you know, there's a lot of things
that some people say on the phone to us that we wish they wouldn't say. So I'll be completely
honest about that. There's stuff that we don't want to know and stuff that we don't want to see.
But yeah, overall, generally, people are very happy right now. I've got
white market and black market customers. They're both very, very happy. Things are
going in the right direction, especially if they can find product and produce it.
So we're doing a new project for a local company that's an indoor flower producer.
And they're going to order a whole bunch of custom beds from us.
And they've decided to make a custom modification that Eric Branstad wanted to put in place years
ago that now they've discovered. So that's another person I've got to put a lot of love to is towards
Eric. And earlier, I didn't get to say, we want to get rid of the bro science, not the,
bring in the actual real science. And that's what Scott is talking about. But price-wise...
By the way, do you remember who made that comment?
You?
Was that me?
No, no, no, no.
It was Clackamas Coot.
Oh, was it?
Yeah.
Well, yeah, let's apply science. Let's keep the numbers out. But, you know, personal-wise,
I see people really, really high-end indoor that really, you know, you've got the guava or some of
the crazy names right now on the black market. I see them going as high as 42 in LA and Sacramento.
And it's kind of like, if you've got it and you've got the quality, you can almost name the price
you want right now because of how dry things are. And I believe licensed white market people with
very high quality have been doing that for the last six months to a year. And it's so dry that
people who wouldn't ever go to a dispensary and bear to pay those prices or bear to support
corporate are going there. You don't have a choice just because so many people have been busted
locally. There was Eldorado County that was busting over 20 farms a weekend. So they were
coming down, cutting everything down. One of my biggest customers lost three properties out there.
It's just, you know, massive changes going on in the market. Things are swinging massively.
And if you can get a successful crop out on either side of things, you're going to be doing really
well. So healthy plants win.
Yeah. And unfortunately, markets are usually correlated to rates too. So it's not necessarily
a, you know, you got to be careful bragging about good markets because it's usually people,
usually means good quality. And so, you know, I think it's a good thing to have a good market.
And I don't want to be afraid of regurgitating your company because
it's all risk. I don't want to Tuesday and God knows what else people do after
they have, you know, left through a tote back now. So don't do things on your own
because if you do, then you're buying all these small decisions on your ears and
then even outside of the store entrance, doors are getting knocked down.
The market...
can't be hearing any shit I got to say.
So I, a lot of times the older markets
are at least interested in what I have to say
because I'm kind of a newcomer to their world.
But yeah, markets are strong here.
Pretty much everything's selling.
One thing I can tell you is if you're doing living soil,
it always gets a higher ticket.
So whatever you're doing,
whether it's on the traditional markets
or the regulated markets,
our living soil clients are always getting more
than the hydro people, plain and simple.
I mean, it's interesting because I feel like,
take a dispensary like 99 High Tide in Malibu.
I've always felt like if they could pitch
their yoga juicing clientele,
we have living soil, organic, healthy,
sun-grown weed versus whatever, like hydro indoor,
that the Malibu crowd would be like,
I would love to buy that at a premium price.
I don't know, man.
I always think that and I always hope for that,
but the average consumer is remarkably uneducated.
Most of them go for like the rock gardens,
bargain basement shit,
and they don't understand the impact
that has on the market and small farmers.
I think that's why we need to educate people more.
Like there's a new, there's a OCal coming out,
which is organic program for California.
And it's just as horrible as the organic food strategies.
There's, like Kevin said on that last podcast I was on,
it's like 12 pages of instruction
and 37 pages of penalties.
And that's not good.
We need to educate the consumer on what living soil is.
And then we need to quantify living soil.
And there's a lot of people
that get the different certifications
and we've worked with these people
and they're using like Michael Butano and shit,
but they've got various labels.
And I've been less impressed with some of the more popular,
I'm not trying to single anybody out
or talk shit or nothing.
But what I'm trying to say
is that we need an actual certification
that actual educates the consumer
on the benefits of living soil.
And then we need to actually have integrity
with quantifying that property
and not just like stick a stamp on everything.
Because OCal is coming,
I don't think there's much value to OCal.
I think what really needs to happen
is we need to educate the consumer
on the benefits of living soil.
And by whatever method you get to that living soil,
that you quantify that you're actually living,
because if the soil has adequate biological populations
and you have adequate nutrient cycling,
you have very low pests and disease issues.
We have zero farms with mold.
That's the easiest thing to deal with.
If you're battling mold, you're not doing a living soil.
There's something wrong.
You're off in some way.
Powdery mildew is by far the easiest thing
to deal with in living soil.
So right away, if you're actually quantifying living soil,
you're actually doing living soil,
you completely eliminate powdery mildew problems,
flavors, control products,
take all that shit out of the system.
You get a way higher quality product.
And then pests, it's not magic,
but when people follow the instructions,
when people dictate what they do in the cultivation space
by what the biological populations are doing,
you can do a remarkable reduction in pest products
and pest issues for sure.
And so we need to educate the consumer on that.
Because you can still use a whole bunch of nasty shit
and be organically certified.
And that's not really better.
Scott, would you say a lot of people are lacking
certain minerals in their living soil systems
or not addressing the minerals correctly?
Yeah, that's the other main component.
And a lot of people throw me into the Elaine Ingham camp
and think that everything I think
or everything that she thinks I also think,
and that's not true.
I believe that you have to put a very, very solid effort
into mineral balancing in the soils.
And what's been completely lost on the entire community
is that the system is remarkably static.
And so there's soil recipes that are very specific,
like cups per cubic foot.
And those can be fine in certain instances,
and they can be extremely problematic in other instances.
And then what ends up happening in practice,
because again, my job is coming in after all,
the things have been applied,
and usually it's after problems have happened,
we try to figure out what the problem is.
So we immediately start with a mineral analysis
and a biological analysis.
More often than not,
the strategy that people have been taking
for top dressing and amending
has skewed the mineral balance of that soil away from ideal.
And that's where the problems start.
So yeah, if you're,
like, I wanna back up for a second.
So the comment about the bro science versus real science,
people get really offended
when that comes into the conversation,
because they immediately turn it into like a class warfare,
or like, what I'm saying is only right,
and there's no intuitive qualities.
And I don't say that at all.
I'm definitely an advocate of intuitive strategies.
I'm definitely an advocate
of getting in tune with your garden.
But we've been remarkably detuned
by popular trends in Instagram.
We need to recalibrate our own intuition,
and we need to do some quantification of our process.
So, if you're,
I understand that there's budgets,
and I've been in positions
where I had zero money to do anything.
And that's one of the attractive aspects of living in soil,
because legitimately you can sprinkle some aloe vera
on there and get a good crop.
And so I wanna be very mindful and respectful
to the people that have very limited budgets,
because I've absolutely been there myself.
But if you have any overhead of your cultivation space,
and you're not at least doing a $68 test from Logan Labs,
like you're blowing it.
Like you have no clue where you're at
or what you need to do.
And what ends up happening is,
if you can do a single mineral analysis
from any one of the labs that are respectable that we use,
you can know what needs to be put in.
And you can actually save money
by not adding things that you already have too much of,
or not adding things that don't need to be added at all.
And so it actually becomes more economical,
because you're only gently adding
what needs to be put in there.
And you'd be really shocked
at how little the amendment recommendations we give are.
It's a couple of hundred grams of two or three products.
It's not these massive top dress amounts
that people just feel compulsed to do.
Like what you need to do is,
you need to measure that soil.
You need to identify that the quantity of nutrients
is adequate to raise a good crop.
And then you need to bring it into balance.
That's the actual most economical strategy by far.
Can you give an example or two of like recent,
without naming names,
so you don't get fired from the projects,
but farms you've been on where you've analyzed
and you've been like,
you just need a tiny bit of this or that.
Yeah, it's literally all of them really,
because the other thing too,
is you can only add so much at one time.
By far the worst soil we've ever seen
missed the mark quite a bit.
And I think on a math basis,
it would have taken like 12 to 14 cycles
to bring back into balance.
So that's three years of amending
the maximum amount you can add on
because of the capital.
Were you psyched to have that conversation with the client?
It didn't go well.
It didn't go well for sure,
but they reacted and had a remarkable change
from harvest one to harvest two.
And so you gotta give kudos to them reacting
and making the change.
So they did,
a lot of times what happens
is people don't wanna stop the clock.
We gotta keep that conveyor belt running.
And this particular farm saw that data,
acknowledged that it was a problem,
acknowledged that it would be very costly
to wait a year or two to bring the soil into balance.
They did a tremendous re-blending of the soil,
let it set for a little bit,
and then they hit the ground running
and they like doubled their yield on harvest two.
So in that strategy, it was extremely effective.
And that's,
the most common thing we see
is people take a very static mineral amendment top dress
that's recommended by the various online retailers
or established facilities.
And there's a lot of considerations
that needs to go into that.
One of that is the weight of your soil.
If you're measuring the nutrients in a soil,
I prefer to get it in parts per million
because I think it's the easiest to address
for our types of soil.
Part per million is what we call a weight by weight analysis.
And so to get a part per million,
you have to quantify grams versus kilograms, so to speak.
You have to measure the weight of nutrients in the soil
and the weight of the soil.
And the relationship between the weight of minerals
and the overall weight of the soil
is what determines the PPM.
And so the weight of your soil is extremely important
in the considerations for the top dresses you make.
I do a presentation for some of our clients.
I probably showed too much if I tried to pull it up,
but nonetheless, we had two soil tests done.
One was one I took and one was an employee took.
And I'm not sure what happened,
but the employee, the test that the employee took
was remarkably varied from the reality of the soil.
And so if I would have made the calcium correction
for the soil based on that lab test,
it would have been 80 grams of oyster shell
to increase the calcium 20%.
Based on the test that I took
that I felt was a little bit more accurate,
it would have taken a thousand grams of calcium
to increase that calcium level 20%.
And so when you talk about the amount of an amendment
that's added to the top of the soil,
the weight of the soil is what determines
how that amendment is going to affect the soil.
This is, in my opinion, one of the reasons why
there's so much rock dust crammed into the living soils.
When you cram all that rock dust into the living soil,
you're effectively increasing the weight of that soil,
you're increasing the mineral density of that soil,
and thereby dilutes the effect,
anything you do to it does.
That's why they're more stable.
That's why people do it.
You're muted, Mike.
Yeah, I'm out of here, guys.
Have a good night.
Thanks so much.
It was fun.
Yeah, I hope we can do it again sometime.
Have a good dinner.
All right, take it easy.
Yeah, bye.
That was so cool.
That shake mug came over his shoulder.
I was like, oh my God.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
All right, so yeah, I'm trying to...
Hold on.
While we got some dead time,
I just want to reiterate that fact.
I want to be really careful how people view
what I'm trying to contribute to the market.
I'm not saying that my analysis
is the only analysis that's effective.
We need to be intuitive gardeners,
but at the same time, you need to quantify your process.
If it's a total hobby for you,
and you have a job that pays for your electric bill
and it's a total hobby, fine.
If you're at least even running a four lighter
or any sort of commercial facility
that has a measurable electric bill,
like when I was in Southern California
in an expensive zone,
running a four lighter was a thousand dollar
a month electric bill.
Like, you know, do a $68 mineral test
to make sure you're not blowing that $4,000
in electric bill to get that crop off, you know?
That's all I'm saying.
Do you think the future is in sap testing
or is it in the future?
I think it's in the future.
Do you think the future is in sap testing as well?
I think there's some remarkable advantages
to doing the right type of sap analysis.
You know, the traditional agricultural method
for leaf analysis, I think is remarkably worthless.
They've been doing it forever
and even other agricultural advisors
say that it's worthless.
What they do in the traditional agricultural realm
is they take the leaf, they ash it down, they call it,
so they burn it down,
and then they analyze the ash.
But like, you can't tell me that one,
the nutrients aren't changing
when you burn the shit out of it.
And two, it measured nutrients
that are on the outside of the leaf, not inside the leaf.
We only care what made it to the inside.
So I've not been an advocate of any sort of leaf analysis.
Now you're starting to see like apical or apical,
however they say it up in Oregon,
they're doing a leaf sap analysis
that pulls out this sap.
Those tests have been pretty remarkably effective
in fine tuning.
Nick Tomasini, who does Humankind Oregon,
he's doing a lot of that.
And I mean, you know, he's kicking ass.
He's doing some remarkable stuff with those tests.
The problem with apical is
they don't take cannabis samples by mail.
So I only have a couple of clients at one time
where I can even utilize that strategy.
There's a company in the Netherlands called NovaCorp
or NovaCorp, NovaCrop.
They developed a plant sap strategy
that pulls the sap out and analyzes it for agriculture.
That stuff is absolutely amazing.
But again, it's been out of the reach of cannabis.
I have been told, I think it was you Tyler,
that told me that Advancing Ecoagriculture
set up one of those labs
and they're allowing cannabis samples.
If that's the truth, that's pretty legit.
I don't think that's happening,
but I was able to find through David
that does our concentrated biology.
He has somebody out in Michigan
and their lab is called New Age Labs
and a cool lady named Jenny runs it.
And she used to work for Advanced Ecoagriculture.
And I filled out a little contact form
on the New Age website.
And she called me and gave me instructions
on how to send in my leaf samples and went through.
You know, I was like,
I wanna make sure they weren't doing the ashen of the leaf
and they're actually checking out the sap of the plant.
But are you sending that leaf from,
so this is earlier today I was having a conversation
about sending samples across state lines.
Are you sending that outside California?
So it's, yes.
And I'm marking it as hemp on there.
They have some amazingly great instructions
that tell you to use the US Postal Service
and not anybody else.
You obviously have to ship your sample super fast overnight
and it's $75 a sample.
I've sent out, I did one leaf analysis a couple of weeks ago
and found out that I was just maxed out on nitrogen
and I was really lacking copper, boron, iron and manganese.
So makes a lot of sense with what Scott was saying
that you have a lot of calcium,
you have a higher pH level, which was totally true.
It was 7.2.
So this call is really,
this conversation has really helped me
quantify more and more.
But I did the leaf sample analysis
and then just sent out on Monday,
a new set of leaf sample analysis
to see if I'm able to correct everything
because the one thing I haven't been able to quantify is,
okay, I need these minerals,
but nobody's telling me how much per gallon or what to do.
So I am still kind of flying off the hip,
but trying to have as much science applied to it as possible.
Yeah.
So I just tried, let me just double check real quick.
I'm pulling up one.
I'm just making sure I got the name off of here
so I don't blow it.
But I'll show you guys what I do.
Let me just double check real quick
that I'm not putting dude's name on it.
Ah, see, I just fucking blew it.
Hold on.
Oops.
There we go.
So I'm just making sure I got the name off
before I do it.
And I just moved the thing.
So there's no name, no.
Yeah, okay.
So let me pull that off and let me pull this up
and then where do I do share screen?
Okay.
So I'm gonna share, you can see my desktop now?
Yeah.
Okay, so let me minimize this, get that out of the way.
Okay, so this is,
oh, there you go.
That was cool.
It's all blacked out.
Yeah, well, it kind of moved for a second.
Let me get this out of the way.
Okay, so this is one of the reports from Apical.
And let me zoom in here.
So what they're doing is they're looking at a new leaf
and an old leaf.
And this is by far the most important thing.
None of this leaf analysis gives you any advantage
unless you're comparing a new and an old
because we're still establishing what's correct.
We're still establishing the goal is.
What's actually usable about this
is the variation between new and old leaves.
And so this is what their test looks like.
Being really careful not to move the name.
Well, it's, dude, I don't think people realize.
You could lose another client.
I legitimately lost a client by using the example
of the blue mats in the last show I was on
because I didn't realize the investor was watching
and I kind of pointed to the stupidity
of getting a 20% increase
and not blue matting your whole life.
But nonetheless, they do a bunch of.
While I'm laughing, I do apologize for that.
Oh, you're good, dude.
It's cool.
Peter, I just sent you my sap tests
to put on there if you want to,
but please do not show the top part
that has my name and address on it.
Yeah.
You're putting a lot of pressure on me.
All right, so here we go.
Focus, ADD.
All right, so these are the elements that they do.
What's really important is the difference
between the new and the old.
So this is sometimes really hard to understand.
And so this is what I do with it.
I put it into a different chart.
And so it makes it a little bit easier to read.
And so deficiencies of mobile nutrients
are indicated by lower PPM readings in old leaves
when compared to the new leaves,
meaning the plant is not moving nutrients
from the old leaves to the new leaves.
A surplus of mobile nutrients is indicated
by a higher PPM reading in the old leaves
compared to the new leaves,
meaning that there's a surplus
or a bank of nutrients in the older leaves
being ready to be moved into the new leaves.
And then an excess is indicated
when the new leaf contains less than 50% of the old leaf.
And this is kind of confusing and counterintuitive
because you think, well, why is that an excess?
What that actually means is the plant is shedding it.
And so I separate mobile nutrients versus immobile nutrients
so that it can be a little bit more sensical.
And then I color code them.
So in this particular situation,
we were having a really bizarre plant health phenomenon
and we were trying to figure out what it was.
In this particular case,
so you have number two and number eight,
these are different plants that we took
before the change and after the change.
Before the change,
there was a slight deficiency of calcium.
And then after this particular change happened,
it actually moved to an excess.
This was a really, really unique situation.
But nonetheless, it gave us an indication
of what's happening with the plant.
And so just a bird's eye view,
if we look at just number two prior,
we've got a surplus of phosphate,
we've got a deficiency of potassium,
we have a surplus of magnesium,
we have a surplus of chloride, which can be problematic.
This is iodine, sodium, molybdenum was pretty neutral.
You go to the immobile nutrients,
we started out with a deficiency of calcium
that led to an excess.
And then what I do is I come down here.
So this, it's really important to see the variation.
So then I highlight anything
that's more than 100% variation.
It helps you zone in and single in
on what's happening on a little zoom.
So we've got an issue with phosphate,
we've got an issue with magnesium,
we have an issue with chloride,
we've got an issue with boron, sulfur and calcium.
And so the percentage variation becomes very valuable.
So what you start to see is,
you know, what you start to see with that is
where are the nutrients going?
Where are they starting at and where are they going?
And, you know, I just gotta give a shout out too
to Nick Tomasini, like I wouldn't know any of this stuff
if it wasn't for him.
So I'm, you know, in a lot of ways,
regurgitating what he's coached me on.
So I just wanna be, you know, appropriate about that.
But, you know, I've only been able to use this
on a couple of farms.
It's hard to get them, you know, into the lab
while not making a felony or whatever the hell happens.
Vacuum seal, Clorox wipe, shimple mouth.
All right, so Tyler, this is your,
is this your sap analysis we're looking at?
No, that's my saturated paste test.
The other one, the last one I sent you was a sap analysis.
Okay, we can still dissect this.
So starting, so vertical columns are samples.
We've got a sample for bed one, bed two, bed three.
The first thing I look at is what's called
the total exchange capacity.
That is two things.
One, it's the amount of parking spaces that are available
in the parking lot, so to speak.
But it also, on this particular test,
it's a quantification of how much calcium,
magnesium, potassium, and sodium.
There's a formula that takes into consideration
what they consider the exchangeable cations
or the base cations.
And it goes into this big formula
and spits out this exchange capacity.
When I look at that number,
I'm looking at the exchange capacity
as if it is the bank account balance, so to speak.
So we have a 15, we have a 21, and a 22.
So if you look at like a build a soil light,
like they offer like a build a soil light,
which is a mineral balanced, but low quantity of nutrients,
that's like a 15.
I'd say for living soil,
that's at the lower end of total nutrient pool.
When you start to get above 20, 25,
that's a larger nutrient pool,
which you have to take into the consideration.
The larger the nutrient pool,
the more minerals it's gonna take
to affect change on that soil, so it can be expensive.
And so there is kind of a strategy when making soil
to aim for an exchange capacity
that's enough to be a capacity of nutrients,
but not so much that you can affect change.
So I'd say 15s at the lower end,
21 to 22 is at the higher end for a starting soil
to be good.
And then you have the pH.
So we have seven one, six four, and seven two.
If you scroll down a little bit,
you can see why six four,
so if you can scroll down a little bit
to show the gray boxes,
you can see that you might not be able to scroll,
but if you can't scroll,
you can just look at the gray boxes.
So you have the darker gray boxes,
it says calcium 60 to 70%,
magnesium, potassium, two to 5%.
There you go.
Okay.
So, oops, now we got roots.
Now we got you.
There we go.
Okay.
So I think for some considerations,
there's some that would argue with me,
but I think there's still some merit.
So if you look at the base saturation,
this is a quantification of how much the soil particle
is occupied by a given element.
Dr. Albrecht back in the 30s and 40s,
completely dissected soils like you wouldn't believe
and came up with these ratios.
He feels that for an ideal soil structure,
you need roughly 68% calcium, 12% magnesium,
and 4% potassium.
And if you look at the center column,
for the center column, that is 68% roughly, 13% and 4%.
And what was the pH of that sample?
6.4.
And that bed is raging right now, man.
Like I can't even tell you those plants are growing
a few inches a day.
I bet.
So let's see why.
Okay.
So the pH is 6.4.
You know, there's some people that argue the targets
of 68, 12 and four are not ideal.
I think that they're at least, you know,
a good goal to start with.
We see anywhere up to like seven to 9% of potassium
work really well, but we do try to keep the calcium
around 66, 68% and the magnesium around, you know,
12 to 14%.
The difference between calcium and magnesium
will determine the soil structure
because calcium is pushing away clay and soil particles.
Magnesium is pulling them together.
And so it's a push pull relationship.
And so on the other two samples,
you have high calcium and high magnesium.
And so what's gonna end up happening is
either from excessive flocculation.
So calcium flocculates, which means spreads out.
You have excessive flocculation
and you have water infiltration and soil structure issues.
When magnesium is high, you have a constriction issue
and the same phenomenon kind of happens, best I understand.
So now if you look at this other value,
so you have the sodium,
we're trying to have that at 1.5% or less.
So that's actually good for cannabis soil.
A lot of those numbers are really high.
There's an insane amount of sodium in our cannabis system.
And that also plays into water infiltration and whatnot.
The other bases and exchangeable hydrogen
or other items that they measure on the soil test,
you notice that both the samples of column one
and column three have a zero for exchangeable hydrogen.
I believe hydrogen is a negatively charged ion
and you will not have those show up on the test
until your pH is below like seven.
And so the soil that's 6.4 has a nine.
I'm not at all the expert on that value,
but there's a certain amount of exchangeable hydrogen
that we need to have healthy exchange of nutrients
in the soil, so to speak.
And so when your pH is above seven,
you're missing out on this phenomenon.
Now on the other side,
if you do like an extremely high fish hydrolysate feed
and you're dumping high doses of fish into your soil,
the weirdest phenomenon happens in that
you get a tremendous amount of exchangeable hydrogen.
When that exchangeable hydrogen starts to get above 20,
we start to see like root aphid issues.
We had two farms this past year
that were doing high doses of fish hydrolysate.
Granted it was partly at my direction,
so I got to own that,
but those exchangeable hydrogen values got really high.
The farm that had an exchangeable hydrogen as a 22
had a root aphid problem that was somewhat controllable.
He was able to insert some predator insects,
get the soil more aerobic,
and then those root aphids were able to go away
in a two to three week period.
The farm that had an exchangeable hydrogen of like 30 to 50,
they had an almost biblical aphid problem.
So it's interesting how all these things interplay.
And a lot of times people say,
you don't need to measure pH of nutrient feeds
for living soil.
And admittedly, I was one of those people
that said it early on,
but I do know now that if the pH of your res feed
is remarkably low because of high nitrogen,
like in a fish feed or a strong fish feed,
you're gonna drive that pH down over time.
You're gonna increase that exchangeable hydrogen value,
and you're gonna run into biblical aphid problems,
which is exactly what's going on right now.
Exactly.
So if you cut back on some of those high nitrogen feeds,
that exchangeable hydrogen will start to mellow out
and it'll start to minimize,
but it takes high biological activity and time.
If you have an exchangeable hydrogen of like 25,
that's gonna take a harvest or two to bring down
if you stop offending it.
The farm that got up into 30 to 50s, we replaced the soil
just because they couldn't afford to keep battling issues.
So not everything I do is perfect.
We fuck some shit up periodically.
But you just gotta learn and adapt.
You gotta own that.
That's what we do.
That's the one thing that Dr. Lanningham
does not get enough credit for.
That woman never stops evolving.
We got people that are still shouting the same information
from 2012 with no change to their process
despite horrendous bug problems.
Elaine notifies everybody, like we still take her classes
when she offers a new course, I take it.
And by doing that, you keep tapped into her evolution.
And if she realizes that something is off,
for the most part, she makes an adjustment.
And there was recently some major changes
that all of us are adapting to so that we,
as soil food web practitioners that apply
these microscope techniques are all accurate
and accountable with each other.
And that's another thing that doesn't get enough credit.
People don't understand that we go through great lengths
to maintain the accuracy of what we're doing.
We go through great lakes to calibrate each other.
Nick Tomasini and I will share samples.
Catalyst Bio Amendments and us will exchange
compost samples and count it.
And we'll both count it and say, what'd you get?
And we all meet, we all aggregate.
We try to at least do it once a year.
And normally we'll just send compost to each other.
So I'll take my compost, I'll count it.
Actually, the wife counts it.
She'll send it to Catalyst or Nick or whatever,
or Eli Baraha, Bahia, how he say his last name,
or Kira Soil, Ian, any of these people.
We're calibrating each other regularly
so that when we say things,
we're maintaining a certain level of integrity and accuracy
so that we can move everybody forward.
And I think that's something
that doesn't get enough credit, personally.
We have to take stock of what we're doing.
We have to take stock of the things that we're saying.
Part of sustainability is staying in business.
If I give bad advice and it puts farm out of business,
it doesn't matter how dready or heady I am.
If I'm putting farms out of business,
that's not sustainable at all.
And I think the living soil community in particular
has a remarkable lack of accountability
for the things that they say and how that affects farms.
I come from hydro.
One of my buddies, one of my hydroponic mentors,
Randy Patton, built one of the largest farms
in California for rockwool.
They have the most shelf space in the state of California.
I've seen hydro.
I've seen really good hydro.
I've seen very large hydro.
I've seen living soil.
I feel like hydroponic world
has a little bit more accountability.
Jungle boys threw up some janky ass plants,
they would not have it.
People would eat them alive.
But like our living soil mentors
can cut out their whole garden every year
and they're still guru.
That's crazy to me.
Need more accountability.
And the way that we provide accountability to the market
is by quantifying the things that we say
and quantifying the things that we do.
Well said, Scott.
Well said.
And again, I'm not perfect.
Like I eat shit on this own podcast
telling dude that was a dumb idea.
And I'm like, you know, come on man.
Like, you know, if coronavirus has not told you
the fragility of our world,
you're not paying attention, man.
And this like half ass pseudoscience
or this half ass pseudo regenerative shit
ain't gonna cut it.
Like we need people to step up.
We need people to provide actionable solutions
to keep regenerative farms in business.
You know, if we give advice that puts a farm
out of business, we need to check that shit.
We need to reevaluate with our own selves,
myself included.
Like there's been some things that I've said
over the years that I now change.
I, you know, there was some early on things
I had with trichoderma.
You know, I was basing my decisions off of things
that I saw at that time
and saw that trichoderma was problematic.
And I believe what Dr. Lane was saying about
it was problematic.
We had some microscope analysis
that showed it was problematic.
But like as the time goes on,
I'm personally starting to see
that it's not that problematic.
What was actually happening in the situations
where I was seeing that the trichoderma was problematic
is that we had cultivators that weren't being honest
with us about everything that we were doing.
So we were quantifying their process
with the understanding that one factor
was creating a problem.
And we weren't being told, like I said,
I get 10 to 20%.
So I have to form my basis and my opinion
of how I do things based on what I'm seeing
in the cultivation space.
And a lot of times I have to assume
what these cultivators are doing
because literally none of our clients
are 100% transparent with us
because like was said earlier on,
they wanna, even though they let us into the kitchen
and let us see deep into the heart of what they're doing
and it's very vulnerable,
they don't tell us everything.
And that's fair.
I don't blame them for that.
But that does lead to situations
where I form opinions that need to change.
One of those is on trichoderma
and I've changed my stance on trichoderma.
You know, and there's some other things.
Has your stance changed on neem?
Fuck no.
Neem is perfect.
What's your stance on molasses and compost teas?
I don't do any compost tea.
I think compost tea is the number one crop loss culprit
in all the living soil.
Nobody wants to hear that.
People that are really emotionally attached to their tea
hate me for that and that's fine.
But the reality is compost tea is by far
the most problematic thing that we do.
When I started getting into Dr. Elaine's courses
and started getting very close with her,
you know, I put a tremendous amount of effort
to earn the opportunity to work very closely
with that woman and I did.
And during that time period in 2014, 2015,
we started to see a change in effectiveness of strategies
that came from using a compost extract.
Compost extract is far more effective
in every way than compost tea.
And literally, literally the number one cause of problems
are teabrewers, teabrewing recipes,
and teabrewing techniques.
And we've quantified them all, you know,
like you would not believe.
I, when I first, yeah, very good.
I was just gonna say, I don't think people understand
that they're breeding a population.
And if you don't know which direction
that population is going, how do you know
if that's a good, beneficial, well diverse population
or if that population is full of a bunch of,
you know, very bad guys?
Exactly, and that comes from the analysis.
And, you know, unfortunately, the early analysis
that people did with other labs was very hard to interpret.
And, you know, like, you know, one particular person
in particular was very influential
on the cannabis growing community.
And back in 2014, I remember going onto his website,
looking at the Earth Fort report
that was supposed to be championing, championing, championing,
was supposed to be confirming
that his teabrewer was appropriate.
Nobody knew how to read that stuff,
including the operator that put it up on his website.
And I do understand those and I did interpret them.
And on the back in the notes, it said, tea is anaerobic.
Consider adding aeration, consider reducing foods.
But like that was on Homeboy's website for five years
until I started talking about it.
Now it's pulled off.
But, you know, we've been remarkably misled
from the difficulty in understanding these reports
and interpreting these reports
and using that as actionable strategies.
And then what starts to really complicate that is ego.
You know, the people that are making teabrewers,
you know, they don't use microscope analysis
to analyze their process.
They use capitalistic strategies to analyze their process.
And they say, what set of components are profitable
for me to put together this machine,
make it easy to ship and bring it to market?
That's the determining factor is not,
can I make a teabrew that conforms to Dr. Alain's standards
and repeat that?
And the reality is you cannot.
We tried.
I've used every single teabrewer on the market
like you can imagine.
And we've spent time in the early years at farms
trying to make them repeatable and it's impossible.
And, you know, I don't speak about these things publicly
because if you start to attack capitalistic markets,
you get attacked.
And so I don't say this stuff publicly,
but I mean, I've got much to lose at this point.
The world's ending, coronavirus is going rampant.
You're gonna die.
You might as well get good information
and you might as well be accountable.
So, you know, the people that are the most outspoken
against using microscope analysis,
those are people that are afraid of accountability
because using the microscope analysis
to quantify your instructions or to quantify your equipment
or to quantify your process requires accountability.
And you have to say, man, you know,
the advice I'm giving is negatively affecting
microbial communities or this teabrewing equipment
I created is not producing healthy tea.
And it is not adhering to the standards
that Dr. Lane-Ingham defines as the populations needed
to affect positive change.
And, you know, in the early years,
I tried to be very helpful.
Like Grassroots is literally one of two companies
that has been responsive to the feedback that we're giving.
Like I've given feedback to everybody you can imagine,
every online retailer, every producer of products,
I've given feedback.
And, you know, Grassroots and Sustainable Village
are the only two people really, or Organic's Alive.
I'll say that Organic's Alive
has been remarkably responsive.
So three people, Organic's Alive, Grassroots,
and Sustainable Village have responded to the analysis
that we've provided of the market to them.
And they've acted on that accountability.
You know, Rich has said, hey, yeah,
we're getting good results from this change.
Let's make the change.
You know, Michael and Steve at Sustainable Village,
they are remarkably responsive to the feedback
me and my buddy, Corey, have been giving them since 2014.
And they adapt.
And, you know, and they're not afraid to say,
hey, Scott, you're wrong.
Like, that's dope of Mike to live on YouTube
and be like, you're wrong.
And I have to be confident enough in myself
to say, you're right, I am wrong.
And that's what's really lacking in this industry.
Organic's Alive is the same way.
Like, they've been insanely reactive
to the advice that we've given them.
And that's turned into the products they're offering now.
Actually, because I know Todd and Eric,
can you give some of the recommendations
that you gave them?
I don't know if that would be appropriate.
But I can say what, you know,
I have to be really mindful and careful
of taking credit for other people's work.
So I don't think that I, you know,
created those soluble powders,
but it was the dialogue that we've had since 2014
that definitely led to those products.
And I'm sure they were working on it,
but I just, you know, they've been very active.
They've come to every workshop I've ever put on.
They've literally been at every single workshop
I've ever put on.
They've sat in the audience, they've take notes.
We have a phenomenal dialogue.
You know, they came by the start facility there,
the clone nursery we showed.
They saw my tea brewing tank,
and within 14 days they had that stainless steel brewer
up on their website.
The stout tank that we brought in?
Yeah.
So I mean, that's what I'm saying.
Like, they're tapped into the market.
They're watching it.
They're reacting to it without ego.
And you know, what Organic's Alive doesn't say
about their products because they're surfers,
and surfers just let their work talk.
They don't go out there and run their mouth.
So coming from SoCal, I appreciate that.
Their products are zero waste.
Like, it doesn't get any more sustainable
than those soluble powders.
And they're fermented from organisms, and there's no waste.
Like, they're using a natural product
that is a waste stream, or not a waste stream,
but a product of agriculture.
They ferment it down with organisms
that somehow magically produces nitrogen, phosphate,
and potassium, and a little bit of other elements.
And they somehow separate the elements from the biology
so it's not biologically active,
and then they put it into those powders.
And so it solves a lot of concerns of sustainability.
We're not shipping liquids.
We're not wasting.
We're not destroying the environment, creating nutrients.
And you know, one teaspoon,
you know, one and a half grams of this powder
is enough to feed your plants that day.
And, you know, I think you're gonna see,
you know, three products in particular,
well, I guess four products in particular,
dramatically change the face of organic agriculture,
specifically cannabis.
One of those is blue mats.
One of those is the living soil lime pots from grassroots.
Third is the soluble powders from Organics Alive
and the fermented fulvic acid and humic acid products.
And the other one is the phyloscape kit from Soilscape.
That shit is badass.
Those four things allow you
to beat hydroponics on every metric, every metric.
Cost per square foot, growth rates, yield, potency,
the low presence of pests and disease pressure.
Literally those four things
with, you know, biological complete compost and soil.
So I guess 10 things, nonetheless.
However many things.
What I'm trying to say is those four products
are radically changing the face of agriculture
and you should get on that shit
because we're now seeing farms,
like Nick Tomasini works with food farms as well,
just like we do.
He's got a 70 acre grape farm that he's using some VPK on
because it doesn't have chloride and doesn't have sodium.
That's a major issue at scale.
And so, you know, I think Organics Alive
has finally gotten to the point
where their production is high enough
and their system is efficient enough
that they're able to start offering those products
at a lower price that seem more attractive.
I think what people don't understand about those products
is it's not a cost for cost thing.
Like they look at, you know, a tub that's 29 bucks
of one pound and they're like, ah, that's crazy.
Well, one pound of the powders makes, you know,
two to 700 gallons of feed.
Like can you get 700 gallons of feed
out of a one gallon of fish?
I don't, you know.
And they're the most soluble products I've ever seen.
Yeah. So soluble.
So yeah, you're gonna, out of a gallon of fish,
you're gonna get 75 gallons of feed.
So out of a gallon of a liquid of fish,
you're gonna get 75 to 100 gallons of feed.
Out of a pound of organics alive powder,
you're gonna get up to, you know,
two, five, 700 gallons of feed.
That doesn't even compare.
And when you put that together
with a full fertility strategy,
you rival the cost per square foot of, you know,
Ag salts, essentially, but the quality does not compare.
So when you're talking about competing
in a commercial market,
you are significantly lower in cost per square foot,
and your quality is not even comparable.
Like that is gonna change the face of agriculture.
Completely.
All right. So just quickly,
I need to cook cheeseburgers on the grill for the kids.
I posted, so either we can end it now,
or you guys can take a look at the chat
and a bunch of the questions,
because people are, there are a lot of questions.
Do you guys wanna just wrap it up,
or do you wanna go to some of those questions?
People are asking about Neem Scott.
You wanna touch that?
Yeah, so.
Okay, so I'll be, so you guys chat,
I'll be back in like five minutes.
Okay.
Can you guys handle that?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yes.
So the issue with Neem is there's a couple of things.
One, there's a contamination issue.
If you go on the Organic Department of Agriculture website,
they've done a tremendous amount of analysis
of the products we use in cannabis,
because they've led to test fails in a regulated state.
So whenever a cultivator uses a compound,
and it leads to a test fail,
or rather they have a test fail,
they don't know why,
because it's a compound they didn't choose,
and they go backwards in the stream
to identify that product.
Organic Department of Ag is extremely proactive
in sharing that information with people.
And so, you know, a lot of the Neem-based products
that are OMRI approved,
if you go look on the ODA website,
you can see all their bulletins.
If you Google Cannabis Pesticide Advisory, I think,
Organ ODA Pesticide Advisory,
you can see the whole list.
And it shows everything from advanced nutrients
that have aloe vera in them,
to OMRI approved products that have pesticides in them.
And then,
and,
so a lot of the OMRI approved Neem oils
might also come with four to six pesticides in them.
So that's one aspect, there's a contamination issue.
And that, I'm not sure why that happens.
Or actually I'm sure why it happens,
but if you say it publicly, you get sued.
So I'll leave that alone.
But nonetheless, you wanna look into that
to make sure you choose a good product.
And then the problem in living soil cannabis with Neem
is the, or really any agriculture,
is the concept that a compound that's antifungal
can be selected for only the bad things.
And this is the selling point of Neem Cake
is that it targets pathogens,
that somehow is unaffected to beneficial organisms.
And that's simply not the case.
If something is toxic to biological organisms,
it's usually pretty widespread
across all biological organisms
that it will have at least a measurable reduction
in populations.
And so the problems with Neem
and living soil cannabis particularly
is how those instructions changed.
And so the early instructions for using Neem Cake
are the most effective.
So the original instructions
were bubbling two tablespoons of Neem Cake
with one tablespoon of kelp per gallon.
And this is defined as a Neem tea.
And this is what's so paradoxical about Neem
is that it's a high nitrogen material.
And on the surface of high nitrogen seeds
are bacteria and the predators of bacteria, protozoa.
And so even when the material is compressed down
and turned into a cake,
those organisms still live on the surface of that.
And so in this really wild paradox
is that Neem Cake can in one sense
be remarkably antimicrobial.
It also brings with it a pretty desirable ratio
and diversity of bacteria and the predator of bacteria.
And so when you bubble two tablespoons of Neem Cake
with one tablespoon of kelp for 24 to 48 hours,
you actually can get a remarkable increase
and diversity of bacteria.
And then at a certain point,
those bacteria will grow to a certain population
and then the predators wake up
and they have a slightly slower life cycle.
So bacterias are growing every 20 minutes,
their predators are growing every couple hours maybe.
And there's a point where bacteria start to rise
and you see bacterial diversity.
And then all of a sudden you start to see the predators
and the real art of that Neem Tea
is getting accurate biology
with adequate levels of their predator.
That can be extremely powerful.
The problem with that is a solution of that Neem Tea
as they call it, that should be used
at like a one to 3% rate.
Like if I'm making up five gallons of feed,
only 1% of that should be that Neem Tea.
We were working with a lot of facilities
that would dump a whole five gallons of that shit
on a four by eight bed.
What would happen is you would have
a tremendous growth response
because essentially you just threw
the potential for nutrients in bacteria
and the potential for exchange in their predator
and it would release a tremendous amount of nutrients.
Dr. Lane defines this as a protozoan stoop
or protozoan infusion.
That can be extremely powerful.
Almost nobody uses it at the appropriate rates.
If you then-
That's a boom bust right there, right?
The best example of boom bust
and there's a lot of Russet mite issues
that came during that period.
And so I used to use that a lot
because when I first started
there was not biologically complete compost.
There was plenty of bacteria, there was no predators.
And so what I used to do is I would bring Neem Cake
and Kelp with me.
I would bubble it at a farm for 22 hours.
I would watch it.
So it would always be different
but I would be watching it and go,
okay, now it's time to harvest it.
And at appropriate dilution rates
I would add it to a compost extract.
And that way you can essentially install
the operating system of nutrient cycling.
Where people go wrong is they make a five gallon bucket
and they wanna use it all.
You need to be using like literally one to 3%
of the total water volume.
So if you make a compost extract of five gallons,
let's see, let's do math.
So if you do a five gallon bucket of compost extract
you need to be putting in half a cup
or less of this Neem Tea, something like that.
Oh no, that was not right, sorry.
It's probably tablespoons.
Yeah, no, that's right, yeah.
Anyways, but one to 3% is what you're after.
People will use the whole thing.
And then what kind of happened with the Neem thing
is they started adding it to soils.
And then ultimately once a business was created
to sell Neem cake, then we got the directions to top dress.
And that's really when all hell broke loose.
And again, the people making these instructions
are remarkably vocal against analyzing the process.
I've analyzed this process like you wouldn't believe.
We've done hundreds of gardens
following these exact instructions.
And unfortunately the people giving these advices
and instructions are lacking in accountability
for what they're instructing upon.
And there needs to be that level of accountability.
And so what ends up happening is
once you add the Neem cake to a soil,
if you add it at a certain percentage,
you get that beneficial inoculation of good bacteria
and the predator, so that's good.
It's a good nitrogen source, lots of trace minerals.
That's all beneficial, not arguing with that, that's great.
But there becomes a certain point
where it also becomes this little antimicrobial pocket.
Where shit really started to hit the fan
is when people were top dressing it
and they were told that you could not exceed
the desirable amount of top dressing.
What ends up happening is the top four inches of soil
are where all those biological organisms are happening.
If you put something antimicrobial on the top of that,
you essentially kill everything below it
because they're reliant on an exchange
between oxygen and the top.
So the top dressing of it is remarkably inappropriate.
Where it starts to get really complicated
for the living soil sector is people love to use Neem
as an IPM product.
So the benefit of using Neem oil as a IPM product
is you can spray plants going into flower with Neem oil
and you will have a certain amount of time
where there's no place for those bugs to feed.
And so you can very effectively break the life cycle
of those pests using the Neem oil.
And it leaves a film for several days or a week or something
where it does continue to inhibit
the ability of those bugs to establish.
So that's an extremely positive aspect of it.
The negative of it is all the Neem that drifts
onto the soil is remarkably antimicrobial to the soil.
And we measure this everywhere we go.
We had a farm that did a side-by-side trial.
We were monitoring and tracking the biological communities
in the soil for several weeks, several months,
couple of harvest cycles, something like that.
And then they sprayed Neem oil to one greenhouse
but not to the other greenhouse.
And we saw an 85% reduction
in beneficial soil organisms in the greenhouse
that got applied Neem oil spray
at an appropriate concentration
at a rate of two gallons per thousand square feet.
So that's an extremely low application rate
at the label recommended dose
and had an 85% reduction in organisms.
So what does that mean?
Okay, well, if you're using Neem oil going into flower
and you actually have biological populations
get up to a desirable level,
you have hit the desirable targets for nutrient cycling
and storage of nutrients and protection from pathogens.
And you spray that Neem oil going into flower,
you just sent yourself back in succession to a parking lot.
So now going into week one of flower
or week two of flower, week three of flower,
whenever you're doing this strategy,
when the plant is putting the greatest demand
on the delivery of nutrients,
you just completely wiped out
the nutrient producing potential of your soil.
And that transaction is where all flowering pests
and disease issues start from.
So the problem with Neem
is that it's remarkably antimicrobial.
And this is something we've been measuring since 2015, 2014
in our own gardens, in client gardens
to really remarkable scale.
We're talking 10, 20, 30,000 square foot buildings
that we're doing every strategy of Neem.
We've quantified it, man.
Major buildings, 60,000 square feet,
large, large, large living soil buildings.
So that's the problem.
The problem is we're being told it's selective for pathogens.
That's not the case.
If something is negatively impacting a biological organisms,
it's going to at least negatively impact all of them.
So that's why, that's most of the,
in 2017, I got tired of talking about the same shit
and I wanted to see the industry progress.
And I've taken a stance of being silent
and I don't share people's business.
Even the stuff I've shared here, I've already told you,
I've lost clients over what little comments I've said.
So I don't say anything.
And there was a lot of feedback I gave back
to the people that make those recommendations
and they didn't change
and they didn't look into them to themselves.
So finally one night in the middle of the night
when I was a little dabbed out,
I made an Instagram post saying how Neem was ridiculous.
And that's pretty much when the internet burnt down.
And that's really, really when the attacks of my character,
the attacks of my science, the attacks of my wife,
really ramped up.
And it's unfortunate that that's how people behave
in this industry when presented with the reality of what is.
And that's just what it is.
But what's kind of funny is my business doubled overnight.
Like I was kind of tired of all the shit
and I posted that post
and literally my business doubled overnight
because what I explained was the phenomenon
that everybody was experiencing.
And so all the sheeples and the people
that just don't think critically,
that just believe what other people tell them,
they didn't like me, but I'm not after those people.
I'm after the people that think critically
and those people called me and they said,
you described exactly what I've experienced.
How do I fix it?
And so I genuinely thank Clackamas Coop
for trying to burn me down
because he doubled my business overnight
because what it did was it brought the people to me
that were tired of the incorrect information
that was compromising their garden, making crop loss.
And they brought them to me to where we could make changes.
And we had clients that were successful
commercial facilities that are respected online
that did a top dress of neem
and had a 30% reduction in their standard yield
in one harvest.
They'd go and scrape it off the soil surface,
re-inoculate and they'd get that yield right back.
So, again, I genuinely thank that grumpy bastard
because that really catapulted us.
I'm serious, it catapulted us to the top.
I kind of sucked that he had to get so violent, but.
In chat, there's somebody who's selling a 50 pound bag
of neem that they don't need anymore.
So, thanks for watching.
Well, I'll take it.
There's some other good questions here.
Blue tank, excuse me, blue green tank earlier asked,
that's why he likes to use his avocado tech
instead of doing compost teas
because he feels it's a little bit safer method
of getting those nutrients in there.
Yeah, that avocado tech really works well.
I think that's one of the misconceptions.
Like one of the arguments that neem is good
is that there's an increase in worm populations.
And what you need to understand
is you need to take that understanding a little bit further.
So, if you have an increase in worms,
that means there was an increase in their food source.
And by putting something antimicrobial on the soil surface,
you just killed a whole bunch of organisms.
That's a tremendous amount of what the worms eat.
The worms eat the like slime layer.
And so what has been termed as a positive effect
of doing that is actually an indication
of exactly what I'm saying is that it killed
all those organisms and made them available
to the worms to eat.
But yeah, so the avocado tech is great,
but that still doesn't handle the inoculation.
You still need to inoculate.
And so the avocado tech, I think is a much safer strategy
for increasing worm populations.
But we also need to increase the biological populations.
I had another comment on there,
which I was kind of wondering about.
I'm not totally sure, but RO water in living soil,
at that point it's been destructured
and there's no minerals in it.
I'm actually, I'm very grateful for the minerals
that are in my well water and the little PPMs that I have.
So what's up with RO water in living soil?
Well, yeah, so there's a couple of considerations.
One, that water is void of an electrical charge.
Because the minerals have been stripped out of it.
And so what it's going to do is when you add that RO water
to the soil, there's gonna be a transfer of elements.
It's gonna work like a vacuum almost.
Like it's gonna pull them into the water
because it's gonna try and maintain homeostasis.
I don't know how that actually negatively affects plants,
but it is a consideration.
If we are working with a facility that's been forced
into using RO water, we never feed straight RO.
We always add something back.
The most economical thing to add back
is the fulvic acid from Organics Alive, FPF.
I think it is, I always get those two mixed up.
I think the humic is FPT.
Yeah, the fulvic's FPF.
But nonetheless, the way that they make that fulvic
is by fermenting a product in agricultural products,
you get the mineral.
And so by adding just a half a mil per gallon
or one mil per gallon, you get fulvic acid,
which is really beneficial,
but you add a certain amount of PPMs of mineral
to that water.
And that's actually the goal.
The other kind of hair splitting aspect of RO
is that same osmotic pressure variation
negatively affects organisms.
So you're gonna have a minor dying off of organisms
or reduction in their populations by adding the RO water.
Awesome.
How about rabbit poop compost?
Building trend, apparently.
It is, it is.
Well, I have to pause and be mindful
because if I say something on YouTube,
I'm already getting emails.
My shit's blowing up right now.
I get emails as I talk,
and then I have to deal with phone calls the entire next day
anytime I speak negatively
about something based on our experience.
So I have to pause to really be mindful
that I don't get a cease and desist letter
or sued or some dumb shit.
But we've quantified every product known to man
that makes compost.
I'll say that all of them can be great.
The one consideration you have to ask yourself
as somebody that's buying compost
is you have to ask,
what was the original goal with this compost?
Was it to produce biologically active compost?
Was it to produce bio-complete compost, as Dr. Elaine says?
Or is it to reduce waste?
In almost every situation I've seen,
the rabbit poop is forced
because they're trying to get rid of a bunch of rabbit shit
and rabbits dump a lot of doo-doo.
And so they are rapidly trying to get rid of that material.
It can have some great qualities.
It can have some great mineral qualities
or whatever the advocates of rabbit compost
are saying about it.
That's probably true.
But in every rabbit compost I've looked at,
it's always been loaded with the omicetes
because they rushed it or because it was too wet.
And so I think any type of compost can be great.
Again, these producers of compost
need to quantify their process.
The compost that we make, as far as I know,
has by far the highest populations of fungi
and bacteria and predators
because we spent four years quantifying,
analyzing and adjusting our process.
And so every step of the way,
changed what we were doing
based on what the end result produced
from a biological standpoint.
And anybody that's trying to reduce waste
is usually trying to get it out the door.
So I see a lot of disease causing organisms
that come with that rabbit manure.
But again, getting into the hands of somebody
with a microscope, identifying omicetes is pretty easy
as long as you've been instructed correctly
on what a good fungi and a bad fungi is.
I know there's some people that get mad at me
when I say good or bad.
And I know there's massive gradients
and people get all boiled,
but you have to understand my job
is distilling down extremely complicated things
to people that don't have a reference point for that.
So when I say good and bad,
is that scientifically correct?
No, but omicetes never lead to anything good,
in my opinion, regardless of what they do.
They're always, always, always directly correlated
to powdery mildew.
So again, omicetes are really easy to identify
as long as you've been instructed properly.
Find somebody on Instagram with a microscope,
talk them into looking at it for you,
or send it to one of the labs, send it to Nick,
send it to Catalyst, send it to CureSoil,
send it to Eli, send it to my wife.
There's a ton of people that do this now.
Find them and connect with them.
Beautiful.
I don't know if Peter's still there, but it's been about-
Yeah, I'm back.
I literally cooked four cheeseburgers and corn
when I disappeared.
It's 6.30 West Coast time.
We started at two, three, four,
so four and a half hours in.
Scott, we're trying to do like a Chinese torture on you.
Tapping out, tapping out.
Are there any people watching?
Yeah, there are like 200 people still watching.
That's why I didn't like wrap it up.
So on that, we will be back soon.
By the way, Scott, do you know who Linda Chalker Scott is?
I don't believe so.
What does she do?
She's a plant scientist researcher
at I think University of Washington.
But anyway, I'm talking to her about mulch and wood chips
and stuff like that on Monday morning.
So I wanted to see if you wanna jump in,
but I'll send you some info on her and you can look her up.
But I appreciate everyone's time tonight,
including the 200 people who are still watching.
I'm gonna go eat some cheeseburgers.
Yeah, sorry.
I didn't mean to talk over here.
I was just saying shout out to the people
that stuck it out.
Yeah. Thank you guys.
They're eating it up.
They're eating your rabbit poop, Scott.
And I apologize if I offended you,
but like I said, if you're gonna be about sustainability,
look at the current state of the world.
Shit's pretty fag right now.
Like be about it.
I'm not here to like coddle feelings of white fragility,
like fucking be about it.
Like be about it, be accountable, quantify your process,
come with it, man.
If you're about this shit, now's the time.
How many people bought pots from you, Tyler,
that aren't even cannabis growers
that are frantically throwing down a food garden
right now, right?
So many people, so many different places.
This is it, man.
I've been saying online that within 20 years,
we're gonna run into a water issue
and people laugh me off the planet saying I'm a fear monger.
Well, what the fuck's going on right now?
Scarcity issues, climate issues, health issues.
Am I a fear monger or am I trying to alert you?
Like I'm trying to alert you.
And like, I don't mean to be,
people say I'm arrogant or whatever these words are.
Like what you need to understand is like,
I don't got time for this.
Like the world is in a compromised position.
And if you're about sustainability,
if you're about regenerative, like be about it.
Be about it.
And if you wanna be casual, fine.
Get out of the way while I'm not casual.
Like I'm trying to equip humans to survive.
I'm trying to equip sustainable farms to stay in business.
That's what I'm about.
And that doesn't mean that you have to be about that.
But if you're not, get the fuck out of the way.
It's time to be real, man.
You know, like the frustration I'm experiencing right now,
I can't even verbalize it.
Because for me to verbalize,
I'd have to throw people onto the bus.
And that's not what I'm actually about.
But like, I'm the person that goes with my wife
to these family farms, to the regenerative farms,
to the sustainable farms.
And these people are on suicide watch
because they got some bad-ass internet advice.
Did I just lose everyone?
You know?
And no, we're here.
And I just like, you know,
I can't even speak of those things
because I'm not here to put people on the bus.
But like, we need a reality check.
You know, this whole coronavirus stuff, in my opinion,
is our first cross with actual climate change
and the factors of the way we live our lives.
And we need to make radical change.
We need to allow sustainable farmers to stay in business.
We need actionable advice that leads to profitability.
We need people to stay in business,
and we need those people to champion,
and we need those people to make change.
And if that ruins my Instagram likes,
if that makes you not like me, I don't care.
Like I said, I have a different goal.
I'm trying to make radical change.
I'm not trying to make friends.
I'm not trying to be liked on the internet.
I'm not trying to be disliked,
but I'm trying to make radical change.
And if you want to make radical change,
let's make radical change.
If you don't, then go be casual.
Go be casual, man.
Well, the people in chat
are certainly showing you some love, brother.
So fill it there.
I know you can't see it, but you can see it.
Feel it.
And I appreciate it.
And I appreciate all those people
that believe what I'm talking about,
because our job is insanely hard.
You know, like I have to present information to people
that proves what we're talking about
while completely disguising a farm.
Do you know how difficult that is?
I have to speak about problems
without getting sued by online retailers.
I need to present information to farmers
without getting attacked.
And I'm not complaining, but like,
you know, I appreciate the people
that understand what I'm trying to do.
I appreciate the people that hear me.
I appreciate the people like Michael
that are making radical change,
that are listening to the farmers, they're adapting.
You know, I appreciate Organics Alive
that are leading the charge in actual sustainability,
not greenwashed, whitewashed, fanboy Instagram stuff,
but like legitimately pushing the envelope
of sustainability.
Like those are the people that need to be supported.
Those are the people that need to be supported, man.
And I'm not saying there aren't other people
that I don't know about.
I know there's great people doing great things,
but these are the people that continue
to come through for me.
These are the people that continue to not let me down.
These are the people that continue to listen
to the pain of farmers.
These are the people that react when there's a problem.
You know, I've given some bad advice periodically
and I gotta make corrections.
I gotta apologize.
I gotta, you know, make a radical change with my farm
to make sure we can increase that profitability.
But for the most part, using the microscope analysis
of Dr. Lane Ingham to dictate everything about our process
has made us remarkably successful in our endeavors.
Really the only times where we screwed some shit up
was when I went outside of that,
when I was learning mineral balancing
because I had to as a function of my business.
Yeah, I missed it a couple of times.
We're having to really get aggressive with the liquid feeds.
I've made a couple of mistakes I had to adjust,
but the information's not out there.
Like you have to interpret this math yourself.
You have to figure it out and that's hard.
And we're doing it a massive scale
across literally the whole planet.
And, you know, I'm just asking for the people
in the industry to step up, make some accountability.
You know, that's all.
Or get out of the way so people with accountability
can step up and help farmers
because look at all the people that are out of work
right now.
Look at all the people that are on the fringe.
Look at all the people that are afraid
for their health right now.
You know what solves that?
Living soil, natural systems.
You know where health comes from?
300 million years of evolution.
My wife and I were in Spain swimming in COVID.
We went through three countries that are swimming in COVID.
We were on five days worth of plane.
We didn't get sick.
You know why?
Because we put our hands in the dirt.
Because we eat living soil food.
We've been remarkably unaffected.
And our families have gardens with living soil pots
from Tyler.
They use our compost.
They've been unaffected.
We're real time looking at the consequence
of solving everything with killing it with chemicals.
We're living the consequence of a compromised microbiome.
We are living the consequences of disregarding
quantifying our process with a microscope
to see where we're at from a microbiological standpoint.
And we've had commercial clients that took this TMV
or took this, whatever they're calling it now,
the dudding, any of that shit.
We've taken plants that had that, that we knew had that.
We put it into a living soil.
And within a few weeks, it was gone.
Like, do you understand that?
Like the 300 million years of evolution
in that microbiological system has solutions
for dealing with viruses.
And I encourage every one of you,
if you're afraid of your health,
if you're worried about those people around you,
make a step to protect the microbiome.
I took that oath.
I really believed what Dr. Lane was saying,
that people needed to travel the planet
and go to these untouched systems
and grab those samples and compost them and spread them out.
Like, I took that for real and I did that.
And that's what our compost is.
I've gone through all the regions of California
and the forest systems that are still untouched.
We composted that soil material.
We turned it into a commercially produced product
to help cultivation.
But like, I did that for environmental preservation.
And I'm not saying that you need to do that,
but I'm saying that some attention should be put to that.
And we should all make the steps to protect ourselves,
to protect our bodies, to protect our plants,
to protect our families, to protect our planets.
That's all I got to say about that.
Well, I just want to say,
for anybody who's listening that feels like
they want to take their garden to another step,
this is going to sound super gimmicky,
but contact us and we can help you,
lead you into ways to apply science and apply,
rural tools that we see working with our customers.
And the companies that Scott mentioned earlier,
to highlight them a little bit again,
I'll probably forget about a couple of them,
but obviously Sam from SoilScape Solutions,
I've seen amazing results from people
using his foliar spraying plan.
Obviously the Blue Mat Systems
and Organics Alive,
these are just really amazing companies and amazing brands
that you should check out and you should love.
So apply science, get stuff tested, quantify stuff,
test your inputs, test your outputs, test everything,
give us some ideas of other stuff you want us to talk about.
I think we lost Peter and lost his internet connection.
I don't know if he's back yet,
but I'm kind of running out of a little bit of brain juice
here and I got an hour and a half ride home to the farm.
So I've kind of got to tap out myself too,
but I just want everybody to contact us.
If you've got more questions, we'd love to talk to you.
Same.
And I just, again, man,
like I can't speak enough highly about you, Tyler,
you're an amazing dude.
I really appreciate how you just really interact
with this community.
I get a little hothead, I start running my mouth,
but like you are so consistent, man.
You are so respectable to people.
You are so polite.
And I just really admire you for doing that.
Same with Michael.
Like I just, I really appreciate the way you
attack the market and know that I learn from you every day
and I'm trying to be my best self.
And I hope that my contribution to the market
can aid people to be their best self as well.
And again, my brain's tapped out.
My throat's gone.
Thanks to Peter to putting this on.
Thanks to all the people that stuck it out
and are listening to this rambling.
I hope you were able to get something good
and until next time, man.
Yeah, thank you, Scott.
Yeah, man.
Check you later, guys.
See ya.
