One thing I talked about besides you catching up with a few other growers this morning,
a lot of them are talking about winterization and fresh frozen.
So how much?
I mean, you don't have to tell us exactly how many pounds you're pushing.
But even just a percentage, if that's something you're getting into, and how much of it are
you allocating to essentially, for lack of a better term, diversify your portfolio?
Totally.
So I mean, we have 50,000 square feet outdoor.
I would say this is kind of the first year that I'm actually allocating a good amount
of it to fresh frozen, just kind of seeing where the markets evolved, on the scale of
production where we're at, limitations on where we can dry it.
So getting into that fresh frozen, which means we just take the plant fresh, buck it down,
clean it up a little bit, and freeze it right away.
Straight to the freezer.
Straight to the freezer.
And that's where the extract artists these days are, that's where they get the most high
end product.
And that ties into live rosin, essentially.
Live rosin and or live resin.
So you got the live rosin, which is the organic kind of bubble hash extraction, and then pressing
it and I'll get you the live rosin.
And then the other side of it is the live resin, which guys are pushing the fresh frozen
material through BHO.
And then and then just creates a different product.
Yeah, altogether, right?
Totally different.
Because I actually this year just as an experiment, gave the same crop, same pheno, same everything,
same greenhouse to a BHO live resin manufacturer and a live rosin and the product is so different.
If I didn't know they were grown even the same strain, really, it's just such a difference
in the way it comes out.
And we might even see that amongst extractors as well just because of different techniques.
So that's kind of fun and cool is just to see the differences of like your raw material.
Because when you dry the flower, it's going to be the dried flower.
The extract brings this whole other element to like, kind of an art form itself.
Yeah, it brings the artistry out.
I think of Frenchy Cannoli, I know he's really come up on the scene lately.
And there's there's individuals like him around the world.
But it really is an art.
That's one thing you know, as crazy as Frenchy can be.
I love that he really puts that emphasis that it is an art when he's doing bubble hash.
Yeah, you know, and it is a totally different experience from the flower.
And that's the only thing it takes different infrastructure.
So you got to have freezer rooms, ways to transport that.
And then what if a freezer goes down and you have 200 pounds of material in there, you
got to have a backup in place like, so there's a lot of things.
It's a lot of a lot to think about a lot of moving parts.
Yeah, I probably prefer I wish I could just dry it all traditionally and, and do that.
But it's fun to evolve with the market and see new products come out and be a part of
all that.
So very cool.
Just got to adapt and do a little bit of everything.
So overall, I'd say probably, you know, we focus on trying to keep the tops of the plants
for flower, the best stuff for the best, and then focus on the lower.
And it also helps with the harvest timing.
So we can get all those tops that are more susceptible to mold or proteinus, get them
hanging dry and gives us more time to deal with like the lower buds.
So good quality.
Yeah.
You know, as a grower, I always smoke the smalls.
I don't know.
It all tastes better.
It's not always better.
I love artichokes.
And I'm like, the biggest artichokes are always the most flavorful.
It's funny how that transcends so many things or even like, yeah, lobsters, shrimp.
I mean, there are so many things that to your point, quality over quantity.
Right.
So it allows us to to to time out.
She says, big hands, you know, you're the one I'm like, is that from a song?
Is that from a song?
Yeah, so it allows us to time out the harvest a little bit.
Yeah.
And so I'd say we're doing about 25 percent in the fresh frozen this year.
Pretty fair amount for a fifty thousand square foot canopy.
Yeah, that's why I got four hundred and twenty square feet of freezer space coming up this week.
There are there are supposedly some companies coming up that that are that are manufacturing
companies that rely on that fresh frozen material.
I haven't personally run into a company that's sending troops up to do that work for us.
I am working with one of the biggest brands in the space right now in the industry.
And they're about to launch, if they haven't launched it yet, a live rosen brand.
And I can guess who that is.
I think they're based out of just just not too far from here, actually.
They're based in here in Humboldt.
Yeah. Yeah.
And so we're going to be one of their their main three producers for their fresh frozen line.
Nice.
I mean, I think it's probably open now is they have an Instagram up, so I think it's all good.
But Papa and Barclays is introducing a live rosen brand.
So it's going to be Papa's Select.
