Well, good afternoon everybody. We're in for a treat. We're going to meet some guys from
Atlas Seeds. They're somebody who's passionate about growing and I think, can you let me
pull them on? Here they are. It's Joe in Pennsylvania and Adam and Andy in the People's Republic
of California and it looks like the lights have gone out in California. Don't know why
they're black but oh, there you came back. Okay, your governor finally decided to let
the power go. Well, hey, tell me a little bit about yourself and your team there, Adam
and Andy and Joe. I don't know who wants to go first but tell me how your makeup is and
what, tell us a little something about Atlas. Take us away, Joe. Atlas is... Oh, Joe can't
hear us. Can you hear me? I can hear you. Can you hear me? I'm there. You're there.
So Atlas is... Oh, that's frozen. Atlas is... Okay, well, I'm Adam. I'm one of the... Oh,
Joe, you're back. Yeah, no, he's good guys. I don't know if you guys are having a little
bit of a lag issue there, Adam and Andy, but something's going on there. We could see Joe
loud and clear. Sometimes you got to unmute yourself. Okay. But we can hear you so you're
unmuted. Okay, I can hear everybody. So I'll start us off. Atlas Seed is a company that
we started about four years ago. We started in California. Our number one goal was to
produce seed for ourselves as farmers. We are at scale growers, large acreage of semi,
full term, full term and auto flowering genetics. And we realized about six years ago that there
was a lack of quality seed for large scale growers to grow from seed. So we embarked
on some breeding and got our feet wet and we've only grown from there. We've been offering
seed for sale for about four years now. And there are four of us in the company that are
owners and we have a couple others that are part of our team. And we're all passionate
farmers that not only do breeding, but we also grow all of our own genetics as well.
Cool. Cool. Well, Adam and Andy, tell us a little bit about the California facility down there.
Well, we we have an acre of licensed cultivation that where we get multiple crops a year. And we
do female hunting, field trials, testing different experiments in the field during the season. And
then we have some indoor facilities where we're doing some production, some test crosses,
furthering our lines, making some selections. We also do some indoor and greenhouse female
hunts with a partnering facility down south in the Watsonville area. So our facilities are
spread out over kind of northern and central California, you know, depending on the time of
year and what our specific goals during the breeding cycle are. And I'm just a little bit
about me. I'm my background is actually in organic vegetable production. I started growing
vegetables in 2007 and transitioned to cannabis in 2014 and breeding cannabis basically starting
right when I started growing it. And I'm passionate about plants and being outside and
it's breeding is the main hat I'm wearing now, but I get to wear lots of other hats in the farm,
the farming life that I live. So.
Cool. What about Andy? Andy?
Yeah, so I've been growing cannabis for about 17 or 18 years. It's, you know, majority of my
life, something I'm really passionate about. You know, like Adam said, we've gotten to the stage
where we're primarily focused on breeding. But one of the great things about this farm is we have
all facets of the process going on. So I love being able to poke in and, you know, be a part of all
these different parts that are going on simultaneously. And yeah.
You guys make regular seeds and feminized seeds or what's your what's your breakup there as
percentages?
We make a hundred percent feminized seeds. We have a few, a few non-fem lines we have dabbled with
here and there, but we for the most part, stay away from it. It keeps, there's already enough
complexity in the breeding we do. So it's one way we can reduce complexity. And it also helps us to
further the lines more quickly too.
Yeah, I agree with the feminizing. I do. I do a lot of feminized breeding because I've got females that I
know inside and out, about 22 of them. And so I use those depending on what flavor I'm working on to
work those into other stuff that I don't know a lot about. But because they're females and I've grown
them out, there's not a lot of ifs, you know, it's not like I have to keep a male around to do that.
Everybody wants females in the end anyway, and it seems to be a little easier for me to as well.
Yeah.
Do you do anything that goes on large to large scale machine planting like vacuum seeders and stuff out in
the field?
Yeah, I mean, any of ours.
Or do you make you make plugs and then the plugs get sewn into the field?
Our nurse, yeah, yeah, we've done some direct sowing personally, we know people who've done direct
sowing, you know, people have direct sowing the plastic. I mean, we give pretty comprehensive
grower guides, to all of our potential growers anywhere, you know, starting with kind of the small
home grower up to the, you know, grower growing 20 acres. We've got guides for all of those different,
you know, target demographics or farmers, if you will. Teaching and explaining really carefully,
especially the auto flowers, the different options for propagation, there are different options for
all the different types of genetics, and all the cultivars within those different, all the different
lines within those cultivars as well. So we, you know, we've found, you know, growers have a lot of
success if they're skilled growers with direct sowing, but in general, we're cautious to recommend
that as an approach.
Because of genetic variability or hermaphroditization or...
Just the skill of the growers. We find a lot, we call it a balk, but we just find a lot of people, a lot of
people mess it up. It can be tricky.
Yeah, we did. We've done a lot of testing on direct sowing over the last few years. And with our
genetics and other people's genetics, competitors genetics, and this is generally with auto flower,
we found that the percentage of emergence was only at about, capped at about 60%. Even though the
germination rates of these, of all of our lots were over 90%. We weren't getting in the real world
conditions of the field, the emergence up out of the soil. And it dawned on us a few, about a year and a
half, two years ago that it's because the industry hasn't been breeding on at scale for direct sowing.
You know, seeds come up a lot easier in peat and perlite in your prop house than they do in the clay or
loamy clay soils that are out there in the real world. When we do direct sowing at scale ourselves, we
just add two to three X seed per acre. We know, and then we get our usable plant numbers. We know that
that's not really viable for paying customers. So we've been working at trying to, you know,
incorporating into our breeding programs, the sowing into native soils and to, you know, basically
produce, to select for better emergence out of actual soil.
Right. I think there's a lot, there's a couple of important qualifications I'd like to add to your
comments, Joe. One of which is that we've found that a lot of people who are entering the cannabis
market don't, and this isn't everyone, this is just a lot or a decent percentage, don't have as good as an
agricultural background as they should. And so you end up with people just not being able to execute at an
extremely high level. And doing direct sowed crops in anything, I'm talking most of the lettuces in
California are direct sown and California produces most of the lettuces in the country, with vacuum
seed or with pelleted seed. I'm very familiar personally with direct sow systems and what it takes to do it.
Your field work, the quality of your tilt has to be perfect. And you can't be too hot to get, you know, these
numbers above 50%. You really, you know, it's easy if you stick a thermometer on a hot day, depending on, you
know, where you are, your elevation, the time of year to see soil temperatures at 100 degrees. Well, things
don't, you know, most seeds have a have a thermal dormancy above or some degree of thermal dormancy above, you
know, 80, 85 degrees, 90 degrees, and then germinations rate go go down, and they slow down below 65 degrees. So
you need these pretty specific conditions. And then there's moisture profiles, and people are working with new
irrigation systems. So we have seen good results with people that know how to do it and in ourselves. And in
terms of the 2 to 3x per acre that Joe is speaking to, that is going to be the same in almost any, any crop.
Lettuce seed, you're putting down 2 to 3x per acre, beet seed, you're putting down 10 to 15x per acre. So, you
know, getting it down so that the direct seeding is an economical way of doing it, i.e. getting it so that you're
not having germination at say 80% or above. There is a matrix there where you're saving on potting soil, having a seed
in the greenhouse, water, fertilizer, all the things, the labor to transplant, the whole things, and you're just
spending a little more money on seed and you're rolling it out. And that matrix is, you know, probably closer to 80%.
And then it depends on the cost of the seed in the end from your producer and how much seed you're buying,
essentially what deal you can get as a grower. But I just want to say that we've seen amazing results, you know, 30 to
50% increase in yields on autos from direct sown lots. So there are real clear reasons to do it. The reason why we're
cautious is because people consistently mess it up. It is doable though. So that was a long winded, but it.
Yeah, there's, there's some, I've been experimenting with that over, over quite a few years, because I come back from
organic, I came from organic vegetables too. And I would make seed and genetics for tomatoes and other things and
produce flower seed too, which is really important. If you grow flower for the floral industry, it's got to be really
consistent and exactly what you want. And I found for the, for my germination rate for going out in the field, what I do
is I freeze it first. When we work, I work with a lot of tree seeds, I've worked with some ornamental seeds, you've had to
freeze them, some you had to put in a rock tumbler and then, and then soak them for 21 days in water and then plant them.
And there's a certain process. And I found that there's one that works with, with cannabis seeds quite well. And that's just
to freeze them a couple of days before you're ready to go out. And then, then just take a machine seed them 2x, two times
what you want, you know, and then they just fill in. And then you can go in with your, and then when you got a crew in there,
if you're going to weed, you can go in and just take every other one out or, you know, take them out to get your spacing. And
that's normal. I think I don't think that you could expect to plant them one shot and come up. I have, I have seeds planted
right now outdoors. It's minus 23 here today, it'll get to well below minus 40. But my seeds already planted in the springtime,
my seed will come up when it's the right time.
That's beautiful. Cover crop.
No on top of it and everything. And then when the snow melts, all of a sudden, I'll see patches of snow and the seeds coming up.
You're winterizing in the ground, in real time in place.
In the ground, and I've had pretty good luck with that. And so I know that people don't have the luxury to be planting their seeds
and leave them all winter, you know, but I do. And then, and I'll go through the greenhouse and then thin them out. I plant three
seeds where I want one plant. And because they start in the ground, the taproot is sometimes two inches big around and it's got
like layers about every six inches, as it goes down to two feet, if you dig down, and it spreads right out can really hold a big
plant. The wind resistance is amazing when you proceed right to the ground. If you go plug, and you got a machine planter,
that's got the two wheels and it goes down the down the track, you know, and it just puts it in with that holds it in with the
little fingers, I have a Whitfield planter, you don't get the root structure. And so the wind will blow them over. If they're if
they're planted in plugs, I do 128.
I think all of us, you know, farmers who are getting down and dirty, see the obvious and distinct advantages of direct sowing. And, you
know, I'm a strong advocate for it. I think that just with the skill level, like I was saying, of cultivators in the industry, and you
know, circumstantial situations, too much moisture in our field, and wanting to get a quick jump on it, there are reasons why
transplant can be appropriate. I'm using the word appropriate instead of say beneficial.
Yeah, safe. But it's, you know, I could go on and on. This is actually something that I kind of that gets me that gets me
excited. I'm talking about different trends that it's really kind of your crop planning and that that that planting phase of
your crop planning. That's one of the things that I really enjoy geeking out about. So yeah, we I have a half mile square of
alfalfa. And that's where I make my compost. I make 200 square meters of compost. And that's what I use. But we will around
where I'm at, they'll plant peas. And if it's too moist, it'll just rot them off. They'll have like nothing there. But they do
they grow canola around here and hard wheat or no, I think it's soft wheat for cows. I don't know a lot about wheat, but they
grow wheat around here and barley. And a lot.
We mulched crop bed of cannabis one year with alfalfa hay. As a little top dress fertilizer, and they loved it. They really
greened up and I can see it's almost like putting down a kelp spray or something. It's just a really noticeable, happy plant that
was just seemed to be soaking up that that goodness from that alfalfa. And there's you know, obviously some fertilizer component
there.
Yeah, yeah. Or organic. I grew organic. I just find it better for my seeds. I get bigger seeds more evenly sized and it can hold a whole
population where you don't have a bunch of clinkers. I call them clinkers are the ones that are hollow. But I cleaned them all out
with air and so it blows them out. Let's go down. Tell us about some of your favorite strains first Joe and then then Adam and Andy
or whatever. Tell what are some of your favorites that are out there that are not in house? I know I'm a geek. I got it my own in
house stuff. People ask you what do you like to smoke? And what do you like that's out there that is not your stuff that let's say, you
know, gelato or you know, some of the mainstream ones. What do you like, Joe? And then what do you do you guys have that you like? And
then we'll go to Adam.
My favorite smoking strain is Grease Monkey. It's a it's a high 20% it's about 27-28% sativa leaning hybrid, very frosty, has a has a
fuel kind of almost burnt rubber smell to it. It's very unique and it's an it's an energetic uplifting high that doesn't put you down on the
couch and get you up going. We we don't we have worked with that strain. Looking at it, we haven't incorporated it yet into anything that we
do. And so that would be an out of the house strain in house. I'm a big fan of our Papa Smurf, which is a Blue Dream derivative. It's a it's a mold
resistant Blue Dream phenotype that we've crossed with one of our auto flowering, our IBL auto flowering strains, Cotton Candy. It's a it's a so it's a
quick or a fast flowering strain that finishes in like mid September. It's about three, four weeks sooner than than the Blue Dream clone form. So yeah, that
would be and I like that strain because it's a large yielder. It's a good smoke. It's an uplifting energetic against sativa. I'm a big sativa fan.
Something that isn't isn't going to put you down on the on the couch.
Right. Blue Dream traditionally has got a fairly small bud. And so if you're crossing it to an auto flower, I would expect that it would increase the bud size
substantially.
Yeah, the the density on it is not. It's not like a like a do-si-do or, or even a gelato type bud. So so the mold, the mold resistance on it is, is fairly good. It's it is a
little more loose, airy structure. Now from a growing standpoint, and I'm sure because we were just I was out there this couple weeks ago, a couple weeks
before harvest at the California farm with Adam and Andy, and I was looking, we were going through all the whole field. And it didn't, the structure of that of
that Blue Dream and of the of the of the Papa Smurf is such that there's a lot of leaf in there. And so it's there's a lot of extra fluff, so to speak. Whereas a strain
that really caught my eye and Andy and Adam will probably echo this is the Oreos strain. Oreos has quite a nice structure, where it's very not a lot of extra leaf,
good, good spacing in between buds, very good mold resistance. And so that's like maybe a new one that I'm quite interested in and excited to smoke here soon.
Are you fertilize, are you fertilizing as you're growing like through drip? I know that you rip, you use drip tape I saw and I looked at your website and saw some of the
pictures. Do you run a water soluble fertilizer through that?
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah. Because I found that if you have the buds and on autos, and they're like, you know how like it grows those those fan leaves down low, but as it gets up towards
the bud, then it's got like a whole bunch of these little hairy one finger fans all over it. If you cut your nitrogen in half or like way back, it can tend to make it to tighten those up.
We've done some trials with autos where we don't fertilize at all in during the crop cycle, and we've had really good success. I think that you know, fertilization, especially on the auto
crops is not necessary for achieving good results.
Yeah, it's actually problematic. I think that a person if they do if they're growing organic, and they add some alfalfa, maybe a little livestock kelp it when you put it down. And maybe some bone meal or
something like that. And you've got good soil, you know, you don't need to touch it. You know, they'll finish they'll finish in 90 days off of what's there.
Well, okay, what strains do you guys like Adam and Andy, what are the ones that are out there? And then what are your guys favorite? I know grease monkey I've, or at least might not be the same one, you know, because
everybody says, Oh, I know gelato, but there's like a million of everything out there. You know, and who knows if you have the real wedding cake, I've had wedding cake for, for years. And I just said, You know what, I'm not getting another
wedding cake, I'm just back crossing it to self and I've got it out. I've got landrace wedding cake at my place. I think I've reset it like 12 or 15 times. So it's pretty much like a landrace, I can plant a whole field from seed. So what do you guys
like? And what's what's upcoming that that that you guys make that you're excited about?
So I've been feeling nostalgic lately. And one of my all time favorites is train wreck. Oh, yeah, it's been a long time since I've had a good example of train wreck. So I'm currently on the hunt, negotiating with a few different people that I feel
probably have a legitimate cut of the train wreck that I remember. And
explain it. What's it tell us about the train wreck? How does it look? It's a structure and
at least the one that I grew. This was a long time ago, probably in 2007 ish. You know, I had these big, chunky kind of long calyxes on the buds and it has like it's kind of a strong jack profile.
Really sharp nose, you know, train wreck also varies off into the cactus strains or varieties that you know, like the name says can almost smell like cat pee. Just really pungent strain. And I had just such a great time growing it. I love the effects of it. And I feel like kind of disappeared into the abyss. And there's been some examples I've seen recently that just don't hit those marks.
That's something I'd like to bring back just kind of on a
you know, nostalgic note, like I said,
the pistols a little off white on the on the train wreck you're talking about. It's not yellow and not really bright white, like, yeah, it's kind of in the middle.
Yeah, I would say so.
Yeah, okay.
To me, it's one of the few strains that, you know, from a picture, I can almost smell it and then also verify it just by looking, you know, like blue dreams the same way, you know, blue dream is very, it's got a very distinct set of features that you can tell it's blue dream.
And then as far as in-house one project I'm really excited about, we're actually still in the middle of it. We're doing the pheno hunt is our AS1 donor crossed with a friend of ours.
We're doing a collaboration from NorCal Gardens, and it's the Scherbanger 22 crossed with AS1.
It's looking really promising. We still have about two weeks to go before we can make final selections, but we're doing 500 plants or 500 seeds indoors, just to kind of see a unique indoor expression of a plant. And it's looking really promising.
Nice. Adam?
A new line that hasn't fully been named yet, but I'm calling it Green Jolly Rancher. It's just very distinctly green apple. And it's just really, really a beautiful, beautiful strain and beautiful project that I'm really excited about.
Continuing to work and having, you know, seeds to release year to this year, the next, we're not sure yet.
So yeah, Green Jolly Rancher is in-house, one that I'm really excited about. In terms of other people's genetics, I've seen some banana-y genetics. I really like that terpene profile. And we had one in the past, but we haven't been happy with it. So I've been enjoying other people's banana, banana cush strains.
Exotic has a really nice banana. It's called Banana Punch. Banana Punch. It's a really good one. And they have a good apple one too, that I'm working with. It's Red Delicious.
Oh, cool.
And that's what I've been working with. Really unique bud style and growing. And I've found some problems with the structure and some things where the stem is really, really thick, like ridiculously thick, like way thicker than it should be. And it kind of twists as it grows up and grows kind of funky. So I'm going to, I got to get rid of that. I don't like that.
I love the terpy. I love the terps and I just not, no fan of the structure. And I found one that tests over 20. So that's, it's in the ballpark.
Ah, the confusing maze of testing.
Yeah. How many strains do you guys, I personally go through about 300 strains a year. I work 300 lines a year. So they're different. Sometimes there are two or three lines out of one particular strain. One's more gassy, one's on the fruit side. And I try to get them bottlenecked where I only have the gas with the gas and only the fruity with the fruity.
How many, how many lines do you guys work? Cause I know we got to sift a ton of lines to get like, you know, eight or 10 winners a year.
Yeah. Well, we're, we're working the same, you know, so just so we're speaking the same language we would call, I think what you're calling a cultivar, a land race, we'd call that a cultivar. And each cultivar has different lines. That's just the terminology we use in house.
So we work somewhere in the neighborhood of 30 cultivars in general, floating around in two or three lines for each cultivars. I would say somewhere between 60 and 90 is what I estimate. So it seems like about 25% of what you're doing in, in, in all reality. And we've just found that that's what we're able to do and do well.
And we've always kind of made it a point not to stretch ourselves too thin. And that's felt like a good number for us.
I wish I could find that point. I haven't been able to find that point.
You're looking what you've you've done a lot that you've accomplished a lot. It's been really impressive. Getting to know you and seeing, seeing and hearing about all the progress you've made in your lines, the time, the care, the thought you put into them. And, and also just your, your end result on a lot of these things is impressive. So
I got some, I got one special one I'm working on for Remo. He's a, he's a, he loves frosted fruitcake and I like frosted fruitcake. It's kind of the sativa leaning chemotype, but it gives you, it makes me cough all the time. So just, you can't, you can't hold it in, you know, automatically.
So I've got another one that's really close to that. I've been working and I'm going to call it Remo in honor of him. And I only if he smokes it and likes it, but I'm pretty sure I'm pretty sure he's going to like it because it is just a ripper. It's a 20.20%. It's got 5.something% CBG in it. And man, it'll just lay out. It's good for that.
Okay. Let's see what, so you grow, you also grow for, for retail sales. You sell to the, to the market too, right?
Yeah, we grow for wholesale basically.
For wholesale. So, so basically you just sell up what you try instead of wasting what you, you spent all that effort growing it out. If it's good, then you just turn it, you just sell it, but that's not your big goal.
Yeah.
Okay. Yeah. I have the same thing when I, when I shuck seeds or something, I get so much and I just wind up throwing it out and, and composting it or I wash it for hash, you know, it's like, you know, you get so much stiff that, you know, you just don't know what to do with it if you're making any volume.
Yeah.
You know, Ryan, we did, we did just get some results back finally on some of those testers that you sent. You gave me when, when I met you in.
Oh, the floor, the floor seeds. Those are floor seeds. Those aren't testers. My testers come out good. It's the floor seeds is basically, that's what I lean down and swept up into a pile just to give to people. So they got something to do. And I just, whatever falls on the floor in my dry room, I just, I just sweep them up and give them out.
So, yeah. So we found a, one that we think is, we're quite excited about is one of the, the washer strains projects that you had been working on. And we just got the, we got our test results back and we were quite pleased at the, the percentage of THC was, was close to 28 and the yield on the, on the wash was over 8%.
Yeah. It's a, there's a, I've got a couple of, I've got a couple of washers in the, in, in the pipe and I've got some that are so, so crystally, you wouldn't believe it. I, I brew, I work at an LP here and we've, we've bred another one that hasn't been released yet, but they have the seed and it's got Blue Dream in it. And Mac, we call it Blue Mac.
And, and man, is it gassy. It doesn't stretch like, Mac has like all these problems, right? When you, when you go to grow Mac, you know, you want to grow, they grow too tall. The stems are too long. It's just like, it's just the structure's never consistent, even if you grow a bunch of Mac seeds out. But I've been able to bring it into a package and grow a nice medium yielder that's going to test along that lines too. And it's just frosty. The water, it's going to be a washer like GMO.
Well, I, I hope you kept a clone of that. If not, you're going to have to start them from seeds.
We have kept a clone of it and, and we're, yeah, we're excited about it.
Yeah. It's got a really nice turf profile too. I, it's got like a little of a, like this way back skunk nose and, and, and it's got not like skunk, like you think of the old day skunk, but it's got a stink to it.
Yeah. I, I, there was a fruity note to it to begin with and it, and it kind of stuck in that pineapple realm for me.
Yeah. And then that, that skunk was more almost like a, almost like an Inca Cola. There was like a Cola nose to it on the back end of it.
Yeah. When you exhale. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. It's nice.
Yeah. I like that one. That's devastating. You smoke that, you know, you, you, you, you know, it's, it's, it's, it's definitely gets you ripped, but it's not one that'll put you to bed. It's definitely the sativa. It's like a haze.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And it finished pretty, it finished like,
Real early.
Yeah, exactly. It was like mid to late September. It started yellowing out a little bit earlier. So, so I, it's a heavy feeder.
And it was a little bit shorter of a plant. But, you know, at first I was like, I remember texting you pictures and being like, you know, I really liked the nose of this. It's frosty as hell, but it's not dense. And you were like, God, it's one of my washing projects. I'm like, okay, that makes a lot of sense.
Yeah. You don't want it too dense. If you get them too hard to wash, they're just, I don't like them too dense period. You know, I've got some, some Afghan strains and stuff that'll grow so hard. You can't even break them up with your fingers. You got a bud and you're going like this and you're, it's just rolling around in your finger like a rock. You know, that, that it's not, that's not a good one.
No, not for washing.
Yeah, yeah. Well, I think washing, sometimes I hear so much about washing these days. It's
almost like an echo chamber. You know, it's like, I don't know how much washing is really
going to be out there, you know, for the concentrate. So there is going to be that, but eventually
someone will be able to, instead of washing good, really good indoor grown stuff, they're
going to just take outdoor stuff, grow like a whack of it. And because I got 20 acres
going in of some, or 40 acres going in of some seed that I grew, and they're going to
wash the whole thing and try to do everything machine harvest. I just worked, they're going
to, it's disked up cloud and they're going to plant right to the dirt and let her come
up how it comes up. No, no spray, no water, no fertilize, no nothing in this area. So
hopefully I'm going to see that materialize. And when, when someone's able to pull that
off, how are we going to be indoors only going to be for state of the art flower? I
think that's, that's, that, that seems clear to me as well. I mean, indoor is only going
to be top shelf and it's only going to be a limited portion of the marketplace. I don't
know, 10, 15% of the most. Well, I think it's probably going to be stick around half. That's
all I, I, I smoke flower medically and I put it in a vape pen so that way you can taste
it, you know, and it doesn't get it too hot. So you're not breathing in any of the undesirable
things, the waxes or whatnot, and you're just getting the medicine, but it's kind of like
dabbing, but you don't have to do it. You can just grab whatever flower you got, stuff
it in there and try it. Have you never tried a vape pen? It was like a pen where you can
put flower in it. Yeah. I've never tried one of those. Yeah. Yeah. I got a PAX three
or two. I don't know. Yeah. It's great for flavor because if you really want to take
test the flavor of your thing, put it on the low. It's like a cold dab, right? You can
pack it full of nice flower and just try it. You get, you get to see your flavor with no
paper, with nothing getting in the way. I find if I vaporize for too long in that form,
the effects are slightly different as you should assume that they would be. But I find
myself getting burned out on that every so often. Just personal experience. I do like
the ability to just be able to take flower and put it in there and taste it. And like
you said, vaporizing it's so much better because you're not, you know, it's not getting too
hot and you're not getting the undesirables. But for me, I have this weird, you know,
just the effects change quickly over time. That's not the only way that I consume. You
like rolling it up then like in a joint or a bong? Yeah. Or at least breaking, breaking
that routine of just vaporizing it, you know, just personal. I don't, I don't smoke all
day long. I only smoke to go to bed because I've got neuropathy, you know, and, and, and
I, and I have to smoke. Otherwise I'll get up three or four or five times a night and
have to walk around. But I've got, I've got one particular strain that works on peripheral
neuropathy. I've got another one that works on migraines. And the one for neuropathy is
like it's a must for me. I have to have it. And sadly it's an indica one. So you wouldn't
want it during the day anyway, because you just want to sit around and eat. It makes
you hungry. And you know, it makes you hungry. Yeah. Well how is Atlas growing? What's your,
what's your view? Let's say five, five years from now, cause we know the market's going
to be changing. The U S is going to go legal. The justice department just declared a cannabis
seed, not cannabis. So, so that that's going to maybe change the market somewhat. What,
where do you see the next five years for Atlas? Go ahead, Adam. I'm, I'm as my personality,
I'm cautiously optimistic. I, at this point in my life, I maybe I should be taking more
risks, but I'm into taking less risks. And I see us as continuing to put a good amount
of money into our R&D and development division to develop our breeding program and our strain
so that when full legalization does occur, that we are even more well positioned than
we are now. But simultaneously it's expensive to run a solid R&D department. There's salaries
to pay and a lab bills every month. And you know, the chemicals we're using for testing
and the whole thing. And so, you know, we need to continue to develop our, our, our
customer base, continue making inroads into the farmers and backyard growers and continue,
you know, spreading our brand and our genetics into and getting them into the people's hands
to grow them so that we can continue to continue to improve everything that we're doing. There's
a lot of competition out there. We're aware of it. And there's a lot of people that just
aren't doing, they're not doing things the way we think are correct. They're not doing
the work. And I think that we're confident that if we're, you know, continue to take
a measured, thoughtful approach that our genetics and our program and our brand will rise to
the top.
Oh, that's so, that's so smart, Adam. You know, I found that too, is there, there's
like a million seed companies, like everybody wants to have a seed company, right? Anybody
who can, can reverse a plant or whatever, they're making seeds and, and they're, they're
not doing the homework. And I'll tell you what, that's gonna, that's gonna give the
whole market overall. And it has a bad taste in their mouth because people buy seeds that
have a herm problems that, that are just, they're bad in so many ways. And then you
spend all that time growing it up and you got like little tiny pea shaped buds or just,
just, you know, 10% weed or just so much stuff out there that, that, that it's so long-term
thinking to say, Hey, I'm just going to breed. We're going to keep doing what we're going
to do. And we're going to stay in our lane and we're not going to try to be everything
to everybody. I was talking to Simon off the camera last week and for quite a time. And
he spends, he's only got 13 strains that he does all together. And he sticks mainly with
sativa flavors because he's like a haze guy. And he's got some really nice strains, but
he, that's all he does is like 11 or 13. And he's, he's working on more, but doesn't do
a lot. And then you've got these other guys that do 11 or 13 every 60 days. You know,
you look at the ethos drop and, and I've grown everything ethos has ever dropped at least
up until six months ago. And, and I've seen some changes over the years. Let me tell you,
when you go from, from a craft seed producer, that's growing some just ridiculous fire,
like, like there's a lot of people out there, you know, and then you get the big draw and
everybody wants seeds. The temptation is to, okay, I'll just throw the, you know, this
together with this, you know, and, and see what you get. But that's just, that's effery.
You know, I don't, I don't want to cuss on air, but it's, it's just a bad plan. And I
like that, that you're gonna get to take it easy. And, and, and, and also I'll give you
a word of advice, your, your bookkeeping and your record keeping and keeping those
seeds, you know, that you have that you for four years ago, don't keep anything over four
years ago or reset it. Always reset it and keep your line moving. Okay. I like that.
Keep moving. And then if it's old and you don't, you know, you haven't had success with
it, you know, you gotta know when to pull the plug and I'll tell you what I have hacked
more plants, just, you gotta know when to pull the plug because some stuff's impossible.
I've been working some strains where I've had two different lines come out of the same
crossing, but two different flavors. And I've tried, I've the, the gas one is perfect. I
was able to separate all the terpenelein out of that. And it's a real nice myrcene that,
but the, the mate to that from that same pairing that was, that was a terpenelein dominant,
which was a really fruity. It had a sourness to it and a tang. It was really nice, but
I can never ever get that to only produce that. It'll always throw those ones with the
myrcene out. So it's about 60, 60, 40. And, and, and I've had to give up on that. Although
I love the fruity end of it, you know, I've had to give up on it at least to make it to
a foundation strain. Cause I found out, I found that some of my F1 strains will stay
really stable, but then when you, when you go out farther, yeah, they just go to hell.
And so I've been working on, on trying to work with some strains to where I get a poly
high, I'll have my foundation strains, which are equivalent to a land race. You know, a
land race is something that's just been line bred forever. Right. And selected by somebody.
Right. So I have these, these foundation strains and I crossed them together with something
that's a poly hybrid to see what I get out. And then I'll cross them back together again,
or I'll sell it, see if I get them all over the map. And I actually work purposely trying
to make the seed that I'm going to sell out to people that aren't going to be breeding
to where I can make a kind of poison pills. You've got these hitchhikers on genetics.
And so you've got these things that are lying around dormant. And I try to get things that
are lying around dormant, but they're not going to pop out in the next generation. They're
only going to come out when I go F2. And I put those in to make the stuff that people
can't take it. Right. Like, like it's lucky to see that Joe has this on my, that came
from my, from my breeding program on the washers is one that's clean. It doesn't have that.
But when I finally get to where I want to be with the seed, then I'll figure out a way
where I can cross it to something and come back out of it and then make my seed. So the
seed comes out, every one of them really identical, but then if you cross them to each
other, then you're going to get that variation. So people won't, won't steal all my hard work.
So just because we can't really in this business protect our intellectual property. So, so
I I've been hoarding genetics for, for 50, 48 years, 50 years. And, and so I hoard the
genetics and I haven't released a lot of the stuff. So that's when, when, when Andy talked
about train wreck, I go, I got train wreck back from, you know, 2003 or something like
really old train wreck. And I reset them every four years, like four, four years ago, I went
in a project, I reset everything. I have nothing that's hasn't been reset in four years. So
I'll have to get you some of that train wreck and see if it's what you remember. But yeah,
that's what I remember. So yeah, I got, I got some interesting ones. I do a lot of work
with new strains too, that, that I'll buy seeds. Like my work bought like $8,000 worth
of seeds and they started them all and, and grew them all out. And I get access to seeing
how it works. And so I'm able to get a lot of inside stuff from, from big, big grows
at the LP where I work. So it's nice. Well, enough about me. Let's talk some more about
Atlas. We're, we're getting towards the end where we're going to have some questions in
about 10 minutes or 15 minutes. What do you guys want to tell us about Atlas where people
can find your seeds, where they can get them and give them a shot. I grew Top Gun. That's
one of your autos. I think it was, I'm pretty sure it was called Top Gun cause I remembered
it because like Top Gun, you know, it's like, it's easy to remember and it grew really nice.
It just ripped and man, was it fast. That was a fast auto. I think it was like 80 days
all in or something like that or 85 adjust, just lightning fast. Tell, tell us how we
can find your seeds. Maybe someone wants to grow Top Gun. I like that profile of that.
Top Gun's a great strain. It's our, it's our fastest, most mold resistant strain that we
have. It's pretty bulletproof for, it's the one we recommend for anybody growing outdoors
in a humid climate. It's got great mold resistance. If anybody's interested in buying our seeds,
we have an online marketplace that we just launched on our website. It's atlasseed.com.
You can go to that and you can purchase all of our, most of all of our releases right
there from the, from the website. You can pay with a credit card. It's pretty easy.
You know, we'll turn around and ship out to you within a week or same, same week. We ship
a couple of times a week. And it's, you can also, if you're a larger grower or a wholesale,
if you want to be, you know, get wholesale pricing, we also offer that to, to, to entities,
whether you're a big grower or you're a reseller, if you're, if you have a grow shop or a seed
bank and you want to carry our genetics as well, we have an online wholesale portal as
well. So, you know, it's, it's pretty, we just launched that about, I think October
11th was the day we launched that. And it, and kind of to circle back to what you'd said
about the Department of Justice, like coming out in February of this past year, or sorry,
this year about saying that THC seed is classified under the hemp bill, the farm bill from 2018.
There's no THC in it at the point of sale. So that, that really pushed us over the edge
to launch our own retail space as well.
I'm really excited about hearing that because it's only a matter of time before it opens
up in the States. It's like someday I'm going to have to sell some seed, huh? It's like,
I can't keep, can't keep bringing it and keeping it and then just only sell into LPs or, you
know, only putting the seed to certain people. I gotta, we gotta figure out to do that. Well,
if anybody wants to try that seed, I recommend that as an auto that's easy to grow. Cause
I just put it where I had plants growing right next to it. And I saw you at the, what show,
some show I was speaking at and took it home and immediately planted it. And those things
rocked
And it finished, it finished late June.
Yeah. Yeah. Oh yeah. It finished, it finished like a month ago. It was like, it's like fast,
you know, real fast finished right there by itself. Yeah. No water, no water, no nothing.
Just a couple of rainy days. That's it. I planted it right in the soil, right where
I have my auto beds.
Yeah. It's a nice strain. That Top Gun is we brought the photo period strain we brought
from to auto was a, was a cheese haze cross. So it's got it's an interesting nose to that.
There are two Finos in it currently, and one is more cheesy and that cheese note does
come out. And I would say you know, cheat the cheese knows is, is a, you love it or
you hate it. But the sparkle on the, on the on the buds is, is quite nice. And the density
is quite nice. It's a, it's a great, I love growing it for flower to sell because I know
I'm going to get a good yield and I'm going to get a quick yield. And and it does move
nicely on the wholesale market.
Yeah, it was, it was, it was nice and it was a bulletproof, you know, so sure. That's good.
What do you guys what do you, what do you guys thoughts about, about the industry overall?
Just there's, let me think about how to phrase this. There's so many seed companies out there,
right? And, and, and we want to distinguish ourselves from the seed company, but yet we
don't want to bad mouth anybody else, right? So, so because there's a, there's more attitude
in cannabis than, than, you know, than chef Gordon Ramsey, right? You know, there's a
lot of attitude in that and you, you add that to breeders and, and, and breeders have some
serious attitude. And I always put my, my notice right there. Can you guys see that?
It says, be positive, thankful and humble because you didn't invent this plant. And
so this is something I always tell myself that, that, Hey, we're all human beings and
we're all, we want to be positive and helpful and thankful. And for all that we got, you
know, what, where, how are we going to, to keep like a, a thankful and a creative vibe
going forward when big business comes in and they're going to be stomping on our toes?
Go ahead.
You know, I think it's back to what we were saying before about just keeping your head
down and doing the work and staying in your lane. You know, at the end of the day, we
all just love plants. And I agree with what you were just talking about. Stay positive,
be humble. We didn't invent the plant. And I don't know, for me, cannabis stays exciting
just because there's so much work to be done, you know, compared to a lot of plants that
have been, you know, had a stigma attached to them and been in the shadows for as long
as cannabis, there's, there's a lot of work for us to do. So it's, for me, it's easy to
see a long path of just keeping your head down and trying to have small wins along the
way and ending, you know, hopefully ending up with something special at the end of the
day.
Small win. Have you guys, speaking of small wins, have you guys had any of your stuff
in any cups?
You know, we haven't. And we're just, we've been talking about that. It's kind of been
an oversight. Like we've had our heads down and not been really, I guess we neglected
to get our genetics out because a lot, a lot of it was, we didn't feel like they were,
like, we're our biggest critiques, our biggest, you know, we criticize ourselves internally
quite, quite robustly and we're nitpicky. And then we have to constantly remind ourselves
and Adam's, Adam's pretty good at that, at being like, you know, there's a certain point
where, where the genetics are just good enough to get them out there. Because when you look
at what other competition is out there it's like, okay, do our genetics stand up certain
lines? You know, it's like the debate, like when to, when to bring that, when to release
this, when to bring this to market. And some of us can be over critical and be like, well,
it's just not quite there. And you know, we could stay in, a strain could stay in R&D
for years and it's like, well, does it need to, or is it good enough to bring it out to
monetize it? Because we, you have to remember in order to feed our R&D endeavors, we need
sales to be able to be self-funded. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's right. I get, I get that
as like, I'm lucky I can give a lot. I get, try to use, get a testing army, like all kinds
of people that I can send stuff out to that'll grow it under different conditions than I
will. I know that I'm a master grower. I'm going to grow stuff right. But, but if someone's
going to take it home in their tent and open it every night and let light on it and stuff
like that, I want to know how it's going to, how it's going to affect it. And so I've,
I've got a testing army that I sent out a lot of testers to and get a lot of pictures
back and I've had good, got good, good things to say about that. You know?
Yeah. So you guys testing it all in house. That's, that's, that's, that is, that could
get expensive. Yeah. It's like, you got to grow it all out under your conditions. You've got to
have your, everything numbered. And like I saw the picture of paper bags that you guys put on
Instagram where you're doing your testing. You do it like I do put it in a paper bag, staple it shut
right on the outside of the bag. If anybody touches the bag, you lose your shit for five
minutes. Like who touched, who moved it? You know, everything's gone.
Nobody would ever do that here.
Yeah. It's like, I've, I've had stuff to where I've had a whole big batch of seeds and the wind
blew the, the label that I just had sitting on top of it out. Cause I had it outside and three
of them. And I was like, I don't even know which ones, cause it blew all the labels out. You know,
what it is. You just dump them together. Okay. Here's these giveaway seeds again.
You know, it's just like that has ever happened to us either.
Yeah. Yeah. It's like, it's like anytime you're going to grow and you you're outside and you're
doing seeds, it's like, something's going to happen. That's the, that's going to,
going to mess things up. And, and I'm a, I'm a stickler for paperwork. I, I name things not for,
with a sketchy name, but sometimes I'll just name, name something that just sticks in my head. Like
I had one that, that when it was in veg, if you rub the stem, it smelled like hot dog water.
So it's like, you know, yeah, yeah. You got to call that thing hot dog water. Although I know
it's, it's yellow bud, but it's one that I, that I grow that works on migraines. But when you,
but when it's in veg about it, you rub it and it's, it's like, what do you smell? And people
go, I don't know. I don't know if I like it. And then you go think about hot dogs when you
boil them in the water. It's like, yeah, hot dog water. It's like, wow. You know,
bet you never smelt one like that. I got another one that smells like a, a Japanese or Chinese
shower curtain. Like have you ever unwrapped the thing where there's just this new plastic
shower curtain and it smells like vinyl. Yeah. I've got one that's it's a cross between it's
an aficionado screen. It was, oh, black frost. It's called black frost. It's oh, I don't, I
forget what was in black frost, but but it, it smells like a shower curtain. It is dank. It's
like, it's like, it's like the cat piss, but this is plastic cat piss. You know, it's like,
it's a crazy strain to breed with it. It's got that that Lysol smell, you know, kind of like a
crazy Lysol smell when you breed do it. But it's, it's fun. My, my strains get me so excited. I,
whenever I find something that smells different, I just, I go, go happy on you because it's just
like, okay, that's good. And then I grow it out to see if it's, if it's finishes good. It's,
you got to love it because there's always a surprise in every, every pairing. Every time
you make it, you never know. You know, what, what's this going to be? You have all these high
hopes and then you grow it out and it's nothing but elephant ears. I call it elephant ears when
you don't get really good bud formation. It's nothing but these thicker leaves and stuff.
It's like, oh, I did some crosses with gelato, the original gelato and went with some crazy
stuff. I'll put anything to anything. Like I've, I'm so crazy. I've got the, a thing called
Grim Spoon. Have you ever heard of a thing called a strain called Grim Spoon? It's like,
it's like the leaves are so thin and that they're so thin that they can't even support their own
fingers on the fan. The fingers just kind of aim down on the whole thing. And it's a 14 week
strain, which is commercially no good, you know, and I figured I wonder what would be if I did
grew that Grim Spoon, you know, so I grew it out and crossed it with the fastest auto I could find.
And just to see, you know, you just cross stuff that to see, and it's got a, it's, it, it didn't
work, but it's fun. It's fun to do, to do stuff like that. You know, looking for the, looking for
the gold because I have a, that's how I found my 140 day auto. I've got an auto that that'll go,
that'll go from the time you plan it until the time it comes up and until it's done about 130,
140, 150 days. So, so it, you know, you plan it real early and it always finishes like the first
of September. Yeah. Ron, tell us about your, your autos. Cause you would, I mean, we we've cut our
teeth on, we specialize on autos and we have a lot of quicker autos. And as you said, there were
lightning autos, you know, the 65 to 85, you've, you've got some more longer super autos, so to
speak. Yeah, I, I, it's, it's in the sift. Since this shows the sift, I'll tell you how I do my
sift. When I was going long, I would plant 20 plants and I would, I would reverse all 20 plants
for the pollen side. And then I'd plant like 50 plants on the other side. And then I would see
which one was the last one I could get to ball up. Right. And so my longest, longest one, and
there's always a couple that are longer than the rest. And there's a couple that are like way early,
right? So usually everybody selects for the early ones and I go, well, I'm not going to do what
everybody else does. I'm going the other way. I want an auto, but I want a long auto that you
could plant it outside. And I've got a, I've been working that way. I figured someone else is in the
auto flower lane, you know, Mephisto and a lot of people are doing a hell of a bang up job and auto
flower. So I'm going to go, I, this is just the last three years I started working with auto
flowers. I mainly only photo. And I started working and making them longer and longer and
longer and longer, as long as I possibly could. And then I've worked a little bit where you cross
an auto to a photo too, and make fast flowers. But, but that long auto was one where I just kept
it fully auto. And then, then I was selecting to get rid of that auto stink. You know, that, that,
that smell that autos have some autos. I think it's a little, no, the little floral, I forget
anyway, you know, autos have some autos have that funky auto smell. And so I've been able to get
that auto smell completely out of my longer autos. And, and I've, I've, I've truncated it down to
only one auto strain that has two phenols, one that goes on the gas side and one that stays on
the sweet side. So it's more like a one has got a little GG four type soury, something with a
little gas with it. And then another side, which is more the wedding cake type, fruity, fruity
thing, but it gets really frosty. And so that's the only autos that I work with are just that,
that soup going super long. And are they like 120, 130, 140 day? Yeah, yeah. They're really long.
You know, if, if you get them, you'll get some of them that'll, that'll be a little quicker,
like a hundred day, 110 day. But I just keep constantly selecting for the long ones,
the long ones, the long ones, the ones that come out first, get killed, killed, killed, killed,
killed until you get that last flush of the long ones. And then you just go with those.
So then the yield is going to be obviously higher than,
Oh, huge. Well, you've seen that plant I was shaking. It was like an eight footer.
That's an eight foot auto flower that the bottom half is just clean. You know,
there's nothing on it, you know, and the top half is just, you know, your apical mare stem with like
this big tight bud, maybe an inch, an inch. It was like a, as good as a, an indoor bud almost.
And it was grown out, outside with no fertilizer, no nothing. And to trim it, you can just trim it
by, by just rubbing, rubbing your hands on it. I showed you when I, we are on that video, you just
go like that and all the fans and everything falls off and you just got clean bud.
So it's, it's fun. How do you guys, you guys sort your autos, sift your autos in a different way.
When I was talking to you though, you said you liked my, my idea of sifting on the,
on the donor, donor end too, huh? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, definitely.
I mean, that makes total sense. If that's what, if that's your goal, then that's,
that's a brilliant way to do that. Yeah. And well, I, on, on all autos,
I couldn't find a good way to sift my donor. Right. So I figured if I'm going to have the 50
targets, I need 50 donors. Right. And if I'm going to sort, then I, I, I plant those three
weeks earlier than, than everything else, my donors. And then I reverse them three or four
weeks and then I reverse them. And then I look at, at, at how they look, how they smell. You know,
I can completely test that plant before I use its pollen on the others. And then when they're all
done, I can go to the others and, and, you know, keep only four or five plants out of the 50. So
I'm able to truncate my lines down really fast like that. I've found with the, with the autos.
When you sift those, those donors, are you going like, what, what are your criteria for selection?
Because they're not in the chart, right? Structure, color. Well, no, it's structure,
color, terpene, you know, all, all of the above. And then, and the make or break is if it's a
really early one. Okay. Sorry. You're perfect in every way, but you're too early. Right? So you
just, you find it as you do that. And as you keep breeding that in, you're going to get longer and
longer and it's going to start stretching out on you and you're going to get longer flowering times.
That's why I think you can get these 60 day autos that you can plant it with a seed and it's just
done in no time. I think somebody just said, Oh, that's the first one to, you know, the first one.
Now I'll just use that. Sure. So are, do you feel like the benefits to these really long autos are,
are the increased terpene profile, like increased terpene content in the plant and increased yield?
Or what do you, what do you feel like the benefits are besides the terpene profile?
I think yield you're, you're able to, you're able to use your whole season, right? So I'm from
Oregon and spend a long time. People can grow easy there. It's really easy. You just put it out,
you know, you get something that's, you know, mid September finish and it's easy. You know,
people can shoot ducks in a barrel growing weed in Oregon, but you try to grow it here in Jupiter,
where I live on the, you know, in Edmonton, Alberta, you got, you got to think outside the box.
And so that's why I pretty much focus on everything 30 degrees north and north. Right. And so, so I
can't, my stuff won't go at the equator. If I've had some people grow some stuff in Guatemala,
which is north of the equator, but, but not very far and it didn't work. So, so, so I just focus on,
on what grows well for here and that the long autos are able to where somebody's in a short
climate, like in Pennsylvania, maybe you guys got a wet fall. Sometimes you got wads, lots of rain
and everything. So, so, and because I have so much powdery mildew where I'm at and so much
rain and botrytis and everything, this is just the, the, the perfect place to test for bad stuff
to happen to your, your plants, because I've been able to sift half of my stuff,
dyes from botrytis because it can't, it can't cut the rain and the wet.
Yeah. I noticed that of those floor seeds that you sent, they were all very mold resistant. So
it's obviously very clear that, I mean, you had said that you select for, for early flowering or
for yeah, earlier flowering and well, I guess not all, not your autos, but these were all, yeah,
these were photo periods and mold resistant. So that was very evident that the mold resistance
was there. But what I'm hearing from you is that you can't grow at your latitude. You can't grow
two rounds of even quick autos. It's even, it's even, it's even, it's hard to get that done. So,
so why not just grow a, a medium to long auto that's going to maximize doing the, the, the,
all that sun you're getting in July and August and then, you know, harvest in early September.
Yeah, exactly. That, that's why I got people that are growing hemp and stuff up here in Alberta. If
they can grow the hemp and finish it out there, I can, I got a strain, I got strains that can,
can finish here and, and they're respectable. I'm telling you when you smoke the flower off it,
we just took the flower off of one that I planted outside and seed grew all the way to finish. It
wasn't sprayed, fertilized, watered, anything, nothing. And, and took it in, it was over 20%.
That's, that's, and it's a huge, big, and it won't blow eight, nine feet and they won't blow over.
I wonder how they compare to our semi-full terms. Our semi-full terms are 120 days
from start to finish. Probably similar. Yeah. I just want, you know, the characteristics,
it sounds like you've really got, you've really bred them down to the place where you feel like
you're really happy with them. Well, I got to get, I got to get them to kick off in August,
right? How, that's the longest day of the year is what the 21st of August. Yeah. So,
if I had your, your, your quick flower here, it wouldn't click. It wouldn't, it wouldn't start
until the second week of September, first week of September to flower, right? No, 14 and a half
hours. No, they, oh, up there. Oh, and then like, I, two weeks ago I was minus 20. Yeah. And, and,
and we, we get to minus eight regularly in the first or second week in September. Yeah. So my,
and my stuff is a really cold tolerant too. I'm, I'm, I, I can grow, grow stuff out. I'd love to
send you a nice, a nice sampling, a smattering of, of our semi-full term and our full term genetics
and have you grow them out specifically with a, with a eye towards their finish dates. I'm really
curious. I don't think we've had anyone. Have we had anyone as far North as you? No, we, we had,
no, last year was our first year commercially in Canada and we, we got our autos off well,
the autos, we got great, great results back from there, but none of our growers were able to get
our semi-full terms, our quicks in the ground. You need to be, yeah, soon enough. You need to
be sowing them in May and putting them out before the summer solstice. So like before the third week
of June, the key of it is getting them sown in May. And then when you get them out there in the
ground, and I know that's like, you know, where you are, Ron, you're probably, well, not you
specifically because you're, you're sowing in the winter or in the fall and then they're coming up
but a lot of growers aren't able to get out until, you know, mid June before the soil warms up. So,
you know, we had basically had, we had, we were working with about five commercial growers and
they, by getting seed up there, we didn't get seed up there in time and they didn't get them
started in time to have a real good look at those, those semi-full terms. I'd love to get them out
in plugs then or solo cups. They grew them in cups and hand planted them out. Yeah, exactly.
That's a situation where the semi-full terms, because they're so vigorous, it's, it's in most
situations appropriate to transplant. The densities are way less per acre because they are so vigorous.
They don't have any transplant shock or any issues unlike the autos, which can do. And because you
want them started and exposed to natural light in May, that's the key. They can kind of let them
get root-bounded ugly if you have to. And then they just have to be transplanted, you know, when,
when soil conditions or field conditions allow for. I'd love to get a smattering into your hands.
If you're interested to try them. I think you'd have good success if you, if you followed that
kind of planting regime. Yeah, I would like to, I owned a huge Christmas tree farm in Oregon
and I had a planter that we would plant the Christmas trees with and you, they grow the
Christmas trees in beds. We grow beds of seedlings and then our two-year seedling would go out and
we'd undercut those seedlings. I wonder if somebody could do something like that with
cannabis. If they got like, you planted them really close. So they got long and lanky and,
and, and, and got some stem to them and then did a root trim on them and machine planted them in a
thing where it just ran a disc down and opened it up and then folded the soil back over if,
if they could handle some, cause this plant can handle some brutal stuff.
Yeah. Yeah. Especially these, these semi full-term genetics because they're just so vigorous.
The main thing would be making sure that you didn't, that you got a bunch of that taproot,
you know, it's just getting enough root ball off them. It's like any other, you know, nursery
plant. I mean, you can do that with peppers and tomatoes and celery roots and all sorts of goodies.
But it would just, it would just be the handling. But I think that that approach could work.
Yeah. Nothing, nothing really in the vegetable market has the tap roots of cannabis.
Yeah. I mean, cannabis is just got a phenomenal taproot, you know, I've, I've just seen huge,
huge trap tap roots that you dig down and it's two feet down. It's still as big as your pinky,
the taproot. And it's got every six inches or four inches. There's a layer
of little feeder roots that come out on every layer. So,
well, we are about the one hour, 10 minute mark. And so we're about the time where we take some
questions from the, from the, the, the gang out there watching. What questions do we have out
there, London for the, for the guys? So first when I have, I have one that came up for me and I got
two other questions that'll come up. And then we'll, we'll, we'll end up with the first question
I have is really for myself is, is one thing that I've seen trending in the industry and space
recently and talking to large suppliers and, you know, like I do, whether hydroponic equipment,
so on and so forth. One thing that we've seen trending is the movement kind of away from
hobbyists growing. And I'm wondering if maybe this kind of trend towards, you know, less hobbyists
growing might not just necessarily be the fact that good quality cannabis is becoming cheap and
easy to afford and, and relatively easy to get here. I'm wondering if, if, and you kind of touched
on a little bit, if the, the challenges is that there's so much bullshit seed coming to market
that there's all these people, they're trying it for the first time and they're getting these mixes
and it's not hitting the standard that we see with every other production plant. What you guys
have thought on the damage that that could do to, you know, the hobbyist side of our industry long
term? I don't see, I'm thinking like the hobbyist grower is kind of, they're going to abuse the
genetics in general. Like the, you know, they're, they're going to have issues, more issues with
germination. They're going to have more issues with herming with like checking the tent every
night with a flashlight when they shouldn't be. And I think in general, if my experience with
a large swath of the hobbyist growers is the, the more, the less advanced ones just are happy to get
some flower, they're excited, you know, like when I'm at trade shows London and, and I get, you know,
these big burly blue collar construction worker guys that are, that are in a state that now is
legal. And they've come to the booth and they're like, man, you know, it's like, I don't have to
be so clandestine here. I can actually talk about it. The way they describe their plants is like,
they're talking about their baby, like their daughter, like they're just this precious little,
like, you know, you know, a gem in their eye and they get real soft and sweet about it. And it
always makes me like kind of smirk and laugh inside. It's like, you know, they're, they're,
I think they're happy that they, that they've got flower, right. And they've, they've done it
themselves. They're DIY specialists are like, you know, real excited to share that. And so I think
those types of people are just excited to, to, to do it themselves. And probably the quality of the
flower is, you know, it's probably it's less, it's substandard to a certain degree from what
you can get in dispensary. Now that the more experienced at home growers, I think they're
largely looking for phenotypes. They love these mystery packs of like eight different phenos,
because they go, oh, look, I, I can hunt this. I can find the one that I especially like.
And if, you know, are they, are they hitting the note on their, on their THC percentage?
Like, are they getting that 28 to 32, which you see in the dispensaries now? Probably,
maybe, maybe not, but here's the thing. They're probably not spending that couple hundred dollars
to get it tested. And they're just going to be going on, you know, looks and, and sparkle and
and sparkle and then the effects. So it's, it's sort of, it's a mixed bag. I don't know,
I don't know how much damage we're actually, you know, doing to the industry or, or grower or
breeders are doing, you know, I don't think the enthusiasm for the at home grower is waning
is basically what I'm trying to get at. Yeah, you'll always have a, you'll always have a
McDonald's out there being consistently average, you know, and so you're going to probably always
have the McDonald's, the cannabis seeds out there, banging out the, the do-si-do or the,
the whatever they say is the perps or whatever it is, amnesia, haze, you know, they have all these
ones out there, wedding cake, and you can, you can grow one wedding cake and you don't know if it's
going to be the same. Sometimes they are, sometimes they aren't. And I've popped a lot of wedding cake
seeds over the years, let me tell you. But I don't think, I don't think they'll, they'll get in the
way. I think that we're actually doing some of the cutting edge work that's going to make the difference
between when we can make a seed that someone can poke in and you can poke it in a quarter inch to
a half inch depth, and it's still a pop up and grow a nice plant for them without getting a PM,
you know, they're watering it with city tap water. Some of the things that, that the autoflowers
that you're making, I can't imagine anybody can't grow Top Gun. That thing is a just, it grows
itself, you know, a nice structure, just, it grew up kind of like this with one apical, it was just
perfect. And, and that's what people want, you know, if they get, get those auto flower seeds,
they'll probably. Yeah, we, we would look forward from a marketing standpoint to when Walmart can
start carrying, you know, plants and then, you know, just sell. I mean, what every, every backyard
at home grower would want a Top Gun to take home. That's like, you know, a one or a three gallon pot
and put on their back deck. Yeah. Well, I think that you could make, you could actually make a
peat pellet that we could put a seed in the peat pellet and then close it back up and just sell
them. So they put it on the top of the ground, step on it and walk away. And then, and then it
comes up by itself and they go, Oh, look, there's my little plant. You know, it can be done.
I like that idea. Yeah. I was going to say one product that I thought was pretty effective for
just like the first time home grower marketplace is one of our partners was selling you know,
the whole kit, basically a seedling that's already in a pot with the right amount of fertilizer
and a small cage just with an auto flower in there. And the plants are already a few inches
tall and it's, it's basically just add water and keep it alive on your porch. And you know, that,
that was pretty neat to see. And I could see that, especially as things open up and people can just
go into a store and buy those seedlings all potted up like you do for most other plants right now.
Yeah. That'll be great for that marketplace for people that aren't super, you know, plant nerds
and just want to have a canvas plant. It is a weed. It grows pretty, it's a pretty, pretty
tough little plant. I'll tell you. It's really picky indoors though. Right? Yeah. You know,
you're going to grow it in cocoa or peat or dirt or whatever. You're going to grow it indoors. You
know, you're going to be careful of the water. You water it. Everybody over waters it over
fertilizes it, you know, whatever. No, the VPD is, they have no idea what, you know, they're got 40%,
30% humidity in the house and it's always a 21 degrees, 70 Fahrenheit. You know,
it's brutal for some of these people throw at the plants. What other questions do we have London?
I actually reading the other two. One was do you only plan on having auto flowers? And you
guys touched on that. So we don't really need to get into that one. And the other one talked
about your nursery, nursery methods, which you guys got into. So there aren't any more questions
at this point in time. Okay. Well, that was a, it was great talking to you, Adam, Andy, and Joe.
You know, I loved it when I met Joe at the grow up there in Victoria, it was a, it was a, it's
nice to see young men doing a good job with a good attitude, how they're getting, how they're going to
proceed. You know, it's, it makes me feel comfortable that I'm retiring next year. And
when I, when I kind of slowly figure out what I'm going to do for the rest of my life, there'll be
someone out there where I can go get some seeds, but I probably, I probably got enough if I, if I
planted a seed a minute for the next 4,000 years, I would, I'd be about ready to get some seeds.
Well, it's great talking to you guys. You got anything to close with?
Shameless promotions. Okay. Yeah. Check us out at atlasseed.com. You can, you can order,
order seeds online and, and what you get from us, if you're an LP listening, or you're a large
scale commercial grower, we pride ourselves on the, the free consulting we give you for being a
customer of ours. We will give you all the information that you need so that you're
successful at pulling off medium to large scale grows. We do it ourselves. And we know how we've
made all the mistakes or a lot of the mistakes in the book. I mean, so, so we, we know intimately
what it is you're going to need to do in order to be successful in your success is our success. So
we're, we're, we're excited to to bring on new customers and you know, Ron, we really appreciate
you meeting you and having you, you know, bringing us on here. And I look forward to more, many more
conversations with you and I'm sure we all do. We'll do some collaboration, Lord willing, and,
and, and get some, get some Atlas, some gold hat Atlas going on. Awesome. Thank you so much.
Thank you. Yeah. Well, it's been great. Great talking to you guys. London, do you have our
little show, our out, our exit on our show? Ready to go. See you guys. It's been great.
Next week, Kevin Jodry next week is going to be on. So tune in next week for Kevin Jodry. We're
going to talk about the, the justice department and who knows what he's got something to talk
about all the time. So it's going to be great. Nice.
