Why hello, hello, hello everybody and welcome to another episode of Cannabis for Breakfast.
As usual, we like to get things started with a quick thank you from our sponsors, Bavita.
Keep that weed fresh and delicious. We actually did an awesome episode where we brought in
their scientist and my scientist to combat their scientist and they got along way too
well because it turns out that they're really actually very, very useful stuff. So go ahead,
check out that episode if you want to learn more. It's Bavita Tell All. It's a pretty
funny episode. And then of course, Wildfire Glass. It's all I'm consuming out of. It's
actually all I drink out of too. I drink out of their cups too. But you're here to see
our special guest, sun-grown mid-strever wiki. So without any further ado, let's... Oh my
God, I clicked the wrong anti button. There we go. And here we are in the show. I'm excited
so many cool plants last time and we're going to dig into those. We've got the video in
the background there. But one thing that we were kind of chatting a little bit about before
the episode and thought would be kind of a fun way to get our conversation rolling because
we always have just good fluent conversation is kind of the store, cure and distribution
of cannabis. Now, I mean, like you've taken your, have you taken all of your flower down
by now? No, I still have a few plants out. Damn you, California. Like it was all of mine.
Like what was left on the blanches that are like suffered dead. Like they're just so grody
looking. So I mean, so what you have, can you, can you talk us through your harvesting,
drying and curing methodology? Like you're doing outdoor, do you rinse your plants? Do
you not rinse your plants? Do you, you know, do you stop, do you spray them with anything
on the way up? Like what's kind of your, your, your two weeks prior your harvest and then
your two week and then your, your post-process process.
So yeah, basically for the last two weeks, if I can, I'm trying to just give clean water
and flush the plants out. Not really do too much. I'm reducing my water a lot at that
point. A lot of times here we're usually having cooler stormier weather in October and November.
So the water uptake is way reduced and I've tried to let things fade out, ride out as
long as I can check the heads under a microscope. You know, I usually like to let things go
a little bit longer than most other folks. I let things get a little bit amber and then
I do my harvesting. Other folks like to stay in the milky white range with their heads.
What's your thoughts on that? Because I find like one thing that's a common point of contention
and discussion with a lot of OGs and a lot of people in this space that are like big
hash heads, the big hashers are like the fuck boy Rosins. You know what I mean? Like the,
oh, I have this glossy white, almost clear Rosin. And it's just like, well, if you look
back and look at all these amazing products and go out there and try a bunch of products,
these clear Rosins, usually like they're kind of early harvested. They don't have as developed
of a flavor profile in them. You know, like, I don't know. What's your opinion on that?
Yeah. It's definitely going to be cultivar specific. Hydropinoline things, you'll usually
want to take them a little bit earlier because trypinoline has a degradatory effect. It seems
like on the cannabinoids and the overall quality of the plant, at least that's been my experience.
So if you let like a train wreck go too long and don't pick it when it's in the like cloudy,
milky white stage and let it go, Amber, your weeds going to Brown out. It's not going to have
a very good profile in terms of the flavor and the nose. And yeah, so that's something I've
noticed with train wreck sort of strains or trypinoline dominant strains or cultivars.
The other conventional, conventional discussion. No, but that's interesting. Cause I've,
I find that trypinoline strains also, they don't last like their, their quality period is, is,
is briefer, you know, and it's not, yeah. And they'll like, I mean, Skunkman Sam, David Watson,
will talk about how the hazes would corrode the like inner rubber on the like jars that he had.
And there's just sort of a, a solvent like effect to that particular turf profile. And so it's one
that doesn't have a, a good shelf life and definitely want to take it a little bit earlier
in my experience. Other things I've typically like Afghan varieties or things that are more along the
Afghan line of things. I've typically wanted to let go longer. And that's just because I find that
in the last week or two, they really, they develop a lot. They chunk out a lot more and the
profile and the effects are more robust. You get more of the, the gassy, funky notes in those last
couple of weeks, less of the fruity flavors, and you get much more of the, the heavy, heavy effects
I've noticed when I let my Afghans go those last couple of weeks. And that goes for a lot of
hybrids as well, because so many things are highly hybridized. So yeah, that's typically how I roll.
I usually try to let things... Do you do like harvested stage? Like do you take the top of the
plant and then like leave the plant to go a little bit longer and then take the bottom half of the
plant? Or do you do like your whole harvest in one go? I, it depends on the plant. Usually I try to
clean things out underneath so that I don't have a lot of undercarriage that will then need more
development. If I haven't gotten around to that and haven't cleaned things out, or if they're just
so dense that they've still got development that needs to go on underneath, I'll let them stay a
bit longer. But I typically, I'll get broken branches or different things like that throughout,
because it's all outdoor. And there's, you know, the winds on my property are insane. So I will
get a broken branch here and there. And I usually use those as testers to kind of gauge whether or
not something can be harvested earlier, or whether or not it really needs to develop and fully finish
out. And then for the actual like harvesting and curing stage, basically I want to do as little as
possible to the plant. I'll remove the fan leaves and try and get the plant off the, get the buds
off the plant and into a cold dark room as quickly as possible. And with as minimal damage as possible,
because it's almost, I always looked at harvesting and that point as a point of no return and like
diminishing returns almost like you can only fuck shit up. And like you want to minimize the amount
of fucking shit up in that process. You want to reduce damage to the actual plant, you want to
reduce handling, you want as few touch points as possible. Get it into a bin, get it into a dark
cool storage and hung doing as little damage to the plant as possible while maintaining those nice,
you know, I'm off the grid. So it's really hard for me to maintain constant temperatures. I typically
have blacked out my entire drying space in the like basement of my house and everything's
completely blacked out. There's an AC and a dehue running that are not big and not necessarily like
sufficient for my space. And I make do essentially with that, trying to keep the temperature in the
60s and the humidity in around 50%. And then after if I can make it 10 to 14 days, I will
then hopefully be able to take everything off the line and put it into a bucket all down, put it into
the big bags and try and get those in bins and maintain sort of there can maintain in stasis for
a while until I can get around to trimming it. And like for a while, I mean like all damn year.
JASON BUCKLEY Until I need to smoke it. Until I want it until I need to clean up a jar to have it
ready to go. Right. I like that. Like people don't like I've talked to a few people and there's like
this evening out period that happens after you take it from the hang dry and pop it into those
store places where the water like consistently comes throughout. But like I love that. I love
how you start every question. It's it's cultivar specific when it comes down to it, because like
A we're learning a whole bunch and B it is completely cultivar specific. These things act
so differently sometimes. It's crazy. Like it really is. And then when we get all these poly
like these really varying plants that are that are mixed together, it's like you never know
what's going to what's going to happen with them or exactly how to do it. You really, really want
like two or three runs of a consistently and maybe maybe even asexually propagated plant before you
really understand its ups and downs. Right. Like I mean, unless you're running a line over again,
mind you, your experience and background with it is quite varied. So it helps.
Yeah, I mean, I've grown out a lot of different things. I will say this year I was.
I don't know. It was crazy. Good, crazy or bad, crazy. A little bit of both.
So I ran things that were just so divergent. I ran the Pacific Northwest hash plant cross to the
puck back cross, which is essentially itself a back cross because the Northwest hash plant is
the parent that made the puck. So I grew those out and they were just enormous balls of Afghan,
quote unquote, indica, just insanity. But some of the most dense, enormous nugs,
short squat, fat round plants, enormous fan leaves width wise. And I ran those next to
the Malawi Wilson, the Malawi Chem and Mango Tie from from Real Cannabis Seed Company and
Malawi Wilson from Masonic and and also the puck that's crickets and cicadas who also
they dropped that line. And so and I made the Malawi Chem anyway. Point being,
the Malawi Chem are still out there. The Mango Tie are still out there and have not even been
harvested. They're you know, the Mango Tie will probably make it to next year if I let it go full
term somewhere in January or February. The Malawi Chem honestly is just now there was one that or
there were two that were kind of earlier and then the three other plants that I had go full term
were all very easily December 1st harvest here outdoor. And so growing those together and having
to deal with the logistics and the differences in the cultivars, their nutritional needs and what
they prefer, their drying and curing needs, like just completely different beasts and animals.
John Thompson And what like, because you get like in BC, we don't we don't we don't talk about plants
that that grow till next year because it's just not going to happen. They're not going to survive.
But we do. There's actually a breeder that we've been doing the show The Sift with Ron Harrington
and he's got plants that that seeds drop the year previous. He puts them down in the soil and
they'll actually come and sprout up the following year after freezing over, which is pretty cool.
And do very, very well and totally freeze out, which is which is very, very neat.
But once like I said, we don't run into these. This isn't something that we'll see here in Canada
outside like ever. So what do you see? What are the challenges that that come up in that
later half of the year that we don't get? Like when you when you like typically, you know, by
September, we're looking at shutting down the plant year again, you're restricting that water
maybe a little bit. You're keeping it very plain. You're not putting any feeding. If you've got a
plant going all the way till January, what does that period look like? I imagine it might be a
little bit different or a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. No. So it's well, one, this plant was started
February of this year, so it will basically be almost exactly a year old when it's finally ready.
Nutritionally, this is very much of a landrace varietal or cultivar. It doesn't need anywhere
near the amount of food that the other plants that I was growing. So it's able to grow and do
just fine on a much lower diet than the pucks, for instance, which were right next to it.
So I haven't had to feed it nearly as much. I have because it's going so long,
continued to feed it longer than anything else than I had. So it's continued to get food up
into November where like I've never really. Usually I'm done fertilizing and feeding the plant.
I've primarily been giving it the peacock from slow nickel. I started following slow nickel this
year. If people don't know who he is, he's somebody on Instagram and he has a number of
different like techniques and products that he makes available to people. And they're
calcium based products that I've found have been a real difference maker in my garden.
When people I saw a question, how do I select females? These are all just seeds. They're random.
So all of the seeds that were grown out this year were just they were healthy, vigorous plants
in veg, but like all of the pucks, every one of them was selected and grown out.
And even plants that I thought were runs ended up performing adequately in the garden.
They didn't. I've had some interesting because I've got the puck F1s that Jodri brought up
with the red Lebanese pucks that he brought up for the unicorn cup. And I ran a bunch and I had
like they're all over the place. But I had one that was runty as fuck. I mean,
fully runty. And just like I was just like, oh, fuck, I'll put I guess I'll put it in.
Like I got room. I'm running my last stuff down because I'm leaving in March. So it's like I
can't keep putting flour down and otherwise it's going to run longer than I am. So I like I'm like
I throw it in and it was so runty and it's just. Beastly beautiful now, like it's turned into a
very unique and very, very special plant like they were all over the place for your pucks.
I'm seeing one one specific, you know, phenotype out of them that has a very small bract.
Like their bracts are like really, really, really like almost like little sativa, like very tiny
little bracts on them that I'm not used to seeing. Like it was almost like, are you a dude? Like
you're not showing me like until the pistols. Like it seems weird. Do you see something similar
in that area? Or am I just maybe. Well, the the cross that I had with the Pacific Northwest
Ash plant, I felt like those two plants were pretty divergent. Like I when Mr. Bob Hemphill
came down to the region cup, latter conference in Humboldt last year, he had a jar of all the
different crosses that he had made and we smoked them all. Jodery was there. Bam, a whole bunch of
cats were there and it was fire. Every one of them was fire. The red lebs stood out as the most
unique of all of them. Like everybody there pretty much agreed that the red web was on some whole
other shit and that like all the crosses were fire. But the red lab had a uniqueness to it that
some of the others like didn't have. All the others, the Sensi Star Puck, the Pacific Northwest
Ash plant, the Puck back cross itself. And I think there were a couple others. All of them were kind
of in a similar world. They were all very funky, very gassy, very rubbery, all green herb, all
super frosty, super dense, incredible nodes. Mr. Bob's a great and Hannibal are incredible growers.
But the red lab had just a whole different bud structure, a different nose, a different note to
it. So I could see a bunch of different standout varieties or a range of variation in the red
web pucks that may not be expressed in the others. Where the others were all kind of consistent in
the Puck universe.
I remember hearing about those pucks. When you and Jodri and all of you guys had that session, I mean I think it was
there was oh my god I can't believe I'm spacing on his name. He's a G greenhouse
like yeah you know who I'm talking about?
Oh yeah yeah yeah Eric.
I was on a clubhouse room and it was like you guys popped on and everybody was talking about how
fire this puck was. And I'm like oh my god I have to find it. Like this is what this is. Give it next year and it's all
anybody's gonna want in Canada. Because it's all everybody's been talking about last year. It takes
about a year and then by that time it's like oh well we've moved on to the next thing. It's like
but we just got the puck here. We just got the cut man. Like we just got the only good one
that's actually legit. And it's like f**k this is the one challenging part of Canadian. It's that
background. So you see a little bit of variation. One thing that we'd like to talk about is like I
mean you're not you know maybe selling the large volume but we look at legal spaces and legal
countries that are changing over and these hubs being set up like Germany is converting.
Canada is federally legal. US looks like something might happen here. And there's a lot of these
potential changes. Once you cure, store and move a product one challenge that we see here in Canada
that was really f**ked the whole thing up is the development of the distribution.
So essentially we've had the farms here in Canada submit their like rosins or their high quality
products and into the Canadian thing. And it sits in a warehouse at room temperature for months,
maybe even a year before it gets out. And that's not great. It's like putting spinach
over your mic. My camera is going all over the place right now. It's freaking me out.
That's not what we want. That's not what we look at. What's your thought on long-term storage?
Because you were talking also about you know like you have flour that you have from last year that
you might you know probably won't get around to trimming it for flour. And in general like what's
your how do you store it? How do you keep it good? How do you keep it fresh for a year?
What's your methodology when it comes to that space? Yeah sorry guys if that's a little glitchy
and bothering you. It looks like it's better now. I'll have to set up a separate camera for
our next show. Yeah long-term storage typically I mean there you just have to have something
climate controlled. And so for my stuff like for personal head stash sort of thing out of my
medical garden as it were. That I just try and keep in a cool in the coolest darkest place in
my house. And I keep large bins and get to it as needed and as you know I want it essentially.
I will do jars for some of the like best of the best and just maintain a personal stash of jars
available like you said kind of going and trimming up the jar as needed.
Like there's something nice about opening up a glass jar and giving it to your friend. You know
what I mean? Like it like well you could well there's probably you know a better plastic vessel
I just I'll open a friend a jar to have a whiff. Yeah I've always preferred jars for like long-term
head stash storage of like here's all my stuff that I'm smoking and have available to me. I'll
prefer to keep it in jars and that's mostly just because I don't want the damage of the like I hate
turkey bags. And so I would much prefer to keep things long term in a in a hard vessel. And so
that's and jars have just typically been the thing. I grew up around hippies who do lots of
canning and stuff so we always had tons of jars. And but yeah then but in like in the rec market
though there I mean California has produced so much cannabis. There is insane amounts of cannabis
sitting in freezers. There's many years old cannabis that still hasn't sold that's been
grown out. And really it seems like the autos when the autos hit last year in the middle of the summer
it just completely destroyed the entire cannabis market for at least for outdoor growers and for
cultivators because essentially the prices started dropping at every different increment from or you
know indoor started to fall, light depth started to fall, and outdoor was essentially worthless.
And you know people were getting like 200 or less a pound for outdoor and or at least those
were the offers on the table. And so we just have a glut of cannabis and we have too few retail
spaces and a distribution bottleneck that's just destroyed the farming community across California.
And that's the farming community that was able to get licensed. That doesn't even include all of the
vast majority of people who have been farming for years who weren't even able to have the opportunity
to get licenses either because of local bans or because of the barriers to entry which is cost,
infrastructure, where your property is located, a whole host of different variables that have
basically precluded the vast majority of people from coming online. And those who did have
yeah are operating in just completely screwed up supply chain.
Right and like these are special products and lots of care over the year put into taking them.
It's just like it's savage to see people's hard work get degraded in a warehouse for no
fucking reason when it's just not necessary. It's like you go into dispensaries even here
and some of these dispensary owners don't even store their, they only store their beverages
in coolers. It's like what? You only put your beverages in the fridge? It's like take all the
resins and all the rosins and all the stuff and even in all the weed and put it in that fridge
and keep it cold because the bit the volatiles are gonna volatile. Like what's gonna happen?
So I'm interested to get into the flower but before we do last question that we'll kind of
talk about in the end of the season before we like start digging into these these flower videos is
what were some challenges that came up this year? Was it an easy year? Was it a better year
than before? Were there different challenges? What were some of the hard points and maybe how
did you get through them? Because I think that that helps a lot of people move forward in their
gardens as well. Yeah, it's been a rough year. So we talked in August last and...
You look a little battle-worn. You look like you got that fall 90-yard stare.
Yeah, no, it was a brutal year. I would say this is probably the hardest outdoor year
I've seen in California in 20 years, 22 years. It's crazy. So
and it all pretty much happened after we talked. So the beginning of September here was just brutal.
We had a two, yeah, two weeks of triple digit weather and then not only was it triple digits
for two weeks, about a week of that was about 108 to 115 degrees. Absolutely fucked. Just it was
the worst weather I've ever seen. It really, and like September is essentially when things will be,
you know, at least those pucks were well into flower. So having that weather hit right then
really screwed up the plant's ability to continue to produce flower and to grow in that time period
because it was so hot. I have a solar well and it malfunctioned during the heat wave. So not only
did we have, you know, 110 degrees, we also had a well that wasn't working. So the plants got heat
stressed and water stressed. It caused all sorts of issues in the garden. I noticed that I had
Fusarium in at least one plant and it's a large garden bed. And so Fusarium typically has like a
weird relationship with the plant where it will be in there, but you won't necessarily have any
effects as long as there's sufficient water to keep the Fusarium and the plant happy. You can't
do dry backs though when you've got that going on. And so I noticed that on the day after the
like hottest day in record history of like middle September, that I had a dead branch and that's
like a telltale sign of Fusarium. And sure enough, there was Fusarium in that plant and I have to
really give a lot of credit to RootWise Organics, I believe. You can get them through Build-A-Soil,
but RootWise, they're the micro blend, just their general microbes. It's got Trichoderma in it. I
gave really heavy doses of that to all my plants throughout flower. I also gave the BioFoss and the
the Catalyst and I used slow nickels, calciums throughout flower and was really able to contain
and slow any spread of the Fusarium, but that could have just been completely catastrophic
and destroyed everything if it had taken over. So...
It's awesome to hear because we've been, we've been on a, oh I've been on a, which means everybody
who's been watching my content has been on a rhizophage kind of sidebar right now, digging
into this information. Like with James White last week, a couple weeks ago and some other people.
And Jeff Lowenfeld's new book out, right? So it's a big topic of conversation and specifically the
bacterial's influence on the plant, whether it be terpene profiles, cannabinoid profiles, like
we're thinking that it might have a lot more to do with that than they previously thought.
But it was like, one of the things is like the health of a plant and outpopulating these systems
and how useful these things are, like Trichoderma and these beneficial bacterias in preventing this
spread. Like you're not, like the, you're not necessarily going to stop it, but you are going
to prevent, you're going to fill the spaces where it can go. And if you can fill those spaces where
it can go, it can't go anywhere. And ideally you save yourself some heartache, right? And that's,
that's like that success that you had over the, over the, over that period is, is evidence to
that, that thought, right? Like that, that whole area of, of research that's happening and thing
that's going on right now, like let's use bacteria to defend ourselves against bacteria.
Yeah. Yeah. And also just the, I found that the calcium products, like
filling in the hollow stems and also hardening off the cell walls around the infected areas,
essentially was essential. Those two effects from the calcium products, it's the CA-106
and the PCAL, I noticed immediate impacts and it was very noticeable. Then the other,
the root wise, I feel like being able to provide the trichoderma and do that throughout the
flowering cycle is really the, you know, that right there probably saved me. And,
but environmental stress is insane. And when you see like, it can have cascading effects. And so
when you have sustained period in the late season and flower of a hundred degrees to 114 degrees,
and then you have additional effects that you're noticing, it's, it's super stressful because,
you know, September is never when you want to have those things going on in your outdoor garden.
It definitely like pushed everything back in terms of harvest and flower time. Like the Malawis
didn't even start really flowering until that like heat wave started to abate. They were just
in insane stretch mode. And so, you know, yeah, it's been a interesting year.
So when it's hot like that, like you just got to like in, in your, in your farming,
in this methodology, other than like these feeds and stuff that you're doing and making
sure that you give them as much water as you can, even though your well is not, not, not working
properly. Like do you just stand there and be stressed? Like you just, cause I'd just be like,
I'd be like, oh, they're with fans or fucking like towel, wet towels and shit.
And you can do things to increase the humidity and reduce the overall stress. It's a little
difficult when you have plants that are like, you know, seven weeks into flower and have large,
you know, very sizable nugs. The, the pucks were well into flower at that point.
But essentially what I did was I, as long as I had water, my water system broke down for a couple
of days. But aside from that, when I had water, I was spraying it essentially in a lake mist
around the, around the entire garden. And so you're, you're trying to offset the heat with
humidity and a mist spray that increases essentially the, you're trying to play the BPD
outdoors, which obviously isn't a thing, but like, you're just trying to increase humidity
as those temperatures go up so that they can cope and be in a more even environment. And
like where my property is and where my garden is, it's on a southwestern facing hillside
in a incredibly hot, dry area. And so creating that little oasis and that humidity bubble right
there was the only way that I could really offset the intensity of the heat. But the plants basically
shut down. Like they're not, they're not doing anything during the day when they're getting,
the leaf surface temperature is getting as high as it was getting.
So what you're doing is just trying to cope. And if I had infrastructure...
That's something I've heard talked about before.
Or sorry, just real quick.
Sorry, if you had infrastructure, I cut you off there.
Yeah, if I had my greenhouses up, which I had to take down,
but if those greenhouses were still up, I would have like, historically I've had woven poly or
I was able to stretch like, what's that stuff? The breathable white cloth. I can't think of
its name off the top of my head, but it's used in like berry agriculture and different things. But
I used to be able to stretch things like that over my greenhouse structure and shade from weather
in different, whether it was too much sunlight and too much heat or
rains coming in, in later season and extend my season that way. I'm no longer able to do that
because my greenhouse is not... They won't let me have my greenhouse anymore.
Assholes. But one thing that I think, I love having you on because one thing that you always
explain is, and that I think is really important and that is critical, is that you make it work.
Like you were explaining when you were talking about your drying period and you're like,
I don't have 18 dehumidifiers and the ability to climate control the space, but I can get there as
close as I can using this methodology and I do the best that I can with it and make it work.
And often people are like, oh, well, I can't have this space and I won't have the temperature
setting for the drying. I'm not going to bother. I'm not going to do it. Or they just let it go
wrong or something go wrong and happen. It's just like, it's okay. It's okay if things aren't perfect
all the time. The stuff I grow in the fall and winter and spring
usually smokes better than the stuff that I harvest and dry in the summer
because I don't have temperature control. I live in a space where it's cold outside so that when
it's cool enough, I have that temperature control because I could pull the air in and there's cold
air to pull in. Where in the summer, I don't have the money to buy another air conditioner with two
kids or the electrical grid when it comes down to throwing another one in there. It'll blow.
So you got to make it work and you got to make it happen sometimes. And I think sometimes it can work
out in your favor and sometimes things can work out really, really good. Like some of these stresses,
I've heard a lot about wind stress and airflow stress being related to actually really high
quality cannabis when it comes to the end flow at a certain time. Maybe not coupled with all of
these other challenges as well. It sounds like it would make things a lot worse. But regardless,
I'm sure you have some fire smoke this year. So let's get into that fire smoke. Let's have a
little chat. Let's have a look at it because we do have some videos here. I'll go up into this
and we will go. First and foremost, what are we looking at? This is the Malawi Chem.
I'm not sure which number, but yeah, it's a Malawi Chem.
Just heavily laid down that top, top, but like they're pretty leaning pretty hard.
Yeah. Yeah. No, they're. So this was what I called the number two. It's a very,
it almost had a sour appearance, huge nugs, kind of weird spiraling. And it's,
it's one that needs to go long, unfortunately. And those heads are just enormous. So it's the
only one out of the entire like five that I grew that showed any mold susceptibility.
All of the others have been mold free, but this plant in particular has shown a
definite susceptibility to mold and a need to just go forever. It's something that needs to
go until about December 1st. When was it shot? This was shot in, I'm not even sure, but it was
the last, it was during a storm or like right before a storm. And so it's a plant that got hit
by that storm and was one of the few that really took damage out of the Malawi Chems. Most of them
have shown an ability to handle the storm damage and the heavy winds and rains haven't really been
a problem for this plant except for this one. And it just has to do with how large it is. Like
it is by far the chunkiest and it's, yeah, it's unfortunate because it's one that looks incredible,
but I just, it's not viable outdoors. Oh my, I love your view. Look at that gorgeous background.
So what is, this is looking a little bit different in shape. So this is number three.
It's all, all of these are Malawi Chem. The number three is the, one of the earlier ripers,
earlier ripers, ripeners. It had the most 3-Chem characteristic. Very heavy. It's just a floppy mess
even with a lot of trellis. And it definitely had characteristics of the 3-Chem. It's very,
very leafy nub structure. And so, yeah, it definitely was something that,
it's one that I like as smoke, but the, the, but the leaf ratio is not all that desirable on it.
So it's, it's not my favorite. The, the number one's definitely my favorite.
What did you see there? Like a two to three bract per leaf? Is that it? Like,
like it's pretty small on that bract to leaf ratio, eh?
Yeah.
Like, eh, it's not really.
No, it's a very, very leafy. And I mean, these are Malawi, this is full land race Malawi cross to
3-Chems. And.
What, what, what type of sachets do you have up there?
I think it's the Thrifx or what Cobra sells as the Thrifx. They're essentially the most affordable
of their predatory mites.
Nice. What, like, what are the aromas that you get when you're standing in this space?
Uh, so these all have a very, uh, menthol dominant terp. Um, it's kind of something
that they're pulling from the Malawi. It's a floral menthol. Then there's varying ranges of
funk, like the number three, that was the most like the three chems actually has some chem to it.
Um, the number one, which I like the most has an incredibly intense ammonia thing to it that I
very much like it's the most like.
Sour, funky ammonia, um, is really how I would describe it. And so I liked that one the most.
Um, the number four, which was probably the most Malawi dominant, and it's very, very menthol-y.
Um, and the number five is also, um, it's one that's also still out there and takes forever.
Um, but it seems to have a good combination of both, except just in very, very long flower time.
That's a thick looking plant. Like that's a thick looking bud.
Like, yeah, I mean like that looks, I'd be happy to harvest that in my fall. I'll tell you what,
uh, they're, they're really, really thick though. Like this is, this, this would be so dead
in Vancouver, BC. It would be, it would be brutalized. Um, but it is looking just freaking happy.
Yeah. Um, the, this one, um, definitely like, as much as I like it, it just is not very viable
outdoors. Um, just because of how long it needs to go. And it was by far the densest and these
nugs were just, you can see there's, um, like that nug that I just had, um, a second ago, they,
like, they had some blockhead sort of colas and those just captured water so much that it, and
the fox tailing as well also kind of captures the water. And so when the rains have come and there's
been really only two major storms that have, you know, produced any rain this year, uh, those two
storms have definitely taken their toll on this one plant. The others have not shown any damage.
So, so is that why the blockhead has its name is because of that really kind of stout top that it
gets? Yeah. Cool. I didn't know that. It's neat. Yeah. Um, I really like I've enjoyed growing
these plants, um, even though it's been kind of stressful and there's been, uh, like growing
plants that go from, I started these, I believe in the second week of February. So
February to December is a long fucking time to be growing plants.
Yeah. Yeah. One plant, one season, like, like full grow out. That's, that's a lot of time spent with
these, with these girls. Right. Yeah. And it just, I don't know. I'm, I'm happy with the results.
It just, there's a lot of, you're a very typical farmer. Like you're a very typical guy. It's like,
Oh, you know what? This is, this is good. And this is really nice. But the only thing I'm
going to talk about is what I want to work on with it and what I, what, how it could be better
and where the faults are. And that's just typical us. We're always trying to, to, to succeed and do
a little bit better or, or have it be a little bit more or searching for that other thing. It's,
it's boring talk about what went right. I like talking about what went wrong. Cause
we've learned from those issues. Yeah, no. And, and kind of somebody just made the point that
it's like, there's so many things that can go wrong. And like, I also, this grow is basically
from July to like now, like at least in its current state, I, my intentions were with this
initially was just to do a backyard, small little seed increase with a bunch of random shit that I
wanted to make seeds with in my backyard. But then we ended up moving. And when we moved back
to where I grew up and where I own property and has grown for years, I took all the things that
I was going to grow in my backyard and planted them in my old grow and really only got to focus
on it from like July onward. And I, yeah, I'm very stoked to be able to have the opportunity
to focus on growing again and to have grown out big plants this year, just as kind of a lark and
seeing what I could do. Whereas next year I have the opportunity to actually prepare
and, you know, grow out my 12 plants in a much more,
much more thoughtful manner than just kind of the random stuff that I was going to make seeds with.
Yeah. I mean, that's, that's always fun. So you were, you were going to seed this stuff out.
Yeah. You decided, you decided to run it out of sensimilla crop instead.
Yeah.
There's nothing wrong with that, man. Looks like you got enough flower to smoke for the year
off of like maybe two of those plants. I don't know. I imagine being chronic like, like myself,
it might not last that long. I like, I harvested my one big outdoor plant. I'm like, oh, this is
going to make it to like Christmas. And I like, I just pressed the last of it into rosin. And I'm
just like, it's going to be done by the end of next week. But you know, fire is fire. So you
got to consume it while it's fire. One thing that was kind of noticed that I saw in the chat there,
and we were talking a little bit about the dry and cure process earlier is, is what's your thought?
Because like some plants are good fresh and some plants really need a hard cure out. Have you seen
any specific lines or cultivars or breeders that tend to have plants that need that long cure out
time? Like we mentioned, like terpenellin dominant, it seems like they fade a lot faster.
But you know, have you seen the opposite, like that need for that long drawn out cure?
Yeah. Well, it's funny. Mr. Bob hit me up on the, Mr. Bob hit me up and mentioned about the
Pacific Northwest hash plant puck that it needs extra time. And I found that,
or at least curing said leave it in the jar extra long for the cure. And so I've noticed that
some of the early, like one of the pucks that I had, it's got the burnt orange terp.
I also noticed this in the stash plant from Duke Diamond. And there's a certain burnt orange terp
in the puck and puck crosses. I'm not particularly fond of that one. I'm going to see if it mellows
out and isn't so like orange rind. Cause it's almost as if like it's, it's got like this
orange terp that's kind of like a burnt orange rind. And I noticed that earlier on the terp was
more pleasant and later on it got more of that funky, like burnt sort of nose to it. And I'm
going to see if it mellows out in the jar or if that's one that just is better harvested earlier.
Cool. I think also I, the Malawi chem also definitely benefits from a longer cure from
what I've seen. Cool. I had some blueberry one time that was like a year and a half old and it
blew my mind how good it tastes. Like it was so good in blueberry. I was just dumbfounded by it.
And that was like kind of one of those first moments where it's like, Oh, well maybe,
you know, there's, there's some, there's, there's some degree of variation here that some, some like
shorter, some like longer. But yeah, that's, that's one thing that that's the one that,
that kind of got me going. And then I do hear, let's bring up the next video here.
And the next one. And so what are we looking at now? Are we still in the pucks or?
Oh, these are all just Malawi chems. That's all that was left at this point.
Okay. All that was going here. So this is a different number then?
Yeah. I think this is the other side of the two. And there's also, I noticed somebody had asked
about the Malawi Wilson's and so the Malawi Wilson, it, I really enjoy it. I'm smoking some
right now. I've smoked the Malawi chem and the Malawi Wilson since we've been on. And
the Malawi Wilson, particularly what I was calling the number four, it was the,
it was the most frosty of all of the, like, it looked like modern hybrid cannabis wrote like
much more so than everything else there wasn't and really acted much more like a
early flowering. I think it was ready by like October 10th. And so maybe 15th, it was definitely
something that was faster flowering, really producing nice nugs. I like that one a lot.
It's got good turps. And so I definitely grow out the Malawi Wilson again, if I had more packs of
it. It's something that at least for me produced both interesting, like longer season, there was
a one of the cultivars or the number one was definitely much, much longer. And it was an
enormous plant. All of them. One thing I noticed with all of the Malawi's is they are just
incredibly vigorous and able to eat. They consume a ton of food and are able to do so better than
pretty much anything else. They are enormous plants and able to just keep on packing on growth.
And so, yeah, I dig all of them. They're, they're just, they're just so good.
Yeah, I dig all of them. They're, they're definitely not an easy thing to grow out,
taking as long as they do, but it's been fun.
No, that's, that's, that's, I love seeing your garden because they,
like I've mentioned a dozen times before, is it's just stuff I don't get to,
get to see and get to, get to produce as much out here unless I do it indoor. And then you have a
very different plant, right? You don't have these big, beautiful, tall plants with these massive
expressions and especially in my indoor, I have a short space. So it's like, there's very,
there's a limit to what I'm capable of producing forward and putting, putting things forward on
these plants. But like having to look through these, it's very, very cool and very, very fun.
So you mentioned that you've harvested a few, have you tried washing them or, or, or pressing any of
them to see if there's a return, a return on any of them? I, I, I know you're a flower smoker. I
know that's kind of like, I always see you with the big, big, huge doobies. So my, my imagining is
probably not, but I figure I might as well ask that.
So the, definitely the Malawi Wilsons are not washers. And it's funny, I joked with Mace about
it and he said, yeah, they've got those lotion heads. And so it's definitely a greasier, oilier
sort of head. It's not something that washes particularly well. The pucks, a lot of the pucks
have been frozen. And yeah, that's really the majority of what got frozen. Some of the Malawi
got frozen, but it's not, it's not really a washing cultivar. Malawi's, from what I know,
are not something that necessarily produces a good wash.
No, but the effect on these is quite, quite uplifting, isn't it? Typically, right? Like
you get a lot more of that upper, uplifting effect. I, I don't know. I, I, I, I hear that
everybody gets affected differently and that these, these things are unique and special in their own
way. And, you know, so was other than that mint profile that you were mentioning earlier, what was,
was there a specific plant out of the whole assortium that really like, maybe your outlier,
maybe your weird plant, maybe your unique plant. And if anybody has any questions pertaining to the,
to the episode, I would love you to pop them in now. I've saved a couple. There has been a couple
questions asked from other people in the area as well, but try and put a question at the end or
even write question at the start of your thing. And that way I'll make sure to get it. Cause there
is a few people in chat talking right now and I don't want to miss your question if you asked it.
But yeah, so it's awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome plant. So what were, what, let me reword
the question. What were the outlier, were there any individual, unique or special ones that you'd
be like, this, this one in particular is, is, is something that I'm really excited to explore
maybe a little bit more next year, or would be like, Hey, I have to buy another pack of this.
You mentioned that you really liked this Malawi and Wilson cross, but but you don't have any more
packs of it. Would you buy more? Is it that good? You know, like what, what, what, what would be
like, I got to buy a dozen packs of this. Yeah, I'd go back and get, I mean, Mace gave me those
because I had given him the Malawi that he used to make the cross with, but and I'm sure he would
give me more. But I would also, I'd pay whatever he's charging. He's, his genetics are usually
reasonably priced. And so I definitely consider buying more of those. I'd also, if the Pacific
Northwest hash plant puck was available, I'd also grow that out again. That's definitely something
that is worth growing. And then what else? The mango tie. I don't know if I'd grow out the mango
tie again. It's wild. It definitely, you know, it's a commitment to grow a plant for over a year.
Even in my environment, like we've had a hard freeze, so it's gone through a hard freeze this
year. Then, but I very much am interested in different landrace varieties and will grow them
out regardless of whether or not they're, you know, a viable thing in my environment. I'll still
try and grow them out, make some seeds with them. And like I did with the Malawi, because I had
grown out Bodie's Malawi back in 2016 and made an increase, just a pure Malawi increase with all the
females. And then also did a number of hybrids, including this three chems. And I've found that
it's, I enjoyed growing them. I think that there's definitely good cultivars or phenos in here,
genos or whatever people want to call them. In terms of an outlier, I thought the number one.
Strands, they're great strands, right?
Strand of areoles.
Yeah.
Strand of areoles. Oh, I like that. Strand of areoles.
But yeah, so I thought the number one was my favorite, or is my favorite out of all of them so
far. And of the Malawi chems, the Malawi Wilson number four was my favorite. Then out of the
pucks, interestingly, it was the runt out of the bunch that I thought was the best.
And it's got an interesting sort of like weird cherry thing. It's definitely an outlier in the
bunch. And then, yeah, that's all.
What do you mean by a weird cherry? Because I love these descriptors because I find you can
find some of the most fun and unique descriptors for flavor profiles of cannabis. Like the
Chernobyl Subcooled Dank that I ran, it had this Sprite mixed with Jim Shue. And we always go like
these funks and these weirdnesses. Was there a specific degree of weirdness to this cherry?
Like you said, it was special. But is there like, reminds you of an old girlfriend's pits?
It's like chalky and medicinal. So it's got like cherry with a chalky medicinal thing to it,
almost like fucking children's vitamins, sort of weird.
Like almost if you only had the cherry Flintstone vitamins.
Yeah.
That chalky smell of that Flintstone-y vitamin. Okay.
Yeah. So that one was definitely my favorite, just in terms of its overall like terp profile.
The others are kind of, you know, they're, I don't like the burnt orange one. I think if I
had harvested it earlier, it maybe it smelled a little bit brighter and fruitier and less like a
more bright orange as opposed to like orange rind. So yeah, I think it either an earlier
harvest or a longer cure on that might even out the terp. But if it doesn't, then that's definitely
not the one I'm looking for. But that was one out of the five. The other two were just very mellow,
very hash planty, very earthy, very hashy, very musky, funky, like classic 90s weed,
basically like shit that I remember when I was growing up.
We get the weirdest people in our fucking chats, man. Like it's like the weirdest shit sometimes.
Anyways, I'm getting like distracted in there. I love you, Garnet. I can't wait. I'm gonna come by
in the summer of next year and bug you. You know, we'll get our kids to, we'll race our children.
We'll get them racing each other. And then we'll smoke a ton of ganja and enjoy some fun things.
You know, we're not racing the children.
The wrestling children. You got girls or boys?
Both. One of each.
Awesome. So let's do some of the questions before we round out our day. I didn't see any new ones
come in. You know, if the troll's bugging you, block them. And if it continues to be an issue
or gets rude, I'll get rid of them myself. Jane, dear USA, big fan, big fan. Would you ask Trevor
what he prefers, outdoor or indoor smoke? Outdoor.
I was like, really? That's an interesting question.
It's like, yeah, it's...
What, why, why is outdoor less expensive when you have like, because I've seen and smoked some
outdoor fire from like true, true growers of the plant that have grown outdoor and it's better than
some indoor, than a lot indoor. It's better than most indoor. And even some of these light
depths are getting pretty good. So like, what's your thoughts on that? Like, is it the lack of
sun and the proper environment that creates a lack of ability to create the depths of profile
necessary to grow great herb? Or what exactly makes outdoor special to you?
I think it's really hard to replicate nature. And I think that outdoors, like,
obviously there's all sorts of environmental variables and difficulties that arise in it,
like in a single growing season, particularly when you can't control shade. So that said,
it's really, really hard to replicate nature. And if people live in good growing environments,
Northern California is a very good growing environment. So I'm like incredibly lucky and
able to do what I do because of where I live. I prefer outdoors, what I grew up with. I also grew
up off the grid, like, basically. We had a pretty good background deep dig into that on the last
episode of your, because you're like, you're like born into the culture. It's a little bit different
of a level for you. Yeah. And it just made it so like, outdoor was just what I grew up with. It's
kind of what I know. I didn't like a lot of indoor that I tried initially, but most of the
indoor I tried initially was like commercially grown, so to speak, or, you know, it was general
hydro or whatever the store-bought nutrients were. And yeah, so I'm not a huge fan of indoor,
but I've smoked really good indoor from good growers over the years and understand why people
kind of gravitate towards that. I understand why the market gravitates towards indoor.
It's aesthetically pleasing, even if it's substance-less. So like, even if you have a
nug that doesn't have any flavor, it will look good. And at least in most, like in California,
you're not really able to like open and mess with the packaging. So here's buying things on THC
percentage and visual aesthetic usually. And so that's kind of determined the market.
One thing that definitely like differentiated price years and years and years ago here
was the determination by people like Steve D'Angelo and Arborside to pay based off of
what was perceived to be the cost of production per unit, indoor costing more to produce per unit
because of power and electricity costs versus outdoor. And that differentiated how much they
were paying for pounds back in like 2007, 2008. So nice to the farmer, not nice to the industry.
Well, yeah. And totally creating a skew towards producing indoor. And it also created the, like,
you know, the joke of everybody, like it's trickled down into other areas. But that was
the first thing where you'd go into Arborside and claim your outdoor was indoor and then sell
your outdoor as ins. Like that became a meme. And a rap song.
That was a thing was because they created that tiered structure for payment. And that's persisted
to today. It's definitely influenced the market and how outdoors perceived in the retail space.
All right. So, Trevor, what causes different seed colors? One stream produced white seeds with
all the markings. And I've seen strains that produce really, really super like dark purple
seeds, huge seeds, little seeds. Like is there is it like a just cultivar specific or is it like
what's your what's your opinion? Yeah, it seems to be like it's genetically controlled, at least
to a certain degree. Obviously, there are environmental factors like premature seeds
will be white, things like that. But. Skunkman Sam, David Watson, he is somebody who actually
he's done breeding specifically for seeds. A lot of the hemp breeding has also been for seed oil
content and seed size for like those types of cultivars. So that has been like seed traits
are specifically genetically controlled. There seems to be some a number of different seed
characteristics that are associated with domestication and breeding and others that
are associated with wild and sort of feral conditions. A lot of that has to do with seed size,
seed shattering and germination. You'll get a differential germination rate amongst more
feral and wild varieties. You'll get a much more uniform germination rate amongst
cultivated varieties. Shattering is much like the dispersal. That's a wild characteristic,
whereas the nested seeds that are much harder to dislodge from the bracts is a cultivated
characteristic. The different thing it's called the xanthum or something like the actual shell
coating and the tiger striping and different characteristics like that are also associated with
cultivation. So it's it's genetic and it's also like how it's how it's maintained. If it's
maintained in cultivation, there are characteristics that are specific to seeds that
are associated with that cultural complex as opposed to a feral condition, which is what
you'll see in like ditchweed in the Midwest or there's some up in Canada. There's some everywhere
that it's ever been grown, basically. It's everywhere all over the world. It's like one
of those traveling plants that travel with humans. There's a weed out here that was originally a
European weed. It's really, really common. The indigenous peoples called it white man's foot
because everywhere that we would go, it would follow us around. I believe it's
plantain or something. It's a really, really, really weirdly common plant.
Anytime you grow something on outdoor on mass, especially if you allow it to seed out,
there's a probability that it'll escape and it might naturalize at some point.
While a lot of doctors are like, there's no more land races or any of these things left,
I wonder, could there be just some valley in the middle of nowhere with some very unique,
highly adapted strain of cannabis that is out there that we're just not even aware of?
It's possible, but we've also seen a lot of international genetics and seeds from all over
the world get dispersed into places where these were most likely to be available.
I wonder what happens with the pool. There's just so much variety and uniqueness in these plants.
There's so much to draw out of it. One thing Lugo Mez asked is, what's the difference in
cannabinoid profile between seeded flower and not? Is there any scientific data that you have found
on this? I have, for one, found great differences in seeded flower and non-seeded flower terpene
and cannabinoid, well terpene profile, but I haven't done any actual research other than just
tasting it. What's your thoughts? Yeah. I don't know of any actual scientific data on measuring
that distinction. It's generally assumed and accepted that there's a lower THC and cannabinoid
rate or terpene rate in seeded weed, just because the amount of energy going into seed production
kind of trades off with that of cannabinoid production and secondary metabolites. So
that may or may not actually be true. I haven't actually ever seen any published data on it. It's
kind of an accepted bro science thing or community thing where that's what people believe. I could
look. Hillig may have some. There were some people who were doing research back in the 70s, 80s,
and 90s that was very specific to some of these questions and they may actually have some data on
it. But yeah, and also the, so a landrace, there are multiple different definitions of a landrace,
but one definition of a landrace would be that it's maintained in cultivation by a,
in a particular place. So it's a cultivated variety. It's not necessarily a wild or feral
type of thing. So for instance, the ditch weed that we have throughout the Midwest here in the
United States is largely feral escapes from cultivation that are a combination. They're
primarily hemp from back during the time that we were cultivating hemp, you know, prior to
prohibition. However, there has been integration of drug variety genes into the population in some
of these. It's not very much, but there's been a little bit of integration. And I know just for
one instance, like a dude that I talked to on Instagram, he's got some on his property that like
his aunts and uncles sort of showed him when he was a kid. And apparently they had taken their,
like whatever they were smoking and they had planted it out there and let it seed together.
And so, and they had done that over a couple of years and he had shown me pictures of it. And
they were pretty resinous plants. They weren't like, oh my God, here's some like, you know,
modern hybrid, but they were very resinous for something that's feral ditch weed. And so that
type of integration has happened, but that is essentially a feral variety or a wild variety,
as opposed to a cultivated variety. And most land races are cultivated varieties. And so
there's a culture and a people connected to that variety and they maintain and grow and, you know,
keep it going. In certain places, there's certainly land races that are available and out
there. And there are people who are doing great work to try and collect and preserve and maintain
that because essentially for the last, you know, 50 years, since the 1970s in particular,
there's been a pretty concerted effort to just eradicate all of that from the world. It's
literally been international policy. Yeah. Just weirdnesses. The weird things we do as people,
and as uneducated human beings, we make a lot of poor decisions on things that we think we know,
but we don't, you know. Mind you, there's a whole, we won't get into the politics behind cannabis
today. We don't have any, we don't have a long enough episode for that one. That's for sure.
So what are you looking forward with? I know last year was a bit of a freaking gong show for you at
the Emerald Harvest Ball. That's coming up this year. Are you going to try and make another splash?
Maybe, maybe, maybe not, hopefully not throwing cuffs, but you know, definitely piss some people
off, which we love. Because we do, like, there is, we have a certain responsibility as cannabis people
in any way, shape or form to have some advocacy and have a little bit of civil disobedience,
because still the restrictions we have are ridiculous. We still don't have consumption
spaces here in Canada. We're not allowed to consume in groups. That's fucking fucked up.
Like, that's wrong. Like, we need to be allowed to consume in groups, just like every other
community is allowed to consume in groups. So there's, we're finding loopholes and stuff in
ways around it, but you need to have some civil disobedience. So showing up as a medical patient
with a whole bunch of jars, I think is exactly the type of civil disobedience that's necessary
to create change. It's not, you're not doing harm to anybody. You're not hurting anyone.
You're just being a farmer, showing what you're proud of. And if there's anything on earth that's
civilly wrong about that, no. But if it's civil disobedient, I absolutely invite it into my life.
So what's happening for you this year? Are you going to try and wreck up the place? Are you
going to come down with a big group? What's up? I mean, I would love to be there, but
it was an interesting occasion for you last year.
Yeah. So I'm going to be going again. I,
through an intermediary, Tim reached out and asked me to send him my contact. Tim being Tim
Blake of the Emerald Cup. He reached out and asked me to send my contact information and of those
who are with me to get complimentary tickets this year in light of what happened last year.
So I didn't know that and fucking good job, Tim. Right?
Yeah. No, Tim's cool. I mean, I talked to Tim shortly after it all happened. And yeah, he
was as mad as all the rest of us and was very sympathetic and wanted to make it right,
however it could be made right. And it was, yeah. So I intend to go. I think everybody else who was
there with me will be heading there as well. And shout out to everybody who was there. You know,
Miss Sonic, Bam, Adam at the ranch. Yeah. Kaya, Pacific Northwest Roots. Different folks. You
know, the whole crew was there. So they reached out and asked us to, yeah, get in touch to get
tickets. So hopefully we'll all be there again doing the same thing.
I wish you'd be there. So I'm sure, I mean, Peter, oh, there he is. I was just going to bug you,
Peter. I was like, going to be Peter. Are we going to be at the, is Future Cannabis set up
this year? Are we setting up again like we did last year? Let's see what he says here. See if
he comes back with, because that's always fun. I love, Peter's been doing that for a bit and I did
the background hosting of that last year. And next year, I hope maybe I'll get to go be there
on location for the next one, which would be pretty wild. But we're coming up to the roundabout
of the hour and a half time that we have. So before we go, where can people find support and
support you in your community, right? You have seeds, you have Instagrams, you have the stuff
and the things. So tell me how we as a community can support you for coming on and supporting us
by giving away all this awesome information. Yeah, I'm on Instagram, sungrown mids.
I've written for the Beard Bros and for Skunk Magazine. Definitely check them out, support them.
I'm going to be getting back into writing again now that I've kind of like settled out my move.
And so that should be good. And I will also, or yeah, you can find two buck chucks, I believe,
or two bucks on Future Cannabis or Daga, whatever the Peter's website is.
Daga.garden is in the description. And two bucks, there's a reason for the name,
it's because it's two bucks a bean in that. That's part of the joke. Yeah. It's also
another friend of mine. He doesn't really do much social media, but he is on IG. He's a
calaveras grower. And I also, I have another friend who makes beans with me, Landhammer Farms.
And so we just kind of, it's different collaborations I make with my friends where
we all have the same genetics or have access to similar genetics and we'll make different crosses.
And so that's what those are. And yeah, they're all two bucks a bean. So it's a lot of silly,
stupid jokes, honestly. But like- The ultimate joke pack. There's like 18 sly inside jokes.
Yeah. I love it. And from what we hear from the community, the beans are killer. So definitely
go over support that. Definitely go check out his page and definitely come back here next week for
another episode of Cannabis for Breakfast. Thank you, Trevor. Thank you for having me on London.
Thanks everyone for the chat and everything. Now be back next week. I have a special guest coming,
who is Jorge Cervantes. He will be back again on Future Cannabis Project for the second time. We
don't have the Dank Hour panel tonight, so y'all can take a break. I'm going to go to a tasting in
a moment. I'm excited to go taste some rosins and stuff. So check out my Instagram if you want more
information on that. Other than that, make sure to check out Dagadot Garden and check out Boveda
and Wildfire Class Production as they help make this content happen. Thank you very much,
every one of you, and happy growing.
