If you don't have a name for all those microbes, how messy it would be.
How messy it would be to order coffee from Java if you don't have the exact word that
defines that exact profile terpene that you want, or cigar, or wine, or cheese, or anything
that is a bad taste, that is degustative, you need a vocabulary to distinguish, and
with cannabis even more so because there is so much diversity to it.
Just like grapes, you know, there are how many different kinds of...
There's a dozen of cultivars.
Now there is thousands and thousands and thousands of cannabis cultivars.
That's what complicates it a little bit.
The basic terroir story is simple.
We don't even have to prove that we have a cannabis terroir, it's proven.
Now it's when you add the diversity of cannabis to the...
Diversity of the food web.
To what represents a terroir, it brings it to another dimension.
You deal with cannabis anyway.
It's going to be bigger than anything.
Already it's going to be bigger.
It's not a limitation per se, it's just a much bigger territory to create a lot of different
terpene profiles.
You know what I mean?
So it's like we should more stick to the basic.
It's like an appellation d'origine, it's something dedicated to create quality only.
That's it.
The name of the game is that.
So we should stick to all the standards that create quality, starting...
I never really thought about it, but the microbe in your soil, I guess, that would be the number
one stage.
You know what I mean?
Knowing your soil, what the plant takes from your soil and what defines that specific characteristic
of the place where it grows, the taste of that specific place.
That's the value of small farming.
And terroir definitely is the precise mix of the nutrients that are being taken up by
the plant and how the plant is dispersing that in its body.
And that's what gives that unique flavor to different cultivars.
It is a microbe, actually.
But not just the cannabis.
For everything.
It's like they were a big...
Because in France you have terroir, the land, the climate, the cultivar, and the farmer,
the community that creates that quality.
But you have also the terroir testing the terroir.
And in that case, it has always been a big debate because it's never been proven that
the grape actually captures the characteristic of the place.
Now with the study on microbes, they realize that it's actually the microbial life that
changes from that specific piece of land to that other side of the track.
And this is what brings those different characteristics to the...
It's not the plant.
It's the life in the soil that does everything.
So I would like you to introduce yourself.
There's communities in the soil, right?
And how are the communities in the soil translating into communities above ground?
With the cannabis, because it uses its terpene to rule everything above ground, then the
specificity of the climate, the insect life, is going to bring certain aspects of a profile
that you're not going to get on the other side of the valley or in any other places
in the world.
So it's like you have that...
As much as you get the terpene from all that nutrient that the plant absorbs, those terpenes
and the plant mix them up depending on that above ground necessity, basically.
So I want to see if this metaphor holds up.
All of these little puzzle pieces is like a pixelated picture that by themselves, they're
part of it, but only all working together, do you see what's really going on?
Yeah, I think that's a good metaphor.
And certainly in the world of science, being very reductionistic, they want to take each
little pixel and study that very, very finely.
And they get lost in that reductionism.
They forget that they've got to put all the pieces in the puzzle back together to see
that overall pattern.
And then you realize that this is just one tiny little pixel in a broader picture.
A much bigger picture that is bigger and bigger and bigger.
What about the communities for people?
How is the clay, the communities in the soil going to affect the communities as people?
Well, that's a great question.
Direct feedback by nutrients.
No, hold on.
Getting in food.
Who's helped the most?
Which communities around the world, not just here in America, when you take into account
the soil food web?
It's, well, what can we influence?
Which group of people, communities?
Which cultures are most receptive to learning just how to do it the natural way?
Yeah, it's the poorest countries in the world are where the biggest effect can occur most
rapidly.
Right.
Because you've got to send somebody there to get them to understand.
The simple measures, whereas in industrialized nations, we've got to have big equipment.
We've got, you know, a thousand acre farms or 10,000 hectare farms or something like
that.
And it's hard to change those systems.
And monoculture is not good for the planet.
They just don't get it.
You can do big space, but you have to cut down that big space into chunk.
And especially in nature, chunks that cannot produce the same product because insect life,
the whole life web of the planet is made of diversity.
And we're fucking scared of diversity.
It's like you want to create GMO tomato to make a tomato resist a rich place.
The tomato was bloody born in a desert.
OK.
And you don't have on the planet some genetics that could do exactly and better whatever
you want to do.
It's like it's crazy.
So it's like it's that fear of diversity and wanting to corner that specific aspect of
whatever because we fancy it better.
The reason why we do GMO in the conventional world is because we want everything to become
ripe on exactly the same day.
Is that the most important thing about your food is that it became that it was all pickable
at the same time on the same day?
It's the wrong thing to be emphasizing.
I mean, they don't really have the choice.
You need to create plants that can work, that can grow on poison if you want to grow a plant
or you have to clean the soil to be able to grow an healthy plant.
There is only two choice.
And I mean, I don't know.
It sounds very simple when you clarify the simple question.
Ready?
Because we're taking it.
I love this.
You say there's only two choices.
Yeah.
Working 100 percent with a healthy ecosystem, which takes care of the plant for you or growing
it in poison.
I mean, that's where we start.
Is that where you feel to?
I mean, the industrial version where you have to grow it in poison to control every single
little process.
Micro manage it to death.
Yeah, to death.
And the fact is, if we get the proper biology in the soil, we can achieve the same end,
which is to get everything becoming ripe on the same day and harvest it just the way the
chemical companies want to be able to manage all of their growth.
We can do the same thing, but you have to understand all the bits and pieces in that
picture puzzle.
Then you get the picture.
Yeah.
Agriculture here, it's flabbergasting for an European to tell you the truth, because
we have a connection with our farmer.
Our farmers are small.
My mom, she never bought in her life anything but at the farmer down the street every other
day of her life.
And my grandma the same.
Those farmers during World War II, not only they were growing food for France, but they
were risking their life to bring that in the city.
They have a lot of power, the farmers.
They're protected like national treasure.
There is nothing that come in a country that can compete with the quality and the price
that are owed by the French government and the farmer.
Because if they go on strike, there is nothing that move in France ever until you give it
to them.
So it's like that power, that relation with people, you don't have it here.
There is like, there is respect for farming.
There is a better understanding that your carrot is actually growing in soil.
You know what I mean?
Because people have no relation with that part of the food chain.
Because here it's not food, it's business.
You know what I mean?
It's like food, it's not something super important.
Sharing food in Europe, sharing water around the Mediterranean Sea, it's the greatest hospitality
gesture that you can give.
It's like food is everything.
And now we just see it as a...
We throw it away.
A necessity.
There is nothing behind, but it's business.
It's a commodity.
Well, a commodity, exactly.
The word I was...
And it's much more than that.
It's like our health is dependent, you are what you eat.
And we're eating poison.
And they want to make it worse by creating GMO monster when you can just clean the place.
And it's like you say, it's not that difficult to clean the place.
You just need to dedicate...
There is so much organic matter that we can take care of.
That they clean the place.
We just...
We are stewards.
We are responsible because there is a huge responsibility behind being in a cannabis
industry.
We are supposed to save the planet.
And then you go in Colorado, they extract only CBD from plant and they throw the hemp
stock and they let it rot in a...
You don't even do paper with it.
It's like seriously.
CBD is a by-product.
It's the icing on the cake.
That plant has been breathed for tens of thousands of years to make fiber and seeds and that
you just throw away.
What's wrong with this?
It's like the money people, they don't see what you can do with hemp fiber.
It's like it's not only you can change the face of the planet, but the guy who's going
to put a hemp biodegradable plastic bag on the table, he's going to eat it seriously.
You want a jackpot?
You want money?
Do this bag.
Do this throat.
Do everything that is made of petrol.
Give us some bricks that are fireproof.
We really need it in California.
There is so much to do with it and at the same time you clean the ground and it's like
the ultimate power that gives us the ability to go into the 21st century and find really
a source of energy that doesn't compromise life on earth.
Many traditional cultures that I've experienced around the world, the farmer is at the same
cultural level in the community as the best hunter or the best fisherman because it's
really about meeting the community's needs and the farmer is the one.
When the animals aren't there, plants are really hard to run away from.
We have managed to denigrate the role of the farmer.
Most people think of farmers as being stupid and not really knowing, but part of it is
that instead of them managing their own land and them managing the plant and getting the
best, they just call up a fertilizer agent and that fertilizer person tells them what
to do.
You need to go out and put out three tons of lime and half a ton of gypsum on your land
and then a week later what am I supposed to do from the farmer?
Well, you're supposed to go out and put on ammonium nitrate or you put out urea and the
next week it's something else, something else and that farmer has released the responsibility.
They are just slaves if you will.
They're serfs to the chemical companies.
Or being told what to do by someone else.
They're not thinking, they're not participating in this, they're just the worker.
And we've got to have farmers that actually understand and know what they're doing.
Small farms are much better for having people really know what's going on in their soil,
what's going on with their plants.
You have a thousand hectares, you have a thousand acres, how can you keep track of everything?
So I really like the European model much better where the farms are smaller.
Also, when I look at the space you have here, it's really hard to think small farming.
I mean, you know what I mean?
There's so much room here.
But at the same point what I don't understand is monoculture.
When I learned that you have to move your bee from A to Z to B to C all over the country
to be able to have pollination, this is scary to death.
I mean, if you're a farmer and you don't have bees, you don't have pollination, it's like,
oh man, it's like you're not flipping out.
I told you, shoes.
No pollination, no seeds.
No seeds, no.
So it's like we're really reaching a point of no return here.
That's a scary thing.
As the world power, economic power that stands behind cannabis has to be used to change that.
So it's like for us, it's not like I'm cool, I don't want to make money, I'm just a dude,
la la la, I give away and stuff.
Yeah, it's nice.
Take care of people, but fucking make money.
Because if we have money, it's a tool.
You have money, you can do stuff.
The more money you have, the bigger the stuff you can do.
Well, there is so much stuff to do that it would be cool that people with a certain level
of consciousness have the bread to make it happen.
And take care of their community.
Yeah, because it's, you know, to define a terroir, there is six science.
One is the science of soil, which is two science at the same time.
And the other is all the community.
It's beyond the actual farmer.
It's more that the community of the region and the agronomy that change that specific
place and stuff.
So I just heard him say that there's the soil community and then there's the rest of the
community.
Because it's all community.
And now what we're doing is even bridging the gap between the soil community and the
rest of the community.
No, I think it's not community, it's soil awareness that we had.
But it's something that our ancestors knew that.
I mean, it's like our grandparents, they knew how to keep the soil fertile doing not that
much and producing a lot.
So it's like it's now we have the science to show what our valid tradition are, basically.
And this is important because you need this to validate anything in the 21st century,
basically.
Otherwise, it's just like bullshit of old people, crazy hippie, all that type of stuff.
And now when you can put the number and show that, yes, you're doing this, you produce
such a ripple in the life web, and that's why you shouldn't do it.
When it's only vocal, oral knowledge that is passed down, it's something that you have
to be into it to believe.
You can tell everybody here that has been using bullshit pushed by companies, look,
it's simple.
You're making a mistake because this is this and this, and it's not refutable.
It's like you fast-facts, that's the beauty of it.
It's like now tradition has the weight that science brings with it.
For me, ash and everything that is happening, it's the same.
I need that science to be able to prove what I experience with a plant and a resin all
my life.
Nobody thinks of microbes and the life web of the soil when everything is coming from
that.
Except for people who've been studying it for 40 years.
I'd like to interject something.
I like to keep things simple, three words or less.
I came up with something that I refer to as symbiosis to synapse.
I think that's a very good way of relating that.
Because your brain synapse and then the symbiosis.
I think that's really a good expression.
I could be wrong, but I like to keep things very simple for people.
It's a good visual too.
A good visual, yes.
Right?
And a lot of...
World of smoozies.
We love you, Benji.
It's a good visual.
We love you, Benji.
Is there a term that if you could simplify it even more that you would say kind of embodies
what you've spent so much time...
I'm a scientist.
I get down to the...
Quantify.
Yeah.
I work at fairly small scales and then build the layers up and look at each layer.
We often talk about breadth of knowledge.
Well, we need depth of knowledge as well.
Kind of like our roots?
Yeah.
Somewhat similar.
So here's the question.
How roots...
Will the roots grow?
How deep will the roots grow?
How deep will the roots go?
It depends.
Standard ecological answer.
It depends on the conditions.
Most plants can be put in their root systems down 15, 20, 25, 100.
You know, you get to certain...
Inches?
Feet.
Feet.
Feet.
So why is my plant growing in a pot this small?
Yeah.
Why do we restrict our plants?
A small tree in a pot.
That's a good question.
Even a smart pot.
But it still makes lots of roots.
There is no pot.
There is no smart pot.
It's a nice...
It's a nice brand name but...
And go round and round and round and they girdle themselves and they kill themselves.
You've seen how the main roots destroy the bottom and go straight down.
Isn't it a clue that you don't choose...
You don't confide?
Hello?
And when we go out with big equipment, when we compact the soil, when we don't have plant
material on the surface of the soil, then rain...
Rain.
It will hit that surface and cause compaction at some depth.
Which means your roots going down can't get through that.
They're going to go sideways and they're going to fight with their neighbor.
They're going to fight with things around.
None of your plants are going to be healthy.
So instead of them thriving as a community, this is a metaphor too, they're fighting for
survival.
Yep.
It's warfare.
Instead of supporting each other.
And they can fight hard.
If we don't have a fight, well let's not fight with each other.
They've got their weapon.
Because nature really selects more towards symbiosis, working together.
Especially with plants in the soil, they should have mycorrhizal fungi that they're sharing.
And therefore every plant in this whole thousand acres should be connected equally as healthy
Because they're connected below ground, this is really one plant.
The aspen tree is a literal example that a lot of people know.
Because when an aspen tree turns, a whole hillside will turn.
Because it's really one tree with lots of branches that come up out of the ground.
Yeah, lots of runners.
Right.
Where in our situation, we know that it's not just one tree.
It's one community.
And we want the whole thing to be healthy.
We want everything connected below ground because then everything's healthy.
If any one of those plants is healthy, then all will be.
In that chain, if there is anyone that cannot feed the other, you're in trouble.
Yep.
That's it, it's finished.
We're in trouble.
It doesn't work anymore.
It's pretty violent.
It's a predator eating each other, literally.
Until there is the goodness that the plant is taking from it.
At the microbial level, it's warfare.
It's really like the plant is the farmer.
The plant is putting out the exudates to grow this system to protect itself.
Both above ground and below ground.
The plant is in control of all of this.
And since World War I, human beings have started to forget about that.
Not pay attention to it.
The plant is stupid.
We have to supply it with all of its nutrients.
It can't fend for itself.
You have to feed it.
Whereas if you would just stop and let the right biology come back,
the plant is perfectly capable of growing itself.
Of getting the nutrients that it requires and protecting itself.
Without us adding truckloads of amendment that it doesn't need.
Right.
Toxic chemicals.
We're killing ourselves.
When they eat it all, they're going to eat it all.
It's a predator eating each other.
It's a predator eating each other.
We're killing ourselves.
When I learned that your whole NPK,
the whole industry of feeding plants is based on the three elements that you find once you burn the plant.
So you figure it out.
The way, the whole alimentation of a living organism,
by burning that living organism and checking what is left from it.
How would you figure out the alimentation of a human being by burning and getting the data from the ashes?
It doesn't even make sense in the first place.
It's scary.
And everybody follows it.
And the people bullshit you with a level of non-logical approach to it that is really scary.
And nobody asks questions.
It's all good.
They're living through chemistry.
Like we're just chemicals or something.
That's all we are.
We have a huge number of emergent properties that you cannot predict just on the basis of the chemistry in your body,
the mineral elements.
You can't predict human behavior from that point of view.
So why do we keep trying to do that?
Because it's...
And it's used as an excuse to sell people something they don't need.
They put themselves into that trap by listening...
They get to need it after because they have no choice but...
Because they've destroyed the system that's supposed to be there.
There is a point because they're in an addictive relationship where they have to go back just to get...
You do it one time, that's it.
Just that one time.
You kill your microbes and they're dead.
They're not there to do the job that the plant is expecting them to do.
So now the plant is not getting the nutrition.
It's not getting what it needs.
So we think that we have to come along and we have to provide it.
If you kill the organisms, then you're going to have to do their job.
And we are horrific.
That's expensive.
We are really bad at doing the job that these microorganisms should be doing.
And they love to do it.
Yeah.
Yeah, they're really cool.
It's like human beings living in houses and stuff.
Human beings want to live there.
We want to grow.
We want to have families.
Well, so do the organisms in the soil.
That's just their house.
Yeah.
Why do we keep destroying them when they're only trying to do what they're supposed to do?
Because somebody wants to sell you something that you don't need.
Yeah.
Doctor, is there any evidence in using crystals or rocks with plant or living organisms in Earth to, you know?
We don't have a way to measure that.
And that's the problem is there sometimes seems to be a benefit, but not all the time.
Because we don't have machines.
We don't have a way to assess it.
And if you can't measure something…
It doesn't count.
No worries.
I just said that I've been feeling for a while and I wasn't sure if there was any kind of…
So I'm not going to say yes or no.
From a scientist's point of view, we've got to work on how do we measure this?
Yes.
How do you measure moon for tidal forces of the moon?
How do you measure different kinds of energies coming through the atmosphere?
Exactly.
We're not there yet.
Yes.
Resonant frequency.
Exactly.
So that's fine.
Thank you.
Sorry that I can't answer that.
No, I love that.
This is how I answer that question to my kid.
Not that specific.
I don't know.
And then I say, let's go find out.
And sometimes that's a Google search.
Sometimes it's us going out to the garden because he's like, what happens if you do this?
My garden is a place where he can experiment growing life.
And sometimes that means he kills my plants.
But my plants, once they die, stop growing, they don't get ripped out.
They go back into the soil.
I don't even pull roots.
The root is the pathway.
Exactly.
So you don't take that plant and throw it on the waste pile and take it off to the landfill.
Why would you do that?
And yet we've taught the current generations that that's what you do here in the United States.
They don't do it in the third world.
You didn't teach them that.
I didn't teach them that.
It's what they've been taught.
You didn't teach them to throw it on the trash pile and not the petrol chemicals.
You don't leave something you can be busted for.
So Frenchie just gave a reality to the culture.
Oh my goodness.
That's prohibition.
So why are you growing in pots?
So that the coconut, you grab it, you throw it in.
You don't put back all your trim, everything where the plant grows because it's prohibition.
You don't leave shit in your garden.
You burn it, you throw it in a place nobody sees it.
There's a lot of stuff that people do.
It's because of prohibition and they don't really know better.
Well they've been told that if they leave that material on the soil surface that it grows pathogens, it grows pests.
It's a disease.
And there is misinformation on top of it.
That's how it started.
So should we be taking the organic material that grew right up out of the ground that we're standing in front of
and then use that to go back into the ground?
Yeah, it has to do that.
That's what should be happening.
But who's making money?
That's what you have to go back to.
That's why it's like when you create standards of quality,
you can define as well not only the microbial life that is going to be mandatory to do such and such a plant in such and such a place,
but you can control every aspect of it so that people, like even me as an ash maker,
okay I'm going to spin them in water, but then I should put them back to the plant that gave me it.
And it's like every plant on the planet is growing from the preceding generation.
I mean that's what they do.
So not having that is something we are missing also.
Like I was telling them last night, if the plant has an epigenetic memory,
how come we always have all the problems that there is here that I have never seen in producing country?
Like the plant should be, after a few generations, have no problem whatsoever.
It's like at best, the best genetics here are...
So they keep destroying the biology in the soil.
In this paradigm of conventional agriculture,
they are killing all of those things that would be allowing that plant to develop the resistant populations,
bacteria, fungi, phytophthora, nematodes, micro-arthropods, earthworms in the soil.
Because instead of focusing on the plant's weakness, we need to create strength.
Yeah, but the plant is not weak.
If the plant is weak, there is something going wrong.
It's not the plant that's weak.
It's a lack of the proper biology in the soil.
The plant feeds those organisms in the soil using exudates,
using sugars and proteins and carbohydrates being released from that root system.
And that plant is expecting to have those organisms around that root system in that soil.
Because it's been there for the last 4 billion years.
So the plant is communicating...
The plant is expecting that it's there and will grow.
I see what you mean.
And we've destroyed, in modern agriculture, we've destroyed that biology for the express purpose of allowing certain people...
Certain people, certain type of...
Certain characteristics.
Because maybe they don't winter the seeds in the ground.
So that there is something missing in that whole seasonal life of the plant.
And maybe not having the seeds in the ground in the winter,
maybe you don't have that memory changing the DNA and giving the data to the next generation.
But I never thought about the soil at that level either.
Well, not having the seed in the ground.
Hopefully we've got other seeds.
There are foods.
No, but for that plant to become heirloom, to re-adapt to the place, you know what I mean?
Because they keep it, they protect it in the winter.
They just put it in the fridge often before germinating it.
There is something that is not happening in the life of that seed
that normally happens to seeds that face evolution and diversity.
You know what I mean?
Maybe this is why it doesn't get stronger and stronger generation after generation.
But the soil is going to be there.
We'd really have to do some defining exactly what we would measure.
Because...
This is awesome.
Because these are questions.
You've got to do research.
These are questions that are honest questions.
We don't know the answer yet.
I think we have observations where I would probably say
I don't think that that seed being in the soil through that wintertime period is all that important.
Did you just say that a seed in the soil over winter may not be important?
May not be that important.
But it's still part of the picture.
It's a passing down of epigenetic memories.
That's something like...
Because when you put that seed in the soil in the springtime
we see all those populations of beneficial organisms develop around the root system
and move up onto the above ground part of the plant.
We grow plants that have no diseases, no pests, no lack of fertility.
And so that leads me to suspect we don't have to have that seed in the ground.
There isn't really anything that really requires that to happen.
Because we're not having plants that are weak and unhealthy.
If you've got the proper biology in there, they will be healthy.
For me it was like for the plant to really become part of the terroir, to become heirloom.
I think that's something that they miss.
And to breed with the plants that thrive after a winter under hard conditions.
That slowly, slowly you create a genetic that becomes an heirloom, literally.
It's local.
But it's not part of the defensive system as much as I thought.
As a terroir kind of thing where you're developing the flavonoids,
you're developing some chemistry in that plant that is very dependent on making certain
you have exactly the right sets of microorganisms to end up with that flavor.
And really it might be that you have to save the seed from those plants
and plant those seeds in the springtime again.
Because you're selecting for the organisms in the soil as well as those results of the plant itself.
I always thought about the land and the climate, but I never went at the microbial level.
No, no, never. It's like I'm...
It's super fascinating.
Super fascinating, with the good microbes.
Because it brings another dimension to your ability to fine tune
and make the best of what the land has to offer you.
Shouldn't we make the best of it?
We should.
And we should clean what we cannot do the best out of it as fast as we can.
That's right.
We do know that we need to make compost in the location that you're going to use that compost.
Because it's the indigenous species of bacteria, fungi, protozoa, nematodes, microarthropods
that we want to have growing and becoming a high number, a large biomass.
So that selects for plants that can grow in a healthy fashion in this community.
We don't want to be taking compost from Alaska and bringing it to Southern California
because the organisms from Alaska don't survive in that desert kind of system, or vice versa.
The desert organisms can't survive.
I'm freezing up here. I'm having a hard time surviving, and I'm from Central California.
If we were up in Alaska, Jeff would be happy. I'd be frozen.
No, but it's like that whole Appellation d'Origine in France, it's always about that concept.
It's all that local web life that is used that makes the quality of the products that grow here.
Why would you bring from the outside and change the recipe when the recipe is like, wow.
You know what I mean?
When you have uniqueness and quality, that recipe that the land is giving you,
you just want to protect it and nourish it, basically.
And nourish it. So if the plant is the farmer, and it's the one telling the whole ecosystem below the surface
what's going on and what it needs, what's our job?
Our job is to grow, harvest, and eat it.
And then make certain that those organisms that are supposed to be in that soil are promoted.
You make sure that they're going to still be there for the next crop going in the next year.
The next crop, the only thing the plant wants is to reproduce.
That's it. The name of the game is reproduction.
The best condition, the happier the plant is going to be.
The seed that's produced has maximum nutrition in it, maximum quality.
That's the purpose of that plant. And we're just helping ourselves to that bounty.
I like that.
We want to reserve some of those seeds, so we plant them again.
We don't have to worry about rotation.
If we don't kill off the biology in the soil, you're not going to have disease, you're not going to have pests.
You're not going to have a lack of fertility.
You have more than enough nutrients in your soil, especially with organic matter.
Without having to add buckets of other stuff from all over the world that cost money.
You're killing things when you're putting in those buckets of other stuff.
I got it in three words, you'll ask. Let's be natural.
I have the name of my company in three words.
Oh, nice. Let it grow.
That's right.
No, I like the...
People growing mostly organic.
There is no mostly.
You're organic and you don't touch any chemical, any nutrient and pesticide, or you're not.
Mostly doesn't...
It's not about organic, because salt's organic.
And if I put salt all over the base of my plant, it's organic, but is it going to grow?
You killed the organisms that are needed to help that plant grow in a healthy fashion.
Well, I'm not a very good steward if I'm killing the farmer.
How did we get started down that path, like, you know, being dependent on petrochemicals?
It really started with the mechanical tractor.
When we went from us having to hold the plow on the ground and push it,
and we have to expend all of our energy making sure that horse or mule or whatever pulling that plow,
as we go from one human being can only manage a small acreage,
probably no more than 20 or 40 acres, something like that.
You can care for a much larger parcel if you're not tilling it.
There's no need to till.
Well, the dependence on petrochemicals, like, where do we start with that?
It's a vicious cycle. It really is.
Let me finish.
Make time.
So, you know, we have to do something to put seed into the ground.
And that usually means you and a plow and a horse, and you've got to apply that muscle.
And you can't manage that much land all by yourself.
Well, if you have kids, then you can have, you know, okay, so there's family.
Family, community.
And it's when the mechanical tractor was invented in Australia.
Thank you, Australians, for messing us up.
And all of a sudden you could jump on a tractor and you could till 100 acres, 200 acres.
And, of course, as soon as you start doing that and you put your seed in, what comes up?
Because you've tilled the soil, you've brought that seed bank of weeds to the surface of the soil.
So what do you do to prevent those weeds from growing?
You go out and you till again.
And you slice and dice and crush and destroy the biology that your plant needs
in order to be able to outcompete those weeds.
Or you then split pesticide and herbicides on them, which kills plants.
So we came back from World War I, or World War II is when it really starts getting massive.
And what do you do with all of the munitions that we're not going to have to use
because we dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima and Nagasaki?
And we ended the war two years early.
And that means we had literally piles of munitions that weren't going to get used.
And somebody noticed that if you threw those munitions on an agricultural field,
the plants started growing better.
Because we had already destroyed the biology in the soil,
now when those plants get those soluble inorganic nutrients, they grow better.
Whereas if you had the biology in the soil and you threw those munitions out,
there's absolutely no effect.
Because the biology is already there.
Yeah. So it's that destruction of the biology in the soil because of the mechanical tractor,
and then the imposition of the wars happened just at the right time,
so that now we went down this pathway of the Green Revolution.
And in order to reverse that, we've got to start putting this biology back into the soil.
So when you put those inorganic fertilizers on, nothing happens.
It's a waste of your time and effort.
And then you're going to stop putting them on there.
That's right. You're going to stop using those pesticides
because you don't have the problem with those pests and those diseases.
The tractor, all that happened also in Europe, but because everything is smaller in Europe,
it didn't have that much of an impact.
In Europe, it's all small farms.
So yeah, you're going to use a tractor on your bigger piece, but not everybody.
Or they were sharing it. They were much less damaged.
While they were damaged, they were much less damaged.
And it was also the time where they were pushing poison on us because nobody knew better.
And make your life easier. Just pour this stuff out there.
And I think you resisted. Europeans resisted more.
Just didn't see the point and purpose in it.
Can we answer that question?
Which question?
The question of where did we all start to go wrong.
I think it was actually when Europeans came to the United States
and we looked at the Native Americans and thought that they were doing it wrong
and that they weren't making money off of it and we could make it better.
They were looking to nature for all their answers.
They were working with ecology and fire.
They were really putting it back in, watching the earth and how it worked.
We came in, oh, we can do it better.
We're going to cut down all these trees.
We're going to mix up the dirt.
And that's where it started, is making money.
Well, when you look at the Europeans when they first arrived in the United States,
they went into the typical slash and burn approach.
Where you would cut down all of the forest.
You till this land.
You would get the crop for 5 to 10, maybe even 15 years.
At which point everything's diseased, it's unhappy, you can't make a yield.
So you go to the next plot.
And you take down the trees, you till it, you repeat that whole cycle.
If you go to the journals of Thomas Jefferson at Monticello in Virginia,
you see that's exactly what he was doing.
He'd do agriculture here and then have to move there.
And then had to move again.
And then he had to move again.
And then he had to move again.
And then he had to come back to that first original plot.
And he could not grow the crops that he used to be able to grow when he did slash and burn.
And so he started working with compost.
He started trying to put whatever it was.
He didn't really understand what it was.
But he was trying to put it back into the soil.
Not being very effective.
No, but what you're saying is like it's civilization and nomadic life.
It clash.
But listening to Hélène, most of the biggest civilizations that lived on the planet
were died because they killed their soul and they couldn't nourish themselves.
So we started that from the beginning of civilization, the beginning of agriculture.
We have not been doing very good civilization after civilization.
But as Indians, that's exactly what they were doing.
They were companion cropping.
They were changing the place they were growing the soil.
No, they were nomadic people who used the Plum Kingdom but didn't control it.
It's vastly different.
But at the same time, humanity, when they come in that continent,
they destroyed every animal, prehistoric animal that was really big in a matter of a thousand years.
Endless.
So it's like don't think that the Indians and all what have been in America
didn't have a huge impact on the continent.
All that, the people living in the Pueblo, that whole Mississippi civilization,
they starved themselves to death literally because they killed the soul.
And now that I'm thinking, I'm starting to think back to a bunch of...
I know really well my story around the Mediterranean Sea.
And yeah, a lot of it, it's like they don't talk much about it,
but it's slowly, slowly the territory getting arid.
So they have to move on and then they go into other people's territory.
And Europe wasn't that big.
They had been warring each other since civilization was born.
I want to say thank you.
I think we can.
Elaine's got to get on the road.
I want to say thank you to both of you.
The reality that this is the biggest treat for me,
I hope you understand.
So I'm Dr. Elaine Ingham.
My company is Soil Food Web Incorporated and Soil Food Web School.
And I spend my life going around talking to people about all of these concepts,
promoting getting away from the toxic chemicals,
growing plants in the most natural of ways,
using all plants, all plants,
using life in the soil.
And those organisms were the first ones on this planet
and started everything rolling.
So let's go back and replenish that biology
that's supposed to be in the soil to help your plants grow better.
Me, I receive from the farmers that receive from the living soil.
It's simple.
I'm at the end of the chain.
The more I know about what gives me quality,
the better I can pass it down to others.
My name is Ryan Noss from Central Coast Let It Grow,
where that's what all I want to do is grow.
Thank you so much.
I also want to say thank you so much to Future Cannabis Project
and Signs of the Times.
Signs for the Times.
Signs for the Times.
Signs for the Times.
And the One Log Dispensary.
We're so grateful for this venue,
which is probably the most unique venue.
We are literally inside of a home made from one redwood tree.
It's hollowed out and it's a home.
How cool is that?
Thank you so very much.
