We both are involved with the Open Cannabis Project and that's something that I'm very
passionate about.
It has to do with cannabis and patents and intellectual property and you're an attorney
in that field so I'm sure we have lots to talk about.
Yeah, I think we do.
I got kind of pulled into cannabis a few years ago.
I'd been working with plant breeders for a long time and someone who had started a cannabis
genetics analysis kind of company wanted me to give him some advice about open cannabis
and I thought it sounded interesting and it's evolved into something that is a daily passion
for me.
That's great.
I'm excited to talk about it.
Thank you for your interest.
I think for a lot of us folks that have been breeding cannabis for a long time, this is
a hot button issue.
I don't necessarily have all the answers but I definitely have some opinions.
What do you think are the problems?
Why are patents a hot button issue?
Here's the crux of it in my opinion.
Cannabis is unique in that it's been under prohibition for around 100 plus years.
Well less than 100 years in some ways but it's been under prohibition for almost 100
years.
What has made it so the common publishing of breeding data that happens in an agricultural
community has not happened at all.
If I created a new strain or cultivar 20 years ago like I did, I never in a million years
would have written that down.
If we kept records, we made a practice of burning them at the end of the season.
Literally, I remember doing that.
Thank God that we're not doing that anymore.
That has made there's now a vacuum of what's called in the patent world prior art, evidence
of prior art.
For folks that don't know, prior art just means something that people have done and
created already.
It's not new and novel.
Because there's this vacuum, there is the possibility that folks could come and claim
that they've created something that they didn't necessarily create.
It may have been something that I had or any breeder might have had in their toolbox for
years.
Why should someone be able to then go and just snap that up and then come to me with
a cease and desist and say, you can no longer grow that variety that you've been growing
forever?
Well, that's it.
I think you've exactly framed the problem.
I've been doing patent law for about 20 plus years.
I've worked in biotech and medical devices and a lot of different areas.
What happens when someone applies for a patent, as you correctly stated, is that the patent
examiner looks to what's already in the public domain.
They look for published documents such as academic publications, patent documents, as
well as any kind of commercial record.
They use that to identify, all right, here's a patent application that claims to have invented
XYZ and I want to see what is the closest thing to it that is already in the public
domain.
Then they use that to figure out what really is new and what should be allowed to be patentable.
That's a hard job, but they do a careful analysis.
When they're doing their job right, they do a careful analysis of drawing lines between
what someone claims to have invented and what is already known to the public.
We overlay that with the cannabis market or the cannabis industry and we have a unique
problem of an industry that has essentially no recorded history.
It has the opposite of recorded history.
A history that was affirmatively destroyed.
There is no academic record.
There is essentially no patent record.
Any commercial record was hidden instead of published.
Burned in my wood stove.
Exactly.
A patent examiner though has the same duty, the same mission.
They read a patent claim that says I invented XYZ and then they go do a search and they
look for prior patents and academic publications and some kind of record of commercial activity
and they find almost nothing.
Then they're supposed to determine whether someone who claims to have invented a certain
strain or a certain family of strains with some properties.
It's their job to assess whether that's in the public domain or not.
They're working with their hands tied behind their back and with a blindfold on.
All they can do is follow the guidelines that they're given and they issue a patent.
You and I both know that we may not know for any given patent whether it's valid or not.
Whether it's wrong that they found it to be patentable.
What we do know is that there's a hell of a lot of reason to doubt that what they found
to be patentable actually is.
What we know is that the public record is a complete vacuum.
There are things that happened that never got recorded.
You're a living witness of that.
You see a patent that issues and you say, oh hell no.
I did that myself or I know people who did that 20 years ago and yet now someone is saying
they're the first ones to do it.
I look at that patent, I being you, I look at that patent and say I don't respect it.
I don't think that it should be enforceable.
I don't think that it should throw off a whole industry.
I don't think that people should change their commercial activities out of respect for this
patent.
If I get a cease and desist letter, I'm going to gather my friends with their pitchforks
and their torches and we're going to have an uprising over this.
It's understandable.
You can't blame the patent office.
They're doing their job.
They don't have the tools to issue a proper rejection.
You might blame the applicants.
If there are applicants that actually know the industry and that are just taking advantage
of the lack of evidence and they're basically doing some kind of gold rush land grab because
they can, because they've got the power and the resources and they're just doing it out
of bad faith, then they deserve the mob with the pitchforks and the torches to come after
them.
But maybe they don't even know.
That's very true.
We're in a situation where there needs to be some kind of other public forum to bring
forward the knowledge that exists in the memories and the heads and perhaps some hidden records
of people like you.
So okay, enough for me.
What do you have to say about all that?
Enter the open cannabis project.
For most of my adult life, I've worked in the nonprofit sector as a fisheries biologist
and did river restoration projects.
I feel like if there's a framework or a structure for an organization to tackle this issue,
that the nonprofit framework is kind of the best.
You've got somebody who is essentially, hopefully isn't putting any bias into this, isn't bringing
the ideas of...
Some big agenda.
Agendas, exactly.
They're looking out for supposedly the good of the whole.
I think in particular, folks that need some protection are the kind of mom and pop cannabis
cultivator and sort of the original pioneers of this industry.
I mean, now look what we're in Vegas's biggest convention center.
There's thousands of booths here, obviously deep pockets involved in this industry.
I do, I worry about my community in Humboldt and I worry about the local...
Just for example, my hometown in Humboldt County, the fire chief is a cannabis grower.
He's a volunteer.
He spends a lot of his time as a volunteer firefighter and wildfire, kind of an issue
lately.
We were in California.
I was in California yesterday and the world's biggest wildfires are happening.
To get back to the point, Jesse is having a really hard time financially and that's
just a sign of the times.
These are good people.
These are the chief of the volunteer fire and rescue and the school teachers.
A lot of folks have somewhat supplemented all the great things that they've been doing
with their farming of cannabis and that's just not going to happen anymore.
And that kind of stuff is changing.
Maybe it can still happen in some respect, but the last thing we need is a bunch of cease
and desist letters and patent infringement lawsuits stopping people.
We've all seen what happened and this is cliche, but when Monsanto had their fancy corn and
the pollen blew from their cornfield in Iowa or wherever it was over to the organic farmer's
cornfield and he said...
He kind of started the fight, I think.
He said, I don't want your pollen, your GMO pollen in my organic field.
I want to be organic and that's actually my market.
I saved my own seed.
And they said, oh, you're going to screw with us?
Well, we're going to sue you for patent infringement because you're now growing our patented corn
and you're not giving us royalty or you're not paying us our licensing fee.
So that could happen.
It's not inconceivable that that could happen in cannabis.
It's pretty perverse, isn't it?
It is.
It's, you know, that's in my...
I mean, I'm going to get off topic, but that's capitalism and greed.
I'm not a fan of either of those things, especially not unbridled capitalism and greed.
So...
Well, I think, I guess my own take on it is that if there's a solution, it is more transparency
and more communication about the actual history.
Because the essence of a good intellectual property system is that it can't take something
out of the public domain once it's actually in the public domain.
Yeah.
But we can't know whether something is in the public domain unless we document it.
That's right.
And the fact that there isn't a good documentation about what was in the public domain when cannabis
was kind of in the dark means that we need to take some steps to document the public
domain ex post facto.
That's right.
In a way.
I agree.
And that means that people need to step forward and say, especially in the context of newly
issued patents or patents that are newly applied for, we need people to step up and say, no,
this is already in the public domain and here's my evidence of it.
Here's what I know was happening 10, 20 years ago or whatever, as long as it was prior to
the filing date.
And this is why it's in the public domain and this is why this patent is invalid.
And here is a coalition of people who are willing to stand together to provide that
evidence and to essentially form a resistance.
Aren't we the militants?
And really to, you know, it's not even in my take, you know, you don't even have to
be anti-capitalist.
You just have to stand in favor of the public domain.
Really if something is in the public domain, then damn it.
Let's make sure it stays there.
Even if you're pro-capitalist, you can't have a meaningful IP system that can grab things
out of the public domain and appropriate them to one owner.
That is just messed up.
That doesn't work.
Because as soon as you can't rely on something being in the public domain one day and possibly
being taken out another day, then nobody has any certainty about their rights.
The whole world.
Where's civilization?
Right, right.
What is the world coming to?
Dogs marrying cats.
So you know, I totally agree.
And just to finish that point, like I, you know, I mentioned, I, you know, I'm not necessarily
like, you know, so radical that I would never say that, you know, I founded Humboldt Seed
Company.
I wouldn't tell you that I'll never patent a cannabis strain.
I'll tell you right now that I'm not going to just go and grab something that is...
That isn't yours.
That you didn't originate.
Well, that's for sure.
Or, or that's like really commonplace too.
I mean, you know, the things that we could, you know, think would, would think about potentially
wanting to protect with a patent, you know, like something like very unique cannabinoids
that have taken years and years of, of breeding effort to, to grow and develop.
And the, you know, that is just something that, that I haven't even really, I don't
even know if we've had enough time.
Even using like traditional breeding practices or even using genetic markers, you know, to...
There may be some, some groups that, that have that kind of IP and, and maybe there's
definitely maybe there's some warranted patents out there.
I don't think that I want to make a blanket statement and, and I'm not just like blanket
opposed to patents in the cannabis space or patents on plants.
And like the whole patents on living creatures.
A lot of people say, you know, like I don't, I'm opposed to that altogether.
I mean, there has to be incentive for us as breeders and it has to be somehow like
a legal hammer to protect that incentive.
And you know, we've used different techniques other than patenting in the past and that's
been successful.
Such as like licensing, you know, like we'll have a license agreement with several nurseries
throughout California currently.
And you know, that has worked wonderfully.
And you know, what I feel like is it should be something that benefits both of you anyway.
Like if you're a nursery and you want to license a varietal that I've spent a long time developing,
I license it to you.
You maybe give me a royalty every time you take a clone from it.
And then in turn, I'm like, Dale's nursery.com everybody.
He does a great job and we worked hard on this varietal and now he has it and the right
to propagate it openly.
And you know, it's my opinion that if somebody else comes in and gets it and starts propagating
it without my permission, you know, that's not necessarily a great thing, but they also
don't have the benefit of me sitting there being like, Dale's nursery is the one that
is the right person to go to, to get what I had created.
And so those kinds of things I think are ways that we can proceed and have incentive for
breeders, you know, without big overarching patents.
At the same time, there could be some really unique things.
I mean, there will be incredible things that come out of cannabis breeding and different
techniques for cannabis growing and all the stages of the game.
And those may very well deserve patent protection.
And so I don't think that, but it's just this very unique situation that we have where we've
had years of prohibition and so there's a vacuum of data.
And I think that's something that the Open Cannabis Project is tackling and doing a great
job and providing, being a leader in that, you know, and there's a lot of work left to
be done.
So they need, I'd say, support from the community as a whole.
Well, a couple of things on that.
One of my favorite sayings is that when you're a hammer, everything looks like a nail.
And I'm a patent attorney.
And so I kind of like patents, but I really hate patents that aren't valid, where someone
is basically being dishonest and taking something that isn't theirs because that wrecks the
whole system.
And especially when we're talking about utility patents, where someone says they invented
something that they just damn well did not invent.
That really makes me mad because it messes up my industry.
On the other hand, I've worked with some plant breeders, well, I've worked with plant breeders
my whole career.
And some of them, not as much in cannabis because it's a plant that you can propagate
quickly and you can select it.
You can select a lot of them.
You can plant a lot of plants in a relatively small space.
But I've worked with breeders of grapes and stone fruits where they might spend literally
eight to 10 years selecting a special variety and developing a variety that has commercial
value that might last for 20 or 30 years.
And if they don't patent that, someone can grab one plant and carry it off.
Yeah, a branch, a small cutting and carry it off and propagate acres and acres of that
and misappropriate 10 years of somebody's work.
And if there weren't a patent system to protect that work, that investment, these guys wouldn't
have a job.
They wouldn't have an employer.
Their employers wouldn't have a business.
And all of us wouldn't have those special varieties they spend all that time developing.
So maybe the world would still turn if we didn't have grapes that ripened two weeks
earlier or that tasted that much better or whatever.
But there is a hell of a lot of work that goes into that.
And that's what the plant patent system exists to protect.
I do have a friend who's a cannabis breeder.
And I absolutely believe that there are a lot of things that aren't worth patenting.
Even though I'm a hammer and everything looks like a nail, there are some things that you
can protect just with agreements, either handshake agreements or written agreements.
And you can say, all right, I'm not going to bother to patent this.
When I send you my clones, I'm going to ask you to only propagate this many and to pay
me this much and to restrict anybody else from propagating and to sell them for this
much and to just kind of respect the fact that I originated it and give me some credit.
That can work.
I do have this friend, though, that's a cannabis breeder.
And he actually did that.
And he sold his friend 500 clones.
Pretty soon he sees this strain showing up in catalogs and he knows it's his strain.
It's distinctive.
And I think his friend might have even used the same name.
And so he called his friend and said, hey, dude, where's my money?
What's the deal?
You're selling this in catalogs?
And he said, oh, you know, sorry, business.
Business is business.
Dude, you know, yeah, we had an agreement, but this is this is real life.
And that's when he came to me and said, I think maybe I need to patent my strains because
some people you can't trust.
And that's kind of what it comes down to.
At some point, things are valuable enough that even if you wish you didn't have to,
it's nice to have the recourse.
That's not the case with everything.
But to this extent that you invest a whole lot of work and a whole lot of time and you
make something really special and a lot of people are going to want it, sometimes it's
worth doing.
I'm not going to say it always is.
And perhaps with a with a plant that is easier to breed, quicker to propagate, quicker to
select and there are a lot of a lot more strains and a lot more variety.
It doesn't always make sense to patent it.
But there is something about that.
And I think there's a big difference between plant patents and utility patents and especially
the potential for abusing utility patents by just pretending to have invented something
that you damn well didn't invent and taking it out of the public domain.
That does make me kind of crazy.
Well, I'd say clearly this isn't necessarily just a black and white issue.
I think one thing to take home is the Open Cannabis Project is a much needed resource
for the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and for our community industry.
And that Dale, you are a very knowledgeable person on this subject.
And I think that it would be great to have you come on board with the Cannabis Project,
literally on the board, maybe.
I don't know if I'm supposed to talk about that, but it's a nonprofit.
So, you know, it'll be public record soon enough.
Thank you.
Well, we could geek out about this for a long time, but fortunately, we're out of time right
now.
They're probably trying to kick us out of this hall.
So yeah, that's probably all for now.
I see that the guys in black coats, I don't know if I'm just staying, overstaying my welcome
or maybe I've been infringing on some patent.
I don't know about it.
It's tequila time.
