And in three, two, one, we are live.
Okay.
Thank you for joining us, everyone.
We have, here we go.
Kevin Jodry is entering the room.
Chris Anderson is entering the room.
And that is me, Peter Saveri.
So Jason, what we were talking about earlier is kind of like, can you talk about the evolution
of kind of your grows and your grow style from like when you first started growing?
I assume it was not at a commercial, legal commercial scale.
So was it, was it in the garage?
Was it outdoors?
Was it up in the Humboldt area?
Was it?
Oh, it was definitely outdoors.
It was in the mountains.
You know, we back then call them griller grows.
You know, we, we'd hike bags of dirt, chicken shit, whatnot, up and down mountains and,
you know, hide them as good as we could.
And you know, it was like that for, for years.
And then eventually we, we started moving indoors.
I mean, the evolution is kind of started at a slower speed and has just sped up to a whole
different world now.
I mean, it blows my mind to see everything that's going on.
Yeah, I, you know, I was really young.
I was, I started working, you know, I'd still be growing, I'd be growing griller grows with
my dad and, you know, patches out in the middle of nowhere and, you know, doing construction
with him for a little while.
And then eventually moved on to just work in big indoor scenes and, you know, learned
how to grow both, both ways.
You know, the technology wasn't there.
So you know, we weren't doing testing and we didn't know near the science.
We just, you know, we were taught from our parents and we knew how to grow, you know,
we knew how to grow the plant.
And you know, funny you have Kevin here because I mean, the guy, his brain works different.
He knows so much more on this, you know, all the descriptions of living organisms and all
that.
But yeah, we could sit there and I could tell how to, if a plant has to be, by how it looks,
you know, I just always kind of fed it the same.
I've evolved to fed it, but I know how to grow a plant.
I don't really know how to describe it better than that.
Intuitive.
Yes.
You basically learned with your dad, right?
And was this in like the 80s?
I mean, you don't look that old.
Well, I'm 40.
You know, I remember growing.
So 90s.
Yeah, I definitely remember, you know, starting to work with him when I was around, you know,
eight probably, you know, I was probably picking leaves when I was about six.
You know, so I was, yeah, I was really young and, you know, it was a whole different world.
We were super freaked out just because, you know, we did a camp flying over our house
multiple times and landing at our house, coming in our house.
We dealt with all of that.
I've already, you know, I've told these stories a lot and, you know, it's kind of, I don't
really love to talk about it as much anymore.
It's good to let the story out at first.
Now, we're kind of past that.
We've, you know, we went from doing these, you know, just back then, like I said, we
grew, you know, 10 to 20 pounds and sell it for four to $5,000.
And you know, we were really, really, we were a real poor family back then, but our life
was just great.
So we didn't need thousands of pounds.
We just, we needed just what we could live on.
It was a whole different type of growing.
It wasn't growing.
Can you talk a little bit about what you were growing back then, what types of cultivars
and strains and how that's evolved?
Oh my gosh.
I mean, POT, we call it, you know, we grew pot, we grew seed weed.
We had seeds from friends, neighbors.
We all traded seeds.
It wasn't, there wasn't so many strains.
I mean, and as we know, a lot of these strains have, there's been one strain, you know, crossed
a thousand times now.
There's just so many strains.
It's crazy to watch happen.
Even when I was in my teens growing, you know, indoors, there was still probably four or
five strains.
And, you know, that's evolved.
It's amazing to watch it.
And it's exciting, honestly.
I mean, for me, I love the plant.
I love growing.
Right now I'm growing seven strains and six green, or seven strains and six greenhouses
that I've actually never even grown before.
I have 10 strains and six greenhouses and seven of them, I don't even know exactly what
they're going to do.
I've seen the final product through other people.
But you know, it's really exciting to see because there's just amazing, you know, these
people out here that, what are they called, Kevin?
Just the genetic, the people are, you know, all these, there's lots of people like, you
know, I'm growing stuff from, let's say, seed junkie right now and lemonade.
And you know, there's all these, they're incredible.
And, you know, so, you know, the evolution of the strains changing is just crazy to me.
So how do you decide what you're going to grow?
Do you take what's available?
Are you making proactive choices like this year?
Well, let's say this year, I mean, I'm sticking with stuff that I know people will like.
I mean, the Green Lanterns seem to do really good.
It's a very, very potent strain.
It seems to be, in this day and age, people really like high THC.
That's like what they're going for.
They want to see these numbers from 25 and up.
Personally, it's not what I love, but that's what they really like out there.
Green Lantern is a very special strain because it floors you.
It doesn't have tons of flavor.
It's gassy when grown and cured perfectly because it does have like, you know, there's
about half OG in it.
But these other strains, you know, let's say like Runt, it's a very popular strain, but
it tastes amazing.
I mean, when I smoke it, it has lots of like the purple hercule flavor that was one of
my favorites back in the day.
What's the cherry?
What's the cherry one, Kevin?
Could you add on there?
What's that?
Do you like the cherry pie?
Yeah, the cherry pie.
The cherry pie is in lots of these.
That was one of my, I really liked, you know.
I'm kind of going with, I always will grow an OG because I love the gassy OGs.
I love the, just the dominant indica.
I say OG is queen.
I mean, that's what you say.
It's always, people always love OG.
I love OG, but I do love flavors.
I have this Sohum citrus I'm growing and it tastes like an orange.
It's a very citrusy flavor.
I did notice, you know, let's say in Emerald Cup last year, a lot of the flavors that
were up there in the top were more exotics.
And you know, so it's weird.
Certain places, I mean, as we know it, we know East Coast loves the gassy flavors.
They love the sour diesel.
They love the OGs.
I mean, I mean, that's just coming from a person that produces marijuana.
You just know where it goes and that's what they love.
But it seems like it's turning into more of an exotic type of like out there and a
high THC.
So between both of those, you know, I look and see what the public really likes, what
I like, you know, just kind of roll the dice on a lot of it and hope that, you know, I
don't know.
You kind of learn to strain.
I could tell OG exactly when I flip it, how big it's going to get.
I know what to feed it.
I know everything about it.
So when you pick a new strain, it's a whole different thing.
You have to pick, you know, you don't know when you flip it, if it's going to, let's
say Skittles one year, I grew that.
I flipped it, it grew one inch and then started budding.
They were tiny.
You know, let's say the Runts, you flip it, it'll grow, it'll double its size.
So you kind of have to learn strains.
It is risky to switch and grow a bunch of different strains, but I really like the variety.
I like having, I know I'm growing great strains because like I said, the people that made
these genetics, I mean, they're crushing it.
And so I'm not really worried about it being good.
I know I can do the quality.
I mean, that part I'm not super worried about either.
So you put that together and it should be fun.
It makes it way more interesting than growing all OG.
I did that for last, or if not last year, year before, probably four or five years in
a row, just all OG because that's what people wanted.
Cool, beautiful plants, love it.
But, you know, we need more, we need, like you say, evolution.
We need to evolve.
For me, I've been growing weed, like I said, since really, like really growing weed since I was probably about 12.
And so the excitement in it for me is definitely seeing new strains, growing new strains and getting the feedback from the consumers.
And I mean, that's what it's about.
That's really what I was hoping to talk about a lot on this is we really need to educate the consumers.
And that's, you know, that comes from.
You know, the dispensaries, Chris, Redwood Roots, you know, people going out there and getting our herb out there, telling our stories, knowing where the herb that they are buying comes from, where that money that, you know, who they're supporting,
what they're putting in their bodies, you know, all of that comes back to educating the consumer.
And if we all work together like podcasts like this, you know, and get the word out and let them know, you know, they buy it from a family run farm.
Are you know, we support a small community.
Basically, they help support a whole village.
And I mean, that's really what's happening, you know, and that's what keeps our little town going.
Yeah, I think I mean, you're talking about education, and I think it's interesting that you do have to balance kind of growing hype strains versus maybe stuff that you and your dad grew or your neighbors grew that you really loved, but doesn't have the hype.
Like when Chris has to go down.
Chris, were you just down in L.A.?
I think he's on the 405 right now.
I'm actually I just hit the valley down on the five.
I just came down the grapevine into the valley.
You're in the you're in SoCal right now.
So like in terms of when you're interacting with shops and bud tenders and owners and purchasing decision makers, you know, telling the story of something that's not a hype strain, but that Jason has been growing or any of your other
farms have been growing for decades and is you think is amazing.
But the kind of general public is like, that's not the hype strain that I'm looking for.
They just haven't smoked it yet.
But yeah, I'm actually not.
I currently are.
Our major focus is on moving a lot of bulk product.
We are not servicing a whole lot of dispensaries at this point in time.
We've kind of regrouped and honed in our whole strategy on distribution to instead of why we had a vision of covering all the bases and full vertical integration and all the whole nine yards.
And I still feel like that is something that's out in the future.
Potentially, however, we've we've really honed our whole process and business and financial model into first mile distribution and procurement.
And delivering that product to other brands and distributors across the state, more more so than retail at this point.
We are redirecting a whole lot of our energy here in the next two, three, four, five, six months.
Back to the brand and retail and getting shelf space and having those conversations with butt tenders and buyers and and and and and and and and.
That education that Jason speaks of is is absolutely important.
But how do you get the.
Mass consumer base to swap up.
The fluff and the vapor of all these designer strains, which are chronic, crucial, I like smoking all of them, too, for sure.
I just like POT.
What's wrong with that?
You know, whatever happened to the pot strain?
I love the evolution.
I love all the genetics.
The evolution to me is is is more based on medicine and the evolution of genetics and and breeding and the unknown medicines that can be unlocked in that evolution is is super crucial.
Of course, we all like the flavors and the high and and the terpene profiles and all that stuff.
We're you know, I think most we all we all enjoy all of that stuff.
However. I did see the evolution of cannabis and the medicine part is what gets me really excited, and I'm obviously not a doctor or a scientist, but there are doctors and scientists out there pushing the envelope and.
You know, so that that's exciting to me.
So I want to do we got what I like about this is we have plenty of time to dive into some of these topics so I don't have to gloss over them, but I want to get into kind of the evolution
of each of your like the many pivots and twists and turns you've taken and kind of your current line of thinking.
But let's let's stick with kind of cultivation and stuff like that.
Jason, give me an example of something that you like to smoke that you don't see out on the market or think that people necessarily appreciate.
Um, what's it?
And Chris or Kevin or.
Well, my dad has this seed strain he's been working on for a while. It's called Supergirl.
And I mean it, it's amazing. It's completely pretty much done by September. I mean, buds are giant.
Which, you know, when you bring a bud, you know, this big and it dries this big. It's people don't love it in a bag. It's, you know, the bag of peels not crazy, but it's the high is amazing. It's, you know, I mean, I still have
when my dad shows me his weed and I look at it and oh yeah, you know, I know personally on the market. It's not this purple nug that looks like it's dipped in sugar, but it's amazing. You smoke it.
And it's like, you know, I mean, he grows 15 plants, you know, and he puts so much time and love into him. You smoke it and you could just taste it. It doesn't hurt your throat. The high is amazing. It's clear.
And you know, it's great. I mean, so basically it comes down to it's, you know, it's like you say the hype. A lot of that weed is amazing. Like I said, I do. I love smoking runs. I mean, it's tastes really good.
I mean, who could say it's the most beautiful looking plant. I mean, it's purple. It's amazing, but it tastes okay. You get a little flavor, then it's gone. The high is okay. But yeah, you know, my dad has some seeds that, you know, we pop them and we actually grows a few plants. So I'll rather smoke some of that than some of these other strains because it just tastes great. Looks not quite there. But yeah, it's called Supergirl. Maybe one day we'll have to bring it out.
Talk about your, because when we were talking before, you were talking about playing with some new products and specifically Roots Organic. And so can you talk about your setup? Like you said, you have seven greenhouses. Are you in pots? Are you in raised beds?
I'm in raised beds. I mean, I love growing organically. I have changed so many times and anyone around here that says they've only grown organic is pretty much full of crap. I mean, when we were younger, we didn't know shit. You know, I put Osmocote on the bottom of the ground in the middle of nowhere with drip lines. I didn't know I use Bro-More. You know, we used to literally dip our hands
in Abbot. Like we didn't know any of this stuff when we were younger. And so I went through the evolution of just using whatever I was taught for years, GHP, you know, lots of different stuff. I mean, it wasn't good. I'm not gonna, but when you don't know any of this, when you're younger, you're just trying to produce and get a certain amount of yield. And you know, for your boss and make everyone happy. You're just listening to people. That's what you do.
As you learn, you know, and I mean, obviously my dad was happy with any of that. That's for damn sure. But as we evolved, you know, I definitely started going back and I've always the raised beds or pots. You know, I have planted, you know, augured holes right into the ground. But you know, we just use, you know, the usual, the worm, the chicken shit, you know, the basics, lots of bat and stuff like that. And
then, you know, I'll tell you right now is if you say, you know, everything and growing, then, you know, and you're never gonna, you're never gonna, you aren't gonna move on, you're not gonna get better at what you do. And I've always listened, I learned, and I take advice from other people. And in this industry, it changes so much. Growing, the knowledge has changed so much. And
this year, what I'm doing, you know, last year, I tried certain things, you know, and and I liked it, it worked out good. But I have some friends that you know, we were childhood friends, pretty much baby.
Just quickly, can you talk about some of the things you tried last year? And kind of what?
I did try some new stuff with Green Grow and tried some of their products. I had a I got really lucky. I had a really good friend I fish with, or have a good friend I fish with that, that is a tea guru. And last year was my first year to really learn how to do tea, which I still don't know shit. Honestly, I'm not gonna pretend like I do.
But I know what to put in. Because what he told me, because I listened, but I know what to put in, you know, in these tea, and I brew tea for the whole run. And
So talk about kind of some of the things he tried to drill into your head.
Well, it's not drilling into my head. It's basically how long you brew tea. It's what you put in the tea. Everything you put in takes some 24 hours, some 32 hours. I mean, it goes on and on. It's the amount I mean, people write, there's tons of books on this that are probably, I mean, I'm just saying it's evolving.
There's too much for me to learn in a year. So he, he gave me his recipe. And that was mostly for the grow stage. So I use that my plants grew. They look like celery, they grew so fast. My starts that were in five inch pots were, I mean, it was like, I mean, they grew like bean poles. I never see nothing like it.
I was really excited. And then when it came to the bloom stage, he didn't really give me any of that. So then I had to start digging. I started going with some green grow. I started going with some root stuff. They have this turp teas and this bounty, bounty makes teas. And so I started, I mean, you could go in the stores and you can buy pre-made teas for a lot of money. Or you could buy just, you know, the right ingredients. I spent $200 and I still have stuff from that.
And at the end of last year, I could tell you right now my yields were down and my quality was up. So, I mean, you, you could smoke. And I was told this from a few of the judges. You could smoke the joint all the way down to the bottom of the roach and it still tasted good. And I, I think that was from the tea, honestly.
So now this year, what I was trying to do is like I was saying with the roots is these are two really good long time old friends. I've known them my whole life. You know, they're, they're in Eugene, Oregon. They're in a whole different area. And I remember them coming here because they had a grocery store. It was mostly like a fish store back then.
And so they came here probably 12 to 15 years ago and they sat down and they were just tripping on all the weed grown here and just how this, you know, our, our, our basically cannabis culture we live in was, we were thriving and they want, you know, they're excited about it. And so to me, it was really special that we all went all the way around and we met right here and I said, let's work together. Why are we not working together?
And so one of my best friends, which he's like one of the main guys who produces their products. He is a genius. He talks to me and I don't understand half the stuff he's saying, but he's basically helping me with this organic recipes and you know, I'm using a lot of their products this round. And it is, I mean, it's fun.
It's a whole new thing. I have new strains, I have new product. And you know, that's a lot when you know what you do, you know how to do it. And I know I'd be fine doing what I've been doing for the last 10 years. You know, when I say that because I've switched so many times the last 10 years of just growing with, you know, the regular ingredients I use. It's a lot to really do that and trust in other people.
Especially when I have so many eyes on me to grow really quality product.
So, but anyways, so now I'm doing a whole new different feeding regimen. I'm using the same dirt. I'm adding a lot of the same stuff to the dirt and I'm doing a lot of new strains. And besides that, like you said, intuition of knowing, okay, well, my plant looks like there's too much nitrogen in it. You know, I could tell that before I send off to him to the lab.
Because we never had tests. We've never, I've never tested my weed once. I never tested my dirt. This all just started happening now, you know, we didn't test for THC, we smoked the weed, you got really high, high THC. You know, it wasn't, it's just one of these things like coming from me. And I mean, I can see, you know, Kevin and Chris, it's like, this is our life. We've been doing this our whole life. So, you know, people were ahead of us on the indoor game.
Like that, you know, CO2 and this and that. We didn't have CO2, we had big old diamond lights, you know, we, you know, big old bulbs. And we're behind the technology, but we all, it's in our, it's our heritage. It's what we've been doing. We know how to grow weed, we know the plant. So we don't even need all that technology.
You know, so we could actually, we're so lucky that I could skip around and I could grow other food that I personally know is good and do it in the same way that I've kind of been doing it. And I have a feeling it's a turn out good. And I mean, right now my crop look amazing.
I mean, I have stocks that are giant, which sometimes scare me because the giant stock on a debt plant isn't always the biggest, but right now it's starting to stack and everything is looking really, really good. Yeah, it's just, you know, for me, it's exciting. I need some more excitement, you know, and, you know, winning cups and all that. That's definitely fired me up having, you know, one of my best friends in the world, Chris, watching him, his business thrive, watching so many,
so many of my really close friends take this journey we're on right now and run with it, you know, because, you know, it wasn't really, it was kind of a half half split around here, probably even less, probably a 30, 70 of people that went the way that we went. And, you know, really, it was a pretty scary, scary move that we did, you know, go from outlaws to, you know, be out in the public and be on the New Yorker and give interviews.
And, you know, tell your life. I mean, it definitely wasn't easy. So I'm saying all of this type of stuff is what is getting me excited and keeping me going in this way. I mean, I love the plant. I love growing. I'm a very small scale farmer still. And that's fine with me. You know, I mean, I'd rather do quality over quantity any day of the week, you know.
All day.
All day.
Okay.
A big old filing cabinet behind you. Is that for all your paperwork you have to do now?
There's so much paperwork. It's yeah, that part of the game. Now you're gonna bum me out. See now you're gonna bring me down.
That part of the conversation.
I hate that part of the game. Yeah, that's literally I leave metric. I wanted to hire someone but my wife wanted to take that on. Well, it's not the best thing for a relationship is metric. I'll tell you right now. But yeah, the county the paperwork.
We had a hard three years. And you know, right now we're still battling and I mean, I've I've stuck with the county that I've been working on for three years straight. The easiest stuff you would think would be like, let's just get it done. And it's just not done, you know. So yeah, the paperwork is a nightmare, but we're all starting to settle in and figure out where we're at in this game and how you know how it's going to pan out. And we know that.
Hey, we are essential, right? We know that. I mean, it's amazing right now. You know, what's happening in this time and that people love weed. I mean, it blows my mind right now seeing how much weed is out there and the demand for our weed is just as high as ever, you know.
And that's, you know, like when I scroll through Instagram, and you know, I'm looking pretty much everything on my Instagram is weed because you know, it's it's who I follow and you'll come across giant greenhouses that are you know, I don't know, 10 I don't know what are they 20,000 square foot greenhouse is maybe even bigger with just lights and this and that. I scroll right through that. I don't even I don't care about that.
I look at like a plant and some small farm and you see little veggies around and just a beautiful bud and that's what I want to look at. I mean, the rest of it's just like rows of weed. I don't really I don't care. They're probably feeding it tons of salts and crap and it just doesn't really mean anything to me. And I know, because I know what's the best and that's really what comes back to the consumers. It's not fair. A lot of them don't know what is what is the best.
What they're smoking what they're putting in their body out there, you know?
Are you doing what two turns a year?
I do too. I do too. And a lot of people, you know, I've had people come up here, you could
set these up, you can put lights, you go all year round. I'm like, I need a break, man.
I have kids, I have a life. I want to go on vacation. I want to, you know, life's fast.
You know, I got a 16 year old and 11 year old. And yeah, I don't need to go around all
year. This is, this is plenty. I mean, we've been doing it like all year, our whole life.
I mean, we grow indoor, we grow outdoor, indoor, outdoor, indoor, outdoor. So to be able to
change, get rid of the indoor, focus on, you know, growing beautiful, full sun. And, you
know, with our climate, it's just, it's worked out great. You know, I mean, you never know
what the weather's going to hear. Last year, we probably could have done a third round,
you know, stayed beautiful for longer, but it's fine with me, man. It's plenty of weed
and you really have to put all your energy into it if you really want the product that
I want to give to the consumer.
I'm looking at the chat on YouTube and Brath Zacklin said, I'd go as far as to say Bag
Appeal has set cannabis back with bullshit breeding goals.
100%.
So, Chris, can you talk about like, you know, you're, you're on Jason's farm a lot. Can
you talk about kind of, I mean, I know you, you hung up the cleats as a grower. So I want
to talk about your...
I got my sick plants in my...
Nice. So what are you, what are you, what are you running at home right now then?
Let's see. I got one, oh, I've been playing with, I got a bunch of genetics that I actually,
like years ago. And then I got this crucial OG seed from this dude up in Harris that brought
OG up to sell. I'm like 25 years ago. One of the dudes, there's like 10 people that
claim they brought it up there, whatever, wherever it came from. I don't care. I got
an OG seed that actually ended up, I planted it, it was a bag seed and it ended up being
a male. So I started pollinating all these different genetics with that one male that
I got. So, and then I've been pulling males out of that to pollinate stuff every year.
But so there's, it's six different, six plants, six different strains. They're all like crosses
of this OG. There's a, I got a Fruit Loop seed from Johnny Casali. I got an XJ. There's
a milk and cookie seed that Hi Larry from LA gave me at a San Bernardino High Times
Cup like four years ago. There's a train wrap, a purple oracle train wrap cross. That's stupid,
stupid, stupid fire. I'm going to start to trickle these out next year. They're starting
to stabilize finally. So should be some good stuff coming out. But last year I grew my
first 12 pounder.
So yeah, get into the, in terms of, or what were you asking about Jason's farm?
You've watched him. So what, what have you seen with kind of the evolution of his journey?
Whether it's cultivation style or running a professional small operation or?
I really, really, really am stoked he transitioned over to teas. I did, I made that move myself
seven or eight years ago. And then I haven't been growing much herb for the last few years,
but it went from spending however much money on plastic bottles for the full of fertilizer
to 50 pound bags of, of amendments into a brew tank. And the cost of goods dropped tremendously.
Green profiles shot out the fucking roof. So I'm a, I'm a firm believer in, in, in teas
and I'm super stoked. Jason has trans transitioned that direction for sure. Man, I'm all over
the place though. I, I, I, unfortunately I would like to spend more time with Jason on
his farm, but I mean, I've been there three or four times this year. And, and I, what
I can say is that his crop this year looks phenomenal. So whatever the hell he's doing
this year is good. So that, that, the roots organic decision and that relationship is,
has so far proven to be a good one. And, you know, I, I really appreciate what you said,
Jason, about the honesty of, of where we've came from in terms of our practices out there
in the Hills and all these people up here up and so on and humbled and the Emerald Triangle
trying to be all righteous about organic and stuff, which we should be now at this point.
And we should be pushing that and we should all be growing organic. But anybody like Jason
said, that claims that's what they've been doing for forever is, is a bunch of crap.
So we're all learning. We're all evolving. We're all trying to be better people and do
better things. We were young and dumb and trying to make a bunch of money and it didn't,
you know, that not everybody was that there's a lot of conscious, you know, earthy people
up there that have always been that way and didn't, you know, use blue juice, grow more
and spray out of it or, and they didn't do that, but there's a big percentage of people
up there that certainly did. So I appreciate the honesty and the candidness there. And
the, the, again, we're, we're, we're here staring our face ourselves in the mirror about
our, our, our prior lives and how we can improve our current actions in this world. Jason has
kids, you know, he's going to leave this farm to his kids. And so a piece of property is
super important to him and keeping it clean. And, and then like he also said that, you
know, I believe the education to consumers for sure, some of it certainly should be pointed
as Jason said, towards what, what are you putting into your body? And if consumers knew
a lot of them, maybe they just don't care. They're eating McDonald's anyway. You know,
so maybe the most consumers don't care, but the ones that do, we don't grow enough pot
to feed all the consumers anyway. So let's find those consumers that do care because
there are enough of them that do care. They just don't know where to find us yet. They're,
they're finding us slowly, but surely, but so anyway, Jason's farm is absolutely beautiful.
It's been incredible watching the, the evolution of him as a businessman and, and a community
leader and a farmer as well. It's not just the cannabis evolution. We're like, you know,
we're growing up and, and dotting our I's and crossing our T's and becoming real, real
life businessmen, which is a cool thing too. You know, we're stepping up to the plate as
a community on that level. So, and Kevin's certainly been leading that charge. Absolutely
no hot air there that you, you took it seriously to the professional level from the get go
when this two 15 kicked, I kicked off and a large percentage of, of the people I know
weren't into that yet. And in fact, believe I've always believed in the medicine, but we're anti
any kind of regulation or legality. So the fact that he, he took the initiative and became a
leader in our community and in the cannabis community and, and has been a major driving
force in that is super inspirational to me. And, and you know, I felt like I kind of stepped out
of the closet pretty early and so on, but Kevin was in that shit 10 years before me. So kudos to
that for leading the charge and kind of opening the door for the rest of us, you know, that
lived that old life to be comfortable, more comfortable, maybe not comfortable, but a little
more comfortable stepping into this new life. So it's, it's an exciting time for, for me and for,
for us, man, I really believe we made the right decision and decisions heading this direction. I
just believe it with every fragment of my being and the indicators currently are proving that to be so.
What when you say this direction, do you mean going into the legal market? Okay. So, so given that all
three of you are long term cultivators and operating in the joyful California legal cannabis
system, Chris, you were, when we started touching on business, you were talking about kind of the
wholesale or the bulk. So can you talk about the evolution of your vision from like, because at one
point you were growing and you decided entering the legal market that did you, were you growing when you
first entered the legal market?
Absolutely. And what stopped me from cultivating is the police coming to my farm.
Even though you had all your permits and...
No, I had a collective, I had a patient base. The Mendocino County was dragging their feet, getting
their ordinance in place. And so I focused all my, my energy on my commercial piece of property in
Bembo and my distribution, retail, manufacturing, nursery permit, permits that I filed with Humboldt
County for that piece of property. And kept on cultivating because I had a patient base and a
collective and I was feeding patients medicine. Mendocino County then finalized their ordinance
and I didn't have the bandwidth to do it all. And I was focused on the Bembo property and I, really
little, I mean like 4,000 square feet little. And I'm at the very, very, very, very, very, very
Northern tip of Mendocino County, knowing what they would have to fly over and drive by to come to my
house where I live, the house my grandparents built. And...
They decided to drive two and a half hours from Ukiah with 35 people to bust my 4,000 square foot farm.
Driving by acres and acres and acres of illegal pot with no collective or patient base. So fuck you
Mendocino County and fuck you fucking Fish and Game for doing that.
What year was that?
I don't even fucking know. Three years ago or something.
Okay.
But...
Like five years ago.
The reality is that I honed a skill in over this fucking crazy life of finding the silver lining. And
the silver lining in that was that I didn't go to jail. And I focused 100% of my energy on my
commercial piece of property in Benbow and getting this distribution thing off the ground. And if I
wouldn't have done that, I would still be spread out. I would still be all over the place. I
wouldn't have focused. I wouldn't have honed in on something. And so that was the beginning of the
honing and the evolution and the, or the whatever you want to call it, from that period to now has
been keeping my ears wide open, listening, sponging, watching, not talking, and seeing what
all these other entities were doing and the mistakes they were making. And having conversations
more so for intelligence with really big investors and listening to them and having them
kind of guide and say, well, wow, maybe you should do this, or maybe you should do that. Or maybe you
shouldn't do all of that. Maybe you should do this one thing and do it really well. Some investors,
conversations will know that's the right thing to do. You need 10 mil today. You need 20 million.
That million isn't enough. You need 20 million right now. Let me force it down your face. You
need to grow fast. And all I got to say to that is that's a wrong strategy. And slow, steady,
and organic has proven to be the way for Redwood Roots. I'm not saying that any other way is
right or wrong for anyone else, but I know what's worked for us. And
we still have our eyes on retail. We still have our eyes on delivery. We still have our eyes on
maybe nursery. Certainly have our eyes on processing. As a distribution company,
we know how crucial processing is. And I saw that coming two years ago. I just haven't had
the capital or the funding or the bandwidth to get ahead of the game. But I saw this
second coming years ago. I knew exactly where this was going. But we don't have to listen to
anybody tell us what to do or where to spend our money or how to grow. We get to do that on our own.
And at the same time as listen to what other people have to say and their opinions of where
we should go and what we should do. But at the end of the day, we get to make our calls
and make that decision for ourselves. So sorry, I'm kind of rambling now.
I like it.
Hey, Chris, talk a little bit more about the economics of bulk versus branded or retail and
what you're seeing out there.
Bulk gets farmers paid immediately if they're working with the right distributor.
Some distributors, not so much so. Retail is brutal. It is fucking brutal. It's cutthroat.
People are straight corporate America modeling under pricing to get market share and trying to
put little guys out selling $8 fucking eights. Fuck you. Ain't the way to fucking play.
And just so we know what we're talking about, how many farms are you distributing for and getting
their product out there for?
Probably this year we sold product from 120 farms. The next year, I bet it'll be 240.
And I assume you started with kind of the farms that were all your friends like a Jason and you
were fulfilling a need for him. Because what I've seen and a lot of friends who are up in the hills
or wherever, it's like you're at the total mercy of some distributor who just doesn't give a shit
about you, who's then going to take your product and bring it to a shop that doesn't give a shit
about you. And you don't have the time to get off the farm. And so to have somebody who,
I'm talking about the two of you who you've known for a long time, who you trust, who's out there
trying to do right by you, must be, I mean, Jason, that must be a godsend to have Chris as someone
you deal with rather than random distributors cold calling you and wanting to strike deals.
I mean, 100%. Like you said, the wholesale market is easy. It's easy to get paid. But
I got really lucky, obviously, to get my name out the way I did. I mean, it started with Kevin
at the Golden Tarps 2017. I got the win there with the Green Lantern and it started rolling
from there. So yeah, the wholesale works for anyone. And it's quick. You sell your weed,
you get some so and so. They get to claim your wonderful grown herb and put it on the shelf as
theirs. And that's great. I mean, you get paid and your family gets to eat and it all works.
But it's really about making the right decisions. And when you don't know what you're doing,
I don't really want to put out too many names out there. But it's like when I first won the cup and
I went with, you know, Wokana, let's just say, you know, I don't have much bad to say about him.
But I didn't really know. I have Chris, my best friend. He's doing his thing. And I was so excited.
I was like, oh my God, maybe I could get out there. This is really happening. I didn't know
what route to go. I was more acting on excitement. And, you know,
so I had to learn, right. And, you know, I did a little thing with them. And honestly,
it was great. They did me right. But I wasn't feeling it. I didn't feel it in my soul. I didn't
feel my heart. It didn't really make me feel great. What made me feel good was showing up the Emerald
Cup this year with a bunch of my best friends that I personally know are amazing farmers and
what they do is real and who they are is real and the product they produce is the best.
I mean, that's my soul right there. I already won. Our booth was fucking amazing. We had the
best group of people. And so, yeah, I mean, having some I mean, doing this journey with Chris, we
both talked. We both when this all started unrolling, you know, one of my things that was
tripping out, like, well, I've been growing weed my whole life. My dad was growing weed his whole
life. I mean, this is our life. This isn't we aren't just jumping in. We aren't 2017. We started
growing weed. This is our life. And I started feeling like, oh my gosh, this ball's rolling.
What's happening? We're just going to all get pushed out of our fucking heritage. It's gone,
you know, and it was scary, but I knew there was something deeper. I remember one of the first days
sitting around with Chris was coming up with this Redwood roots and we were all deciding if we were
going to sign like basically these affidavits with the county and a lot of people said if we sign
this or that, we're going to get fucking we're admitting everything and we're going to probably
get audited and go to jail, you know, and we didn't know what the hell was going on.
So basically, you know, going through this journey and having friends like Chris to be able to
console and talk and and then obviously work with is a blessing. I mean, without them, I'd feel
alone. And, you know, like I said, I have a lot of friends that feel different about all this. You
know, they went the whole other route and, you know, I still hope the best for them. You know,
I don't ever want to see somebody go to jail for marijuana ever. And I hope everybody
staying outlawed, you do fine. It's nothing wrong with that. I feel for me, the position I'm in,
I feel like I was meant to be in this position. I feel like Chris was meant to be in this position.
And there's a lot of other people in our community that were meant to be in this position. You know,
I'm excited to work with Chris. I went, he basically watching him like, you know, we were,
I was still growing weed. I was still making money. I was surviving. I mean, I watched him
give up everything and basically go deep, deep in the hole and work his ass off and had so many
people not believe what he was going to do was going to really work out. And I did believe it.
I fucking knew he was going to do it because you hear him talk. It's like you have that passion,
that drive, you know, that will to not give up, you're going to win, you're going to make it.
And so I'm not surprised how, you know, where he is and what he's doing. And I'm so fucking happy
he is where he is because he is helping out so many farmers, so many families. And I mean,
we're talking people that were, there's so many people that were at these big corporations. Like
you said, they got handed millions of dollars and oh my God, it's great. Well, who are they
calling now? My boy, you know, they're calling him up, you know, come help us out. And I guarantee,
you know, getting paid from a community, a small business, a family run business,
it feels so much better than getting a check from some big corporation. It really does. And,
you know, it's like I said, it's hard. I still have things going on here and there where it's
like, is this the right decision or that the right decision? Because I do want to stay relevant.
You know, I do want to be out there and have my name out there. And, you know, there's a lot of
these big companies that will help that happen. But at the same time, you have to kind of work
with, you know, what your heart and soul, what you feel good about. You know, I mean, I'm
40. I've been growing weed my whole life and I've been blessed. You know, you're doing a job
with something you enjoy your whole life. I mean, what more could I ask? So at this point, I'm
just going to keep, you know, trying to, you know, I'm not, I have relationships also with
Humboldt Brand. You know, there's another group, there's another small business, you know, it's
like staying local, spreading my love out there, you know, giving weed to this person, that person
is great. And I mean, Chris kind of went more to the wholesale thing, which I wanted to do some of,
but to keep the Ridgeline name out there and keep it growing, I need to be on shelves. And I'll tell
you, like he said, it is a cutthroat game. It costs so much money. I'm finally getting my first
jars out this next month. And it's been like a year and a half, thousands of dollars.
So you were just bringing your brand to market?
No, not all my brand. I've been co-branding with everyone, you know, you have Ridgeline with
all kinds of people, but actually make some of my own jars, which I'm still, I'm going to do
these jars. Oh man, they are beautiful. But do you have one? I'll grab one here in a minute.
But I'm gonna actually get to drop this special jar with my buddy Chris. And we're gonna do that
probably next month. And so to be able to, you know, because I could still make it, but
he has the connections, and he's doing the legwork. And so, you know, for me to be able to grow the
weed, put it in the jars that I designed, give it to one of my best friends, and he gets to go out
and distribute it to people and make people happy. And I mean, it's just, it's a beautiful thing.
So how many pounds are you producing? Do you think you'll produce this year?
You know, I like to say, I like to tell you right now, whenever anyone looks at my greenhouse and
says, man, you're gonna kill it. How much is that? You know, I do not project. I know the average,
I mean, let's just say a thousand, somewhere in there. But you'd never know. Growing weed,
you can look at my stuff right now, it's the most beautiful greenhouses. But the growing part's
easy part. Once those buds start growing, once they start swelling, all of a sudden...
How those Aurora greenhouse projections going? Yeah, exactly. All of a sudden, there's
all of a sudden, there's a fucking storm hits. Like, let's say last year, all of a sudden,
there's a storm. Oh, shit, beautiful buds start molding. Or all of a sudden, you have aphids or
russet mites. Or, you know, we, as farmers, we're dealing with all kinds of shit that nobody out
there knows. Oh, your weed's good, your weed's bad. They don't realize that there is tons with
all these new strains we're getting. These strains from different parts of the state
come new bugs, new diseases. And they fucking will, they'll hammer you, you know. I just had
a very close friend lose three beautiful greenhouses, had to throw them all out for
for sarium oil. I mean, this is, we're talking a silent killer. This is a spore you can't see.
This is, I mean, this is a basically a corona of weed. But it's actually right there, you know
what I'm saying? So, we go through a lot of shiz, farmers, when you want to... I would hope,
I hope to get, you know, average out of an 80 footer. I mean, you always want to get a pound
a foot. You want to get 80 pounds. I'd like to get 140 pounds of greenhouse, you know. I mean,
the max I usually do in a 20 by 80 is around 137 to 140. So, I mean, that's kind of, you know,
I know my max, I know what I want. But you can't, it's not about what you want in this game. You
just got to, you got to... We aren't working indoors. We aren't working with, you know,
CO2s and air conditioners. We're working with the climate or, you know, we're working with,
we're outside. There is, there's all kinds of stuff outside to ruin a farmer quick. So, we just
have to knock on wood, do our best and grow the best weed we can. And I mean, I, you know, I think
as of right now, it's looking good. And that's, you know, now I'm just waiting for these buds to
keep swelling and hope all these fucking weird genetics I'm running turn into some big old buds
and not some killer little purple dime-sized nug. You never know. Never know. So, of what you'll
harvest this year, what percentage of it do you think will go into your branded product versus
bulk wholesale? I mean, I definitely, I like to make at least, put at least half of it, you know.
Oh, look at that. Precious. Yeah, I like, I like half of it, you know, at least. And, you know,
it's stuff like, I don't know. I mean, I definitely look at what looks the best. I mean, I want the
best. I want somebody to open up my jar and look at that bud and be like, wow, that is a beautiful
weed, you know. I mean, I literally, I'll never forget when I, when that first big drop happened
and I had these people waiting for some of my weed forever, writing me on Instagram. And it was in
those Flo Connors jars. And then he sent me this picture. He opened it up and these little shitty
nurdles of weed were in his hand. And I was just, I wanted to drive to him and hand him a bag of
weed. Like, so basically I want the best. If my is not fast looking, wholesale that shit.
So what's funny is someone on the chat said, I tried Flo Connor once blueberry
muffins from Bryce line and it smoked like it was stored in a car for a year.
Oh, shit.
I don't know what to say about that because they do grow some good herb. But,
you know, if you overbuy your herb and it don't go out the door and it's in a little jar for a
long fucking time, well, it's probably, oh, excuse me, I got a daughter in there and I'm cussing away.
But yeah, I was just going to hear good. But yeah, no, I mean, you know, it's, it's kind of, that
comes out also to the distributor, you know, you hope a distributor is going to put a beautiful
nug in a jar and not put some just crappy little buds in a jar because these consumers are paying
a lot of money. And I'll tell you right now that money is not barely any of it's going to us. Okay.
You know, if there's so many middlemen, you know, the state, there's so many middlemen that, you
know, that I feel for how much the consumers have to pay for a quality product. It's not fair. And
it's not the growers reaping most of those benefits, not even probably 10% of it, honestly.
Chris, you're primarily focused on bulk now. So are you going to be bringing Jason's product to
this, his brand, his CPG brand product to market? Or are you going to stay focused on bulk? Like,
are you going to mix it up? Do a little of both? No, we're transitioning on where, like I said
before, we're transitioning a pretty good chunk of our energy back towards retail and the brand,
both Redwood Roots brand and a very limited select group of farmer brands like Jason's
Ridgeline. We just got, we're very honored at the opportunity to work on a very small level with the
farmer's cut, which is I think the Emerald Grown Co-ops. I believe it's their new brand, but Daniel
Stein from Bryson Forest Farms, Happy Days, Casey O'Neill, and then a down on farms up in the Grass
Valley area are the three first kind of flagship farms that are participating with the brand, but
it's a co-op grown. The packaging is just fucking beautiful. It's like a kind of like a not hand
scissor trend, but literally like hand leaf trimmed buds and a half ounce jar. And then
there's a couple other farm brands, Sun Love Farms. We got some pot of his in jars already.
Green Light Farms, 707. We got some of his herb already in some jars. We have a bunch of
conversations going that have been going now for quite some time. Seeds planted a year or two years
ago, even with some of these conversations, but some co-lab projects, some co-lab projects for
some new skews for Redwood Roots, some concentrate lines, some tincture lines,
health and wellness lines. We're going to be ramping up the brand, Redwood Roots brand, and
start starting to get to retail here over the course of the summer leading into next fall.
We're looking at our strategy is hone in on a very limited, small number, select group of shops that
are already representing brands like ours that are willing to pay the price. Let the consumers come
get the pot and then it will spread slowly and organically from those kind of retail locations.
And then we can spread out and go from there. But we feel like we're not going into every $12
wholesale eighth dispensary and trying to get into 600 shops. We're going to try to get into 50 shops
and they're all going to be high end, high priced shops that will pay the price to get these farmers
the money they deserve and let it grow slow and organic. We'll have some budget skews to get
into those other shops that don't want to pay what we want to pay the price that we want to
charge. So we'll have some budget ounce, half ounce, eighth, smalls, duff, trim, the whole pouch
idea. Everybody's going after the smalls shit now. What I see and what I'm hearing is
concentrates have lost their muster a little bit. Live resin is still the thing but there's
people like Raw Garden that are pushing it out for $10 a gram or some crazy shit. So there it's
that market is all over the place. It's super fucking difficult to put your finger on it
and even contemplate where it's going. Whereas all these other skews are a little more settled
at least for right now. So we're definitely going to go back after retail for sure and Jason's
new jars are the inspiration to get back at it. The booth at the Emerald Cup that we had and the
eight out of the 10 top winners are people we represent. 13 out of the top 20 winners are people
we represent. So to let that opportunity slide it would be fucking lunatic. So we got a bunch of
urban jars right after the cup and did a little launch locally and got into Sonoma area blah,
blah, blah. And then the reality is that bootstraps, grassroots, that's a real thing.
We don't just have a bunch of capital to do it all. We just don't. And our margins,
we're making a little bit of money selling bulk wholesale and again able to get these farmers
paid real quick and the money they're asking. And so that keeps the boat floating. We still
always believe that shelf space and the brand is the long game. And that wholesale and getting
farmers paid and just giving us the ability to survive this hurricane and hunker down.
Like Jason said, keep the brands relevant on some level. But I mean Ridgeline's not going to be in
every shop in the state, not ever. He doesn't grow enough pot. Even if he put his whole thousand
pounds in his jars, that's going to get into maybe a hundred shops if you want to service those
hundred shops all year. And once you get into a shop, you don't ever want to lose that shelf space.
So there's a lot of farmers with brands that think they're going to go do it and build it. And I
hope the best for them, but I don't think it's a good strategy for them at this point in time.
I think it's way too competitive. There's slotting fees still out there. There's no farmers
that can afford a slotting fee. Are you kidding me? So I still know that the brand is the long game,
but we also just need to keep our community alive and surviving these times. And so I
really believe that we're still in another wave of hunkering. Yeah, we're going to go to retail,
but we're not going big. It's not time to go big yet. It's just not. It's time to hunker and
fucking settle and hone in your processes and your procedures and your team and just get fucking
tight as fucking all hell. And then you can keep going to battle with these big fuckers,
because that's what it's really about. We got 10 people on our staff. We're buying new vans.
We're hiring more employees. We're not firing 40% of our staff and selling our vans.
And we're going to continue to grow slow and steady and pick the right partners and be super
fucking conscious and careful about what we do. This is our money. We're not playing with somebody
else's fucking money. This isn't R&D money out of some venture capitalist fund that's literally
$200,000 R&D money that could just fucking vanish and they don't give a fuck. This is our fucking
life. All of our lives, not just me, not just Jason. There's a community of people up where
we live and I'm not just Sohum. I'm not Sohum centric. There used to be this Sohum thing.
It's like we're all the same people in the Emerald Triangle. All of us are the same. We're
all trying to make it. We're all trying to survive doing what we love to do. We just want to stay
where we live, where we love. Now I'm rambling again. So Chris, one of the themes that's come
through in almost all the discussions we've had lately is that in the current environment,
smaller operations companies that are maybe a little more flexible are better able to survive
than the larger ones with more overhead. What do you think about that?
Well, like I said, we're hiring on staff and buying vans and expanding slowly. But Shirley and
I, all I hear from those bigger entities is implosion, implosion, implosion, left, right,
left, right, one after another. So I don't think those companies are all going to vanish,
those big guys. But I don't know. I think there could be, there's a big shakedown going on. I
don't, I mean, some of those companies are so big, they're just, they're gonna, somebody even
bigger than them is gonna buy them and just throw more money at it. And I mean, I don't know, man,
I feel like it's the proof is in the pudding about how to, you know, how to get where you're
trying to go. And it's just this market is too unsettled. It's no one still knows, anybody that
says that they know what's going to happen, I'll punch them in the throat because they're just
wrong. They are. Nobody knows what's gonna happen. So who in any business model, when they don't
know what's going to happen, unless they have money to throw away at it, is gonna just go crazy
big. And it's just not the right thing. And so we're very genuine and real about our grassroots
ness. And who knows, maybe we'll take investors. I'm not trying to say we'll never take an
investment or partner with a venture capitalist firm or some corporation. Patagonia is a pretty
cool corporation. You know what I mean? There's cool, there's good people doing good things out
there in the world with their business. So we're not in any hurry to go there. And it would
certainly have to be the right partner. But for right now, we're pretty not comfortable,
comfortably uncomfortable. Maybe it might be the right way to say it.
I'm very humbled. And I'm this is not me, but I'm really confident in our community.
And where we are today and what we're bringing to the table. I am I'm really confident. I think,
you know, we've been talking about interstate international forever, but
there's a generation in SoCal, which is the biggest market in the world, as we know,
that doesn't even know what Humboldt County is or where it's from, or the Emerald Triangle.
They'll never care. And they don't care. And those are not our people. The further away from
Humboldt County you get, the more Humboldt County has a name. Because you ask somebody in Australia,
you cannabis, you ask somebody in Spain, you ask somebody in fucking China,
they're gonna say Humboldt County. That's what they still say. And so
there's plenty of high end consumers across the world and interstate
that will pay us the price point and get you your money, Jason, and Kevin. And so it's slow,
steady. Let's sell the bulk. Let's get you paid. Let's keep the fucking boat floating.
Let's get the brands relevant. Let's be really slow and cautious and steady. And by the time
interstate international opens, we'll be sitting pretty and we'll be ready to fucking crush.
Well, so that gets to the Appalachian conversation, which is happening right now. So
for the three of you, what are your, I mean, obviously to say it's grown in Humboldt is one
thing, but that doesn't guarantee anything. So do the three of you put any weight on the
concept of Appalachian? There he is. Hey, Kevin.
What's up, boys? When Appalachians first really came into this concept, right? I used to have a
kid named Luke Bruna working for me who was a brilliant young dude. And he had done all this
extensive research on how Appalachians add value. And so when I got to talk to Senator McGuire at
my office and we had a conversation, he said, Hey, how do I help you in your area? And I said,
listen, for what we need long-term, we need some kind of certification that says organically
produced because USDA won't give it to us. And we need an Appalachian of origin so that we can
start to have brand value because our regions, like even not just Humboldt, but like Santa Cruz,
Grass Valley, Trinity, Mendo, Humboldt, we're all known for producing really high quality cannabis.
And it may not be important in California, but it sure the fuck is important outside of California.
And so I had this opportunity to speak to him. And that was really the initial conversation
about Appalachians with politicians and McGuire launched that shit. And so what happens next is
we get into the whole Appalachian program and the International Cannabis Farmers Association
starts to really go at it and they start trying to form all the pieces. And now we've had all these
different hearings that we had our moment to make comment. The origins council, which mean Coleman
got heavily involved in it because they're far more developed in their direction of how
they want to apply it. But for us, the long term, the value is priceless. And people argue about it
because they say no one cares. But that's not true, that people do care. And it's just that when you
look at your market as a neighborhood market, then that's not where we're selling. We're trying to
have a global market and Humboldt County has a global marketability, just like the other regions
I mentioned. And so for Jason and for Tolf, Jason's internationally recognized as a cultivator.
And the one thing I got to tell you too, is that what you got to remember is my mom was a
brilliant scientist and she said to me, there was a quote from Einstein, but it said that
intuition is the epitome of all genius, that it's the ultimate expression of genius.
That scientists have to study what people do to understand it, but they don't necessarily create
it. And so you're a really good representation of that. And many people like you in Humboldt,
where your career knowledgeable that transcends science, because ultimately, how the fuck did you
win back to back cups if you're not good? Right? So, I'm serious. I mean, I check out ops at $60
million, right? These guys driving these things into the fucking wall. And you got dudes in Humboldt
County and Trinity and Mendo, they're killing it. And that's important, but cultivators done
understand, especially young coming up cultivators, because you have to believe you can make an
impact. You have to believe you have a chance. You have to believe that within the world of
cannabis, you could be somebody too. Because our desire was always to live this life forever.
And as we go into this new phase of it, everything seems to be so doom and fucking gloom, because all
the cats that are coming in with buckets of money, but that doesn't mean that the customer wants the
product. And so, appellations are things that protect brand value. And like Toph was saying,
none of us, I'm only 20,000 square feet, right? So, I'll never put enough jars in enough store
to be in other stores where I'm at, but I never intended to. I wanted to be able to put the jars
in the places where they were most desired. And I wanted people to be able to appreciate that
product. And as a group, we're under an umbrella, we're Humboldt County farmers,
and our individual appellations will help dictate expression to the consumer of saying,
hey, Gellman's shit that he chooses comes out this way, we like it. And Toph has other farmers
that he grabs from. Kev's stuff does this. It'll become a recognition. Like all things are, people
just don't walk around blindly. They do in modern cannabis, because they haven't had any time
to be able to practice playing and buying in these legal markets. But as time goes on at well,
and you're 40, I'm 54, but none of this stuff is really for me. My time was in 40 years prior,
where I was in the paint. This is for my kids. So, it's easy for me to do this shit now, because
I know what I'm doing it for. I'm doing it specifically to further my region, further my
crew, further my children. And that's the part that appellations has the value. And it's the
part that cultivators have to understand that Humboldt County, Mendo, Trinity, these are regions
where people have been doing this multi-generationally. And they have a field for the product that science
has to understand. It doesn't mean that a premium agronomist isn't a brilliant guy, and they don't
do phenomenal work. But you have to understand that art and science are separate, and that art's art.
And so, what you see is a lot of art. And that's where this appellation stuff comes into play.
And before I forget, too, when we were talking about trends and heritage strains, you got to
remember that the cats that are buying herb now didn't smoke cigarettes. They smoked vape pens.
So, they're flavor addicted. And so, their introduction to consumption of smokables
was flavored vape pens. That never happened in the whole history of dope smoking. Tobacco and forms of
tobacco with the interconnection between smoke, right? So, this group that comes in now is all
vape pen. So, what they want is flavors, because that's what they know. And then, as the
trend goes by, we'll be able to reintroduce them to the earthy things that were pot, when we used
to just grow herb. But until this, they get saturated with their desires being fulfilled
to make them happy with what they consume in a vape pen. That's what's going to be the trend,
because all the fruits, all the citruses, all that shit, all the stuff coming from oil, that changed
people's profile of what they wanted to smoke and weed, because it was so fucking intense in the
mouth that they became disappointed in flour. And so, they had to start steering the profiles in the
flour into that expression to get the customers to come back into flour. But that's a trend.
That'll turn around over time too. And that's why it's important to bank varieties, where you got
to hold the genetics so that you can go reintroduce them into the market when it comes time. But right
now, like I used you as an example the other day about heritage strains in a speech where I was
like, look, if people gave a fuck now, how can Jason killed it with the white rugs, right? Why did
that win when it was heritage people judging it? So, there were people that, you know, Swamy judging
it. And Swamy's 70 fucking seven, right? Which is his birthday. He smoked about as much herb as
anyone on earth. And he was a really emphatic, you know, champion of your variety. Because he said,
hey, the quality was just fucking superlative. That's the important part, is that trends and
shit change. The regional influence has an impact. And us as a cultural influence has an impact.
And all the regions around California and for me, anywhere in the United States and globally,
if your area produces something of quality, and the people are minded to produce something of
quality, take advantage of what we did here in California with the Appalachians and start to
protect your brand for globalization. Because ultimately, it's going to have a value. And if
you get your hands into it before someone makes it impossible to, you do better on a community level.
And that's what we need is because we are a community. That's the thing is all these regions,
people know each other. You've worked off a handshake for years. And almost everybody I know
handles a couple hundred million fucking dollars in cash that ran through their fingers over the
course of their hustle and career. So, when I talk to these guys in the modern world about money and
business, I look at them and I'm like, look, you have a fucking ATM card in your pocket. You didn't
know cash looks like. So, it makes it hard to have a conversation that makes sense because they look
at all of us like we're from fucking Stone Age. But we were actually really competent at the old
business and our understanding what people like in cannabis is pretty accurate still.
And that's the point. That's why it's nice to be on the show with you and Leon Tolf because I respect
both you guys because you're good dudes. And you're also about your shit and you're about
your community. And that's as real as it can fucking be.
So, do you think someone like Jason needs Appalachian to, I mean, Appalachian is kind
of more rigorous than obviously he's in Southern Humboldt or wherever someone's based. Like,
that filing cabinet behind Jason has CDFA. And then if he wants to do the organic comparable,
he'll have another filing cabinet for that. And then if he wants to be Appalachian,
origin control a Southern Humboldt specific region, he's going to have a third filing cabinet.
And how many, what's the square footage of your cultivation as a small,
as a not a raw garden sized operation?
How big you Jason?
Oh, 9,600 square feet.
Yeah.
It is.
It is worth it. It is worth it for you because if you take a look at how wine moves,
we put wine in the right market, it's worth five times more than it is in a regular market. So,
stuff coming out of Napa sells for a hundred in Napa, 500 in China, because it's got a fucking
Appalachian on it. It's about the longterm. And the thing is that we're in the beginning of a
process that will go on forever. And so I wish that I was younger so I could like ride this
shit now, but I know that I'm doing it for my kids so that when my children are older,
they have a farm that has a specific impact because ultimately indoor is so similar, even
though there's, and I argued about Appalachians for indoor because you want all cultivators to
have a chance to benefit, but ultimately the outdoor expression in his situation, and then
his hand on it combined with genetics is his thing. And if he was the same as everyone else,
so why does he keep on fucking winning? So it's one of those things where the end result answers
the question. It says that he's doing something different because he's running something that
other people have that cut, other people use that dirt, other people use that shit,
but his environment coupled up with him and the genetics and his choices and how he operates,
makes something that's absolutely exquisite. That's the value.
So actually on that point, Chris, you work with how many farms?
Like I said, currently we've sold herb for about 120, 130 farmers this year so far.
So you smoke a lot of weed from a lot of farmers. So can you talk about something that maybe two
different farmers grow the same cut that you've noticed just is different based on where they're
based? Can you give a concrete example? Where they're based or their practices,
you know, not all the, there's farmers that are using each other's formulas and sharing
feeding regiments and whatnot. But at the end of the day, it's, I think both of those things
are coming into play. It's not just the Appalachian, but yeah. I mean, I don't even,
I can't even really think of any specific examples just off the top of my head, but I can
tell you that I've seen a lot of the same cuts from the same nurseries growing at different farms
that come out looking way different. They smell different. They look different. They smoke
different. So it's Appalachian I think comes into play, what it's grown in, what they were sprayed
with, what they're fed with, how they cured it, how long did they cure it, what temperature they
cured it at? How long has it been in a turkey bag? Was it in a turkey bag? Was it in a cardboard box?
Was it in, was it stored underground? Was it stored in a garage with no insulation at 70 degrees?
There's a million things that come into play with when it comes to what that consumer is tasting or
how they're feeling. So yeah, I've seen it all over the place for sure. It's super interesting.
It's very fascinating for sure. Yeah, so that tells me that Appalachian is going to be really
difficult, which we know it's going to be. It is. And then it's going to be really localized and
really specific. So Kevin, how do you think it's going to work out? What do you think it's going
to look like on the ground at the end of the day? We don't have the final regs in play,
but the bottom line is that if you're, because what Chris was talking about, that's all part of
Appalachian too. Appalachian is location, process, and we're part of the process, but it's process,
genetics, and location. And process is all those things we talked about. So say you're in a region
and what we're saying is that our curing process is longer, where we take more time, we make sure
the plant, the product after cutting never goes over 65 degrees so we don't flare off any monos
and we don't oxidize the product. That's holding stability. We talk about the speed that it moves
through the system and how it's never transferred unless it's preserved in quality. That's the
stuff that we learned from all these other countries that did Appalachians, where they
figured out how to refine the process until it was absolutely rock tight for them. And it doesn't
mean that everyone is going to get paid from it, but what it does is it creates the upper shelf.
You have to have the upper shelf because the higher the upper shelf, it brings every other
shelf up below it. But if the top shelf is 10 bucks, you're fucked if you're down below that.
But if the top shelf is 50 bucks, then there's some room and what it does, it starts to allow
you to create exquisite markets and then normalized markets and then bulk markets because
everybody deserves good grass to smoke. But when you're talking about work that required an ungodly
amount of fucking labor, you're selling a Maserati, you're not selling a Honda. They're different.
Honda is a beautiful car too, but Gunther didn't stitch the leather seat in it. So when it comes
to us with the Appalachian, how it rolls out is what I like about it is that they're
actually taking their time and the groups are putting arguments together that are trying to
lessen the fees so that it's not so expensive to begin one and it's not so expensive to change one.
And that we're creating variability in the genetics that we're using so that you're not
tied into a specific thing because why you had the data from the monks. So remember I sent you
an email where I laid this whole thing out. I've been studying this shit for years and I'm not an
Appalachian expert, but what I care about is how do you take their ideas and use it to assist us
in what we're doing and not follow it verbatim because cannabis is not wine. So it has to have
its own criterias and the idea that it's something that brings value to regions that have historical
relevance and that the impact is genuine and it's like I said it creates the upper shelf
and it allows you to start to validate outdoor cannabis in a way that's needed because we know
from consumption point of view that the thickest, richest, greasiest shit is coming from outdoor.
So indoor is a smoother and it is usually because of that diurnal swing and temp and the fact that
they stabilize methodology and if you're running it as a organic indoor you're getting a really
premium product but if it's regular salt grown it's very similar and so you don't have these
subtleties and nuances as much. The cultivator themself adds influence but not like the specific
regions within California that add influence and I think that once you start to create this as long
as it's not too onus on the operator where it's too much paperwork and too much money
then over the course of the next 15-20 years what you've done is you started to first
legitimatize cannabis as an ultra craft product to fit in all the echelons of all the other craft
products because everyone's consuming it but now you just have to call it that and then what it
does is it starts to create the value for all the small farmer over time as long as we can hold our
properties like that's the hard part for us is how do you maintain the land and how do you maintain
the family integrity to get to that point where we're going to get paid and we weren't paid before
now we're going through this transition and we're still actually okay. I'm feeding my kids, I'm
not rolling in the fucking paper like I used to but I'm also happier than I've been in a long time
because I know I get to go run the farm so like there's a beauty to being legal in a way that
it's not about you man it wasn't about me tripping on the game it was that I looked at my kids and
realized that by the time they get older our whole life will be gone and so what do we do and so to me
the appellation is the key to move this forward and if we just study how they came about it was
wine where the monks were the ones that figured out the best processes and they figured out the
best locations because they were funded by the church so they didn't have to get paid making wine
they had to have it for mass so everything that we have on great data is really from the Franciscans
and so they figured out where everything grew best and how it grew best and what was the impact of
the soil and the air and the environment and the elevation on that grapevine we don't have that
amount of data we're beginning it and that's that's the point is that it has to just be flexible
enough to let you get involved without too much money flexible rules to begin so that it's not
too exclusionary from the beginning and then have an ability over time to adjust and refine so that
fits the needs of the farming community and the customer and now you got some real shit
so isn't it that like Jason has that information but innately like yes he has it intuitively
intuition right intuition which is it which remember I went to Russia with my son right
my son's a world-class weightlifter so I get invited to Russia to go to the Russian sports
institute to get him studied and I'm at the sports institute the fucking smartest sports
scientist in the world and they're filming this athlete I said what are you filming him for
he goes we're trying to understand what he does so that we can explain to other people how they
should do it and I said you can't create that and they said no we can never create
what we do is we analyze research determine how they did it and try to get someone else to copy
because ultimately creation is creation and that's the art and that's really what I think like Jason
and a lot of the guys Chris worked with and in Chris's own situation he's intuitive he's an
intuitive hustler because that's he's building his business by himself so that's intuition and
that's I think it's imperative to put that out because all young cultivators all young artisans
and all crafts have to realize that if you feel like you got a skill and when you touch it it's
genuine chase that shit because that's your brain and your body fucking tied into your spirit and
your body fucking tied into your spirit and that's where wonder comes out and that kind of stuff it
it it's valuable to him because his location and his ability and his choices make that value
so that what it does it allows his two kids down the road to be able to have real estate
that has a value so that they have security they have heritage we don't we don't pass anything down
anymore in society nobody's passing skill sets from generation to generation and Appalachians
you look at these farms in in Italy in France and stuff you're talking 400 years of people
passing a farm down do you know what the most profitable fucking business on earth is per person
is a winery in France and they're generating off of 600 acres over a billion dollars with like 125
people that's the that's the most balling ass lucrative business on the planet for that number
of people working it so when someone says this shit doesn't have a value at that upper extreme
it most definitely does and we may not have the ability to produce 600 acres in that form but in
our niche markets we do and once you start to get the public to understand what's produced they can
start to put in orders and you have pre-buys you even have auctions on the batches so that when you
have a vintage year when the when the when the assessors come in and say these are primo crops
you start to get bids i don't think anybody has any idea what pops really worth people are talking
about two dollar grass and i'm like you are in the wrong fucking business you're not selling timex
watches we're selling rolex watches so just quickly uh i asked if people have questions and
it exploded so let me start catching up with these questions but the the one that everyone wants an
answer to is uh kevin so everyone's basically asking can you ask kevin if his skunk projects
is still in the works it is it is it's still in the works and i i spoke about it a couple times
what i did is i i had gotten uh ill a couple years back and i just didn't expect that the the
i was like i was in a coma but i didn't expect that it was going to fuck me up so badly and slow
me down and i couldn't really do i could go to work but i couldn't do all my extracurricular
projects and by the time i kind of got healed back like this was two years ago so two i feel
great now but man it was like i had aged like a hundred fucking years and i couldn't move the
project forward i just sat with all the material and i kept everything alive but by the time i get
back to being healthy i'm in a new business model with my operation and so what i did is i took all
the genetics all the seed stock all the parental stock and i licensed it to another company that
i'm connected to so that i can have them do the actual sifting work and breeding on it and then
i can go in and help them with selection which company is that what's that which company don't
you want to know and so what it does it allows me to be able to utilize other operations that
are larger to do the sifting and the hunting but otherwise it was going to have to keep sitting on
the weight and i thought i was going to get to use the farm but when you start to run your numbers on
the farm and you find out how much you make really working on the farm you realize that every square
foot of your farm has to be operational so all the way i behaved for decades which was r and d all
over the place and testing shit and running shit once we get into this new system it's a fucking
tracking nightmare and it's also a financially impossible on your farm to play hunt and chase
when you're having to tag and identify every one of these plants and have them batched and
it's a fucking nightmare and so i just said hang on so it's not going anywhere and i'm not tripping
because ultimately i wasn't trying to be first to the market i just knew that i could access
material that i had myself and i knew that when i threw some feelers out into the world to see if
did anybody have any stock from the late 70s i was able to get it when we tried to open those seeds
up a couple years ago the technology wasn't refined enough and so we opened them government
pot we still didn't get them to extend so now the hormonal basis is better and i know we're going to
be able to do some good embryo rescue on and start to pull some of this old stock that i acquired
because it wasn't just to hunt the you know the roadkill everybody's obsessed with roadkill but
like it was to hunt an era because like when i got to california in when i get california 87
that was this there was just so much good pot and it was all coming from all over the place but it
was just rich and diverse and interesting and it's it's my roots that's my heritage strains
and so that was the whole purpose of the project was to pull this stuff out and it'll happen
but legalization kind of slowed down the ability to use the tools like i used to use and then i
unfortunately um got really ill and almost fucking died in the hospital so it's it's it's there it's
just not being able to be focused on the forefront right now i think everyone was happy with that
answer so getting back to what we're just talking about with appellations or relevant to appellations
for all three of you so this is from don jose how long does it take to adjust a strain to a specific
area environment so jason can you talk about some genetics you've run and maybe something you've
noticed uh like three years into running something versus the first year of running that
um well i don't know i'm just blown away with all the stuff kevin's saying i was just listening to
that um i can't i can't just interrupt that one second because i wanted to go back to where he's
just talking about the r and d and you know me and my dad we love you know cross pollinating
making strains i mean it's one of our favorite things to do together and i have some you know
amazing genetics i've took the green lantern i've crossed it into these og1 these strains these
ice cream cake strains um other fruity strains and i want to grow them all i mean i've even
popped a bunch of the seeds and now i'm sitting there going you know where do i put them you know
i can only plant six six plants for my personal so you know like you said it's like there's so
much out there we want to try but you almost have to leave it for those people that are dedicating
their full space to that um and then i wanted to go to the appellations real quick just because
i felt like i've been in appellation forever as a kid from humble who's you know i've been
lucky enough to travel a good amount everywhere i've ever gone if i were you know where you're
from humble county oh you grow wheat i mean that's all i've been told my whole life and so
you know when you know i've been offered honestly by places in santa barbara you know to grow
ridgeline well hey we'll do a few acres of light depth for you you know and i'm like no i mean i
want humble county on my brand you know where i'm from i don't want you know somebody to buy my smoke
that's grown in santa barbara or you know selenius or wherever in another another area so
i feel like the appellation thing is pretty real and like i said i feel like we already are in our
appellation and i want humble county to be on every package you know produced in humble county that i
sent out there to consumers getting back to the question you asked that's a hard one um
i mean i guess i'm figuring out right now i'm growing a bunch of strains that i've personally
only seen indoor you know i've only seen that so i'm gonna know a lot more i mean hopefully we get
back to this after this first you know season probably or this first round you know late july
and i'll know what these strains are doing i feel like if you are uh you know a good grower you know
what you're doing you're gonna grow good herb no matter what but you know like i said every strain
is completely different and you you do have to learn a strain you have to learn its tendencies
um some mold some grow way faster than others um some like more nitrogen so you know they all are
different um i don't know a specific strain i couldn't really put my finger on that um
yeah i don't know you know it was easier before climate change started becoming more aggressive
because like what don carlos is asking is it's like how long does it take for the for the plant
to acclimatize to a region because epigenetically the plant is plastic in its genome which means it
can subtly adjust subtly gently adjust over time to fit the environment better because it's an
organism that wants to survive just like your your body is a plastic living um body that the
genes can modify and move so that you're able to constantly pick up information and that way you
pass that information downstream so when people talk about breeding projects you know you're
looking for a large chunk of time because every year that you bred you chose the best shit that
survived that season so it picked up the genetic information of survivability for each one of those
years and when you have a gene pool you know within the gene pool you have something that's
going to make it and live and it used to be like just even a few years back remember we had the
drought right so there was like five or six years where you weren't getting rain until like fucking
December in Humboldt and so anybody that was doing developmental work during that time for
Humboldt County built things that finished way later than they should and now you're going into
a situation where we're getting rain again come November or you should get it back in and the
development of things that went along that time frame are no longer applicable so I think what
it comes down to is if you're trying to develop stability and align in an area it's really a
measure of time from swings so you need to take a look at what you're working at now in terms of
environmentally then go back x amount of years to when you began and you'd be able to get an idea of
what did you do your development in environmentally and I don't so I don't think there's a set answer
of like you know three runs and it's acclimated 72 generations of breeding and it's good it's
really about selection and desire for the market combined with what worked environmentally
it's a lot of work being a breeder too man it's oh hey it takes so much time I mean I guess if you
want to take plants and throw them indoor and make them do their thing quick but I mean it's
you know I it for me I it's a year you know every time oh that strain is okay well next year we'll
see how this one is and like a year that super girl that my dad has you know it's I don't even
know it has train wreck in it he's been doing it since you know we were all grown train wreck so
what is that 15 20 years ago and now he has it we're finishing you know at the end of August
early September you know so just like you say but it's not really a strain it's more of us
evolving the strain you know with the climate like you say so it's it's uh yeah it's that's a lot of
work that's why it's nice you know I mean I I that's one of my favorite things to do is you know
breed is is being a breeder but now like you said we have to we have our square footage and
the more strains you put in the greenhouse with all the metric and all the paperwork
it's a headache it's a pain in the nightmare yeah it's a nightmare and batch testing oh it's gnarly
but that's why you know kind of I want to see what strains are going to come out the best in our area
so yes I'm taking a risk right now growing so many different strains like we know you know a lot of
strength I'm growing they've proven themselves indoor time and time again I guarantee I could
probably I guess I can't guarantee that because we don't know their indoor strains but I know I'm
gonna grow them pretty damn good and we will see if they don't come out good we won't grow them
again we don't know what they're gonna how they're gonna react in this climate we have
you know today today is 85 yesterday was 100 tomorrow is 65 and we're gonna get an inch of
rain so you know this is an indoor facility in Arizona you know this isn't an indoor facility
anyway this is good. Is the the kind of global warming weather stuff going on really affecting
you guys right now like is it just all over the place in terms of like you you used to have
predictability I mean obviously you'd have something happen in a season that was unexpected
but you had expectations it seems like now you just don't know what to expect every single year
no not at all I mean really we grew full-term plants we grew in the summer full-term we grew
indoor in the winter and yeah you know depths really only came around I don't know what do
you think 10 years ago I mean really fully started hitting so yeah I mean that was just kind of the
way what was that 20 20 years ago okay I'm fine but I'm saying it's like you know that was that
was our life is this we would just always it was full-term plants we'd grow all summer long
and then the winter comes you'd go inside so yeah it's that the weather is completely
unpredictable you know the almanac's on it said it's gonna be a wetter May but you know we did
like I said last year we could have got a whole nother running it didn't rain forever it was you
know we were into October there's no rain you know I mean the year before we had a gnarliest storm
and we had weed molding everywhere so you know working with the climate is a whole different game
but at the same time working with the sun and the environment weed is I mean it's way better I
guarantee it's you know it's getting the THC is gonna be higher it's I mean just everything about
sun-grown weed is better I mean so I just want to say that as a consumer as an a patient which
is always how I'm experiencing these conversations what I want to hear in order to make that bridge
be a successful one to get from here to there so everyone survives and they're there is what I've
heard today I can't even begin to tell you that Jason in particular because you're here is able
to integrate everything all this f*****g s**t you have to go through with the regulations and the
metric and this integrate that into what you've been doing traditional and otherwise and now legal
and still maintain the integrity of your process as a consumer who does care that the product is
clean and only cares about a future that has craft cannabis in it right I like all cannabis
but that's the future that matters right and the business model is there if you can make the bridge
right direct to consumer and all of that that's what I want to hear that's exactly what I wanted
to hear that you're able to maintain that so I just want to put that out there. I mean like Chris
said slow and steady wins the race you know there's been there's so many people moving in and
they want to just throw tons of money and build out and do all this crazy stuff and they have no
idea about growing in you know and the elements and the climates and you know I'm not trying to go
crazy I just keep focusing on what I'm doing and you know I'm proud of what I do you know
there's always gonna be Coors and Bud, Budweiser, Coors Light, Budweiser but then when I drove
through Sonoma a few months back and there's this line at this brewery I said you know what's that
line for asked my sister and she said you know Piney Beer I'm like holy shit you know there's a
line a mile down the block and you know so I mean what I'm getting at is you're always gonna be able
to buy that that random shit and you know it's still gonna get you high it's you know but is it
gonna make you feel good is it you know clear nice thoughts are you gonna be able to you know
go out and smoke a nice joint at the end of the evening and just feel feel you can feel the
difference of a nice fresh outdoor but I mean some people some people like to drink Opus One some
people like to drink Francia there you go yeah and my feeling about this is selfish man you've got
the knowledge you have the genetics you have the things we want to survive yeah we're blessed man
I'll tell you what you know I mean especially with this whole lockdown thing we got people
tuning in from around the world there are a lot of people saying it's 9 a.m. and they're waking
and baking watching this and they appreciate it you can smoke a joint right after this I'll tell
you what you can smoke it right now right now so I wasn't driving a van full of pot so would I
uh you didn't have a crying baby in the background so Cipher 9 asked any experience with re-vegging
Kevin have you done a lot of re-vegging
I've done a lot of re-vegging and what you're gonna find is the more determinant the plant
wants to flower the harder it is to pull it back and so determinate to flower is always upper
latitude plant so stuff that's equatorial stuff this long flower and hazes and Cambodians and
shit like that that'll come back relatively easily because it's almost always in a semi-vegetative
state but if it's something like a broad leaf man that shit takes time and so what I would do for
people is I'd go up to the hill and they'd say look we threw this out as a seed this fucking
plant supernatural we don't know what to do with it and so instead of trying to clone the flowers
which works sometimes but a lot of times you end up rotting it in the tray and it doesn't work
you take like you know 40 of the canopy off and then I dig up the plant put it in a burlap
fucking bag like a tree and then you bring it into a indoor and set that thing up under 24
hour light because you have to be able to get that hormonal reversal to go back into juvenility
and all you got to do is as it dries out just don't overly feed it with heavy nitrogen just
enough so that it's in a positive so you're if you're if you were driving it through a pk
push and it finished flower you need to reset that and go back into a higher nitrogen level
and be patient and I've had plants take up to almost five and a half months to revege
and people would come in they see this ugliest looking thing you ever seen in your life because
all the buds are rotten off basically and dry and falling out and then all the new helicopters
come out and so the point is that if it's valuable enough take your time and be patient
it doesn't happen overnight if it wants to turn quickly you can do it in a month and you can pull
a cut off but like I said I had a I had a killer plant I got out of somebody from another location
that was phenomenal and I held it for him but it took me over five months to revege it
so I'd rather keep copies of the plants that I'm testing in clonal form to make it easy but
sometimes you know you just one of them things you run a plant it turns out to be the best thing
you ever seen in your life don't fucking smoke it take the top 40 off the rest of the plant dig it
up with the shovel and get two or three of your friends to put it into a root bag and then tie
it up like a tree and bring that shit into a building and set it up it's worth the time because
ultimately like with with what we're doing all of us have seen herb that's so much better than
Eddie the herb was smoking right now we don't have it anymore we don't have it a lot of these
newer strains are so unstable that you know I mean the seed strains we have you know get away
quicker but a lot of these other ones there's a little light showing or just a little weather
change all of a sudden they'll hurt me out on you I mean they're not they're unstable man you know
they're not proven but revege is something that you can do just be patient and 24-hour light
not excessive food levels just normal let it slowly come back over time because really what
you have to do is go through hormonal change yeah hormonal shift is the is the key part you
want to get they get it back to come from senescence to juvenility following up on
on what Kevin was talking about about future consumers being like coming from the vape world
does that mean that maybe they might be like into sauces and hash and concentrates things like that
so I'm curious Jason are you do you do you grow for hash for other stuff is that a part of what
you're doing as well well you know if I definitely did some fresh frozen last year
it was amazing I used some of my smalls this year we did some sauce
through Humboldt brand that turned out really really good I definitely don't grow for that
you know I like I said I take a little amount you know maybe to enter the emerald cup maybe so I
could actually have some personal smoke and for you know me and my friends or whatnot but uh
you know like I said the smalls could do anything they're versatile you don't get that much for them
and I definitely don't want them going to my jars so uh yeah I don't go for it but I definitely I
enjoy you know I'm good with about one dab in the evening you know right before dinner I'm not I'm
not one to just hit them all the time I like smoking joints man and honestly so here's my
question are you are you as versatile in your business model as you are in your cultivation
for instance if you attract more people to your brand by having other products out there and
eventually they make their way to your flower which is where you want them to be isn't that
a good thing is is like is that a nod we have to make to where the markets go it's amazing it's
it's exactly where I want to be if I have amazing fresh frozen or a sauce maker or somebody that
wants to do a collaboration with me I'm down with it you know I'm open with collaborations because
I grow good weed I have no idea how to how to make oil sauce fresh frozen you know I'm old
school hash you know I could make hash you know I don't know that so and I don't pretend to um
yeah I'm open to any any type I believe it definitely helps a brand to have multiple
products come out of what you grow yes go ahead the the the only way that you can hold a product
to showcase a season is in a concentrate form because flower breaks down just due to the fact
that it's got too much organic matter right and so a small amount I think of stuff that we make
should always go into some form of concentrate via a traditional hash but even if it's in a
bho extract where it was diamond and sauce that should have just sugar up over time but if it's
held cold and you open a three four year jar up it still reaps and so I think that that's the only
way that you can kind of take people back to let them see what the seasons were like so that you
get to show them this this this progression of time and that's what that's what's cool about
it about holding concentrate form is that you you just get to kind of go back in time and say man
2017 was a fucking epic year look at the look at the oil the herbs long gone but we still have some
oil left and we'll break one out of the freezer in the freezer yeah you know I know you do we all
and we go no this was the good hash and it skins up and when you cut it it's fresh and that was
like with Frenchy you know he was always saying that's the shake yeah yeah shake the can because
you can you can hold that for time and I think that that's something that that it's important
too because otherwise nobody gets to see what the farm did in the years prior and you can kind of
help people understand the changes in environment and in your development as a cultivator by what
the product smokes like in that oil form it's it's it's it's not it doesn't have to be so
fucking difficult because ultimately we're all smokers who want to share good smoke with other
smokers so it isn't like we're disconnected from the dope game we're born in the fucking dope game
and what we want to do is have you embrace it with us you know what I mean now that we're
not fucking criminals and being persecuted and hung up on the fucking street it's a lot better
because now for the first time you could really get people to get caught up in let's enjoy good
pot together it's not anybody smarter or better it's just that we're all fucking humans who have
that commonality so let's talk pricing a bunch of people were asking if you guys are liking uh
it seems like prices are going back up so a couple questions um like we talked to chia rodriguez uh
from arcana flower or mendocino generations and she was talking about how two years ago everybody
was calling her for trim because they wanted to turn it into extract and nobody really cared
about the flower now she gets no calls for trim they're all for flower um so i guess let's start
with like jason uh yeah well so so you're selling bulk so obviously like tell us where prices have
been going for flower and trim and then jason you do have what are you doing with all the extra like
the trim from your farm is that worth anything right now or what's kind of your model for
using the whole animal bones and all well i chia's on point 100 percent uh i would say it's more like
a year ago every phone call that i got where i need 10 000 pounds of trim a week i need 10 000
pounds of trim a week all day every day every phone call those same people including humboldt
county manufacturers they were manufacturing centric and distillate centric are all now think
they're flower distributors they don't want they don't even they don't even call the manufacturers
don't call me for trim they call me for flower so it is completely swapped around in all those big
farms in central cali central coast santa bar a lot of that pot's going to
manufacturers so that market is saturated more than flower it is brutal
they can't sell the flower they can't sell their flowers so fucked up they have to send the flower
to concentrate it's so bulk that's right it's straight up big brands brother yeah you can take
any shit you take any shitty weed you turn into oil you can put some bullshit turps in there and
then some person be like whoa that tastes like fucking candy it's still just shitty weed you
know some of the big brands in the state that have been shopping in that in those areas that we were
just discussing are hollering at us hard and they want to fill their jars with our herb and they'll
pay and it's transitioning as we speak today in this moment prices for trim are we're selling trim
for averaging probably a hundred dollars a pound still today it went down and then it kind of got
went back up a little bit it was in the 50 60 mark about six months ago and now it's back up into the
80 to 120 probably averaging about 100 for us i don't know what's going on out there for other
people but that's what's that's what i see all day every day uh we're selling flower nut to the
farmer right now between 1000 and 15 this depends on what it is and where it's grown and quality and
all and who it's going to um i see it i see it the price actually continuing to go up for the next 30
days i think we might see a 16 we might see an 18 i think come july august it's gonna get back down
into where we're at currently today and then i think you know fall is going to be what it is
we'll be back down into the 800 to 1000 category and we're not going to sell pot at that price
unless the farmer makes us what when was the last time you saw 1800 yeah last time you saw 1800
we're talking depths we're talking indoors are we talking definitely yeah i don't know it's been a
minute um you know it's probably shit i don't know five years i can't even i can't tell you the
prices have been so all over the board and you know who would have thought a pandemic would all
of a sudden make the prices go up right all of a sudden we have a everybody wants to chill at home
and smoke weed and you know i i'm doing the same thing so i fully understand um i uh what you're
asking me before too you know with the trim is yeah we wanted to do something with everything we
have so yeah we want to sell all of it there was a time we used to throw shake right off the hill
it didn't matter and then all of a sudden it was worth a ton i mean like you said people wanted
shake nobody even wanted butt so uh you know i think there's a there's something for all of it
um definitely the littles they're versatile pre-rolls you know pre-rolls are great um
you know i definitely make sure to sell every bit we can i mean it'd be nice to make papers out of
the stems if i had the right people to do it i'd love to do that as well you know there's a lot of
good product i mean i was picking leaves the other day and i mean they were so big and juicy i was
i wanted to juice these leaves and uh you know i've never done that or i've never drank the
juice from them but it looks so great so yeah there's lots i could do with do you ever make
canegars no no what is that well it's been smoking it's they're rolling it it's cool looking but they
smoke like shit man i don't give a leaf you make a yeah you make a pot leaf cigar but the problem
is it doesn't fucking tobacco you put in the mouth no yeah you may have wet then you hard it hardens
and it forms it couldn't look any cooler but i've never had one that i enjoyed smoking very thin
right yeah yeah no i'm old traditional paper smoker i mean for pricing though right now like
because they've been squelching down on all the the hot operations street prices exploded and so
i mean i think runs moving at like 32 from indoor just you know a month or two ago i had someone
tell me 38.5 down in the city right now so i haven't heard those numbers in fucking years yeah
so what i know is that you're you're gonna see some changes in pricing and what what fucks us
in california is that there's not enough storefronts and too much large production
so it's an overproduction situation it doesn't reflect the reality of cannabis because we only
have you know 1,500 stores so when you open this shit back up but and now you have stores to move
bourbon to the pricing will i think rise up again but like chris just laid out he's seeing
the cycle right now and it's you guys know though kevin that there's some there's huge build outs
that i'm here oh mega huge build up so when all these giant build outs happen well that's
definitely gonna make the market you know kind of flying out a little bit but that's why appellations
humble our brands that's why we have to stay who we are because i mean those those big those big
build outs are still they're gonna grow what they're gonna grow they're gonna grow killer
coarselight weed you know yeah yeah it's gonna be it'll be great for them but we you know if we keep
educating the consumers and they know what we're growing you know and they know that we are they
sell they buy my weed it's gonna be great it's gonna be you know it's grown organically well
not only that the money i get you know i coach baseball i'm part of lots of you know things in
southern humble well this money helped my community go so it's not only what they're smoking it's
where that money's going and you know what that money's helping out it's helping out schools you
know we donate you go to the basketball gyms you see our farm names on the gyms you know so it's
it's a it's a lot more it's a big it's a big thing and that's what i feel this whole legal market not
only are my kids safe from having the house rated like that so many times as a child you know but
now my kids you know basketball team has ridgeline farms on the back you know i can put ridgeline
farms banners everywhere i could i've always me and my family have always been great you know
supporters of the community but now we could actually have our brands out there and it really
makes our children proud and you know like like kevin said you know i'm doing this for my kids
you know and that's really it i'm doing this for the community i want southern humble to thrive i
want the emerald triangle and roll a triangle to thrive you know but uh you know we we uh we use
humble county this is our heritage this is what we've been doing our whole life this is what our
family our parents our grandparents i mean this is you know this is the lot there's a lot bigger
picture going on right now and you know people like you peter you know put us out there i hate
things like these i wish i don't know because kevin is amazing speaker but why i'm doing this
is so the consumers can learn who we are and that we are real people and we're not just about money
we're about our families and our communities and we're about you know we giving the best herb
know the best herb you know to the and giving it to the the people
cheers oh yeah it's a beautiful daughter right there bud we love when kids and animals come on
so you got both right now so kevin
so so kevin you you planted this year right yeah yeah and i ran last year too i i was going to skip
the season because the the license ship was such a freak show and all of a sudden i pulled the
annual and and a company hit me up and said hey would you be would you be willing to run a run for
us so this year though i already have my my my annual renewed and so i'm and my farm's fully
ready all the soils been tilled all the cover crops have been put in and i'm just waiting to
go in the ground when this last of this little weather bumps and then i'm gonna run like i said
i just run a full term and for me that's that's just really because that's where i wanted to be
as an older guy i wanted to go back to what herb was to me when i was young so i've been through
the whole fucking game for as a grower i wanted to do an intense season and then have the rest of the
year not that i'm excited exactly it's gonna be a great year and and and are you growing for your
own brand are you gonna white label it or just sell it in bulk or what's the well i'll do two
things actually i'll i'll co-brand with the company so the the company will have me on their label for
their product because i'm growing the product from them and then i wanted to also grow something that
wasn't in their catalog for myself because you mean you're growing their genetics yeah i'm growing
their genetics and then i'll produce it they'll produce their product for them and then i'll get
recognition on the jar which are you allowed to say who that is yeah yeah it's for the cookies
okay so i'll also i'll do work for the cookies and it's a good contract and what it does it
allows me to be able to have surety on the business because it it i need the stability
to cover the actual business and then what i'll do is i'll take of that 20 000 square foot i'll
pull 4 000 square foot off and i'll do that myself and i have something that i really wanted to run
that just is an outlier freak and i just said you know this has to be produced just because i got a
seed in the market and then once i produce it i'll figure out how to move it into the world from there
but i just know that i need to grow it on the hill because the quality of flowers superlative and it's
got numbers that are ridiculous under your own brand name yeah i'll do it under my own brand name
so what's the brand name again what's the brand my brand is port royale okay so all right
is your store still open it's open right yeah yeah we were open and we just actually like i
think we just officially opened up the coffee shop the tourist area we opened up the whole thing
we got a smoke lounge going in uh this summer so we have a full outdoor lounge going in legal smoke
lounge and so we turn the store into a drive-in kind of so you have a built-in retail outlet for
your own brand i do i do but the thing is that and which is cool are you going to carry a ridge line
i'm not sure if we carry ridge
well no i don't i don't handle i don't handle anything i'm an i'm the owner of the store
but i don't handle any of the inner transactions i can refer you to the the buyer team yeah cam
always refers me to people he's another i gotta defer you man i try you know you know
it makes it it used to be a lot different because at one time we ran everything ourselves because
that's how the operations work but as you go forward with all this new shit it's just not
that way anymore and so the only thing i have full control over what i do is the farm and so
this is it'll be nice because i can do business that's business and then i can do something that
i want to produce myself i love the flower yeah trying to show off the flower yeah it's great
having them out of school and coronavirus may have been a nightmare for him in a lot of ways
but the happy kids in the house it's just been great we were at the river yesterday and we're
gonna probably go take off and hit the river tomorrow i got some cool blow-up shit we can go
down the rapids with but a lot of it is just as a producer you have to do things that that you know
will make money because you have bills to pay the the county charges me 20 000 whether i harvest the
buck or not the state charges me 14 000 whether i harvest the buck or not so that's 14 that's um
what's that 34 000 right there right then i got another 5k going out to like waterboard and all
this other shit so you're looking at like almost 40 grand coming out of your pocket if whether you
make a dollar and so 40 grand is almost taking home like 70 so if you make 70k you'll take home
around like 42 000 so that's a 70 000 a year job and the man wants the taxes boom they want that
money yeah you have to make sure you don't screw that up and so a small portion of the cannabis on
the canopy can be me so that i can kind of enjoy being myself and then the other part is good
business and i don't mind growing their varieties because the stuff they're putting out is highly
marketable and my business dealings with the company have been nothing but good you know i
have no complaints it's been straight normal solid business and that's what what i needed when i you
know got involved in this stuff so uh we just had a uh los angeles retailer on who's vertical
and also grows and has his own branded product on the shelves including his own and i hate to bring
up the dreaded t word taxes but he said the taxes in california are so fucked up that it makes more
economic sense now for him to bolt his own flower rather than put it on his own shelf and it sounds
like he's you're in the same boat yeah the retail the thing with the store is that stores give you
access to people if you if you're if you do a store if it's not in a geographical area where
you're getting phenomenal traffic you have to make it very streamlined so when i laid out my store
front it was designed to handle quick traffic through the facility and have minimal staffing
but intelligent people behind the counter and you know i mean like i think some of my favorite
stores i've ever been to is like dockside up in washington so dockside in washington is really
well done stores where they got a customer service level it's phenomenal and the the layouts are
incredible and the fucking experience is phenomenal and so i i got a chance to check out the dockside
operations and i was so impressed but i realized that they would not work for me at all here
because of what we're where we're at and what we're going through and so the store is something
that gives you access to the public it helps you understand what's moving through distro it's like a
window and but it's not where the the profit is it it pays for itself it pays for the investment
cost to build it it pays for the employees it creates an ability to have a license that's in
in continuum but you know for me being a farmer especially because i actually run my own farm
so i i consider myself the laborer so i get i get to pay myself labor and then i get to make
profit for my company and because i was always a a person who loved to grow pot being outside
for long hours in the sun i don't see it as a punishment so like you know for me i mean i'm a
blue collar new englander so like the work thing isn't a problem i actually like what i do a lot
i like it so much i've done it my whole fucking life so it's there's like a dual benefit where
like i get a good paycheck as a worker and i get to do what i love but the store is more a matter of
building supply chain components and it gives you a really good window but man for people that have
stores in areas that you know are going to be impacted by covet heavily in terms of financial
situations man i look i pity these poor people because you don't you don't want to see anybody
fail i don't take glee in seeing anyone get the shit kicked out of them really like i go you know
sometimes you might deserve it but if i celebrate it too much it means i'm fucked up and so i try
not to to get caught up in that and so what i know is that with us as operators each license has its
own pitfalls and they they all have a plus and a minus and you have to clearly identify what that
is before you get involved in it so that you can understand that if you're going to put that into
your portfolio it has to cover itself and it might not make money but it's a supply chain component
that lets you have a different type of strength in your business and i mean whoever would have
thought we had to do all this shit like really like the complexity that we're going through to
survive is mind-bending and it's people say well that's business but i'm like i've been in business
for a long time no other business you have to do this much weird shit you know what i mean it's crazy
so so with uh you said it was 20 000 square feet
and 16 is going to the cookies collaboration yeah roughly probably like 15 because i'm actually
gonna pull one of the benches out because i didn't get a chance to to do the work on that
lower bench to prep it like i was doing the others and i just said it i sometimes you have to uh make
sure when you're doing the labor that it's workable and it's not important to fill the whole canopy
always at the same time and that's where like the canadians best examples of canadians they got a
million square foot of greenhouse they should have ran like a hundred thousand square foot and instead
they ran a million square foot and they only could move 50 000 square feet so it's the same with what
we're doing is i'm filling up the quantity that i can control myself with a single worker and so
i'll so i got the 24 is going that way 16 could potentially go to the cookie but probably more
like 14 so i'll pull 2000 right out of the canopy this year and not run it because it when i started
laying out my time schedule on the work i realized that i'm not dialed in enough to cover another
2000 square foot of labor but but so with cookies are you running their genetics or your genetics
no their genetics remember i i have the nursery that supplies them so all of their all their
breeders feed the nursery i'm i'm involved with my old nursery is a new nursery but now it's a
single client nursery and it it it puts the genetics that the proprietary farms the farms
that catch the first release of the lines so there's the humble appellation group which is
farms in humble county that are going to work producing product for cookies and then other
farms within california that produce they all come get the genetics from us at the shop and so what
what we do is we just produce what's needed that would work well in our environment so that it
reflects well on the on the brand itself so it's not a bad deal as a cultivator because they don't
want to feed you shit that won't work they want to feed you stuff that works so that you have an
ability to put their product out and the stuff that they're doing on the indoor end is stunning
it's just that when you put it on the outside you know you get a fuller richer expression and
the steering of the choices are based off of because remember we have a test facility for
that stock too so the cookies test facility for outdoors behind the one log so we have a full
light that greenhouse and an outdoor next to the nursery that does the r&d for a lot of these
projects so i'm not involved in that in the sense of the r&d component other than come by and smoke
some of the weed the one log team is which isn't bad because you get caught up in too much shit you
drown time wise but the point is that it's a thought-out process because what they want to
be able to do is create the sun-grown lines around the state to highlight sun-grown production
and then to find the varieties that shine in sun-grown best and then let the things that
shine in indoor be best because to say that people don't like indoors to say that you'd be wrong
it it's desired by two different people and their education isn't to get people to leave
indoor and go to outdoor it's to let people know that there's various grades of cannabis
and that over time when you experience enough of it you'll be able to find your own balance
and what you desire and where it's grown or how it's grown but the point is to create the best
product in all the environments so that indoors well done mixed lights well done outdoors well done
good grass is good grass right so with with um have they guaranteed like we'll buy x
volume from you or is it kind of a more fluid relationship no it's it's what what the way you
work it out with this will be the way you work it out with any of these operations that provided you
material is that you'll um you'll produce the material and you'll give them an estimation of
how much you believe is going to come off your farm based off of your square footage and your
production methods and at the end of the season you do a quantification testing to find out are
you clean because before they take the product into the system so you do a pre-test pre-test
comes up it gives them an idea that you have no heavy metal issues you have no microbial issues
and no no no other banned substances in the product and then it also gives them a cannabinoid
level so they can get an idea you do an estimation of your yield and you can give it to them on since
i don't have my own processing facility what i do is i pass it on to a processor but i can tell them
i have x amount of bucked flour and they can do the calculations on what they normally average on
from bucked to finished so say i have 400 pounds bucked we might say that comes out to 260 pounds
finished that'll give them an idea broken up off your metric configuration tags because remember
this is all track and trace and then that product moves into the chain so as long as the products at
the quality that they want it moves and that's how it should be with cannabis like any ag product
where there's no such thing as you grow it for us we take it off your hands even if it's shit
so like that doesn't work like that because who would who would do that in business right so
there's always an incentive for the farmer to make sure they do a good job because this way the
product moves and if a brand is willing to work with you as a farmer it's your responsibility
as a farmer to make that brand look good regardless who it is i don't give a shit if it's the littlest
distributor to the to the biggest company as the farmer your obligation is to farm the damn
weed and do your best job and when we do that we do a good job and so i don't mind growing other
people's products and i know in the future as the appellations come in we'll start to stabilize what
we actually produce and run in these areas so that customers can get the same product a couple years
in a row my only problem with flipping varieties frequently is that you don't get the repeat buy
next year on the same product unless where's it coming from if it's not coming from you
and so i think that as we go forward and you have enough producers producing enough cannabis on the
bulk level we'll be able to go back to not having to chase the strain du jour and work with things
that shine on our property i only produce a thousand pounds that a thousand pounds moves
into the system and that's what i produce every year so it's like saying i'm going to produce a
thousand cases of wine that's what i produce that's just how it is and we can use other
agricultural models to understand how that works and it doesn't help us in a congested california
market but if i'm looking down the road it most fucking surely does because what i'm building is
a quality market because don't tell me people don't like nice shit i mean people can drink all
the fucking budweiser they want but i haven't had a can of that shit in a long time and i don't drink
a lot of beer so but if i want a beer i go get what i like and if i'm at someone's house and they
offer me a budweiser and i'm chilling i'll drink him too i'm not going to turn it down but the
point is you don't ever see me go to the store and buy a 12 pack of that shit so i know that if
and i'm not saying i'm every consumer but people kind of operate pretty similarly we just have to
create a a level of production quality that is seen by all our craft regions so that people start
to understand that craft herb is good and then they can start to find regions of products that
they like and things that shine in certain areas and the main point for all of us in production
sales manufacturing processing is to is to try to build a steady reliable business model that's
based off of paying the fucking people back that you took the product from just do the goddamn
business and that way what it does is everybody trusts each other because you've got 55 fucking
contracts but if i don't trust you i don't give a shit anymore i don't want to deal with you and
we really went back to what we used to do way back in the day where we kind of looked at each other
and said we're both here for the long term yeah we both fuck up we lose money yeah now we can do
business and that's something that resonates to the customer because what it says is we're here
for the fucking long term and we're willing to fight for that and that means we care it's not
it's not on a portfolio sheet if i have a weed farm you know i'm in weed business that's great
are you are you a dedicated producer are you like chris is a dedicated purveyor so he was a producer
but now he's a purveyor he looks to find the things that are quality to put into the market
jason's the creator of these things like the it's a chain without each person doing the best
doesn't work it hey kevin this can do you mind can i ask a question and just say fucking i don't
have the answer for you obviously if you if you can't answer but yeah yeah how do you how do you
and cookies determine what the price point is on your pot next year in that contract
you know it it a lot of it works off of you know the when you're when you're going through a supply
chain that with all the processes are controlled they know how much the product has to cost and
order for those touch points to make money through the chain for them too so you get an idea
and the whole point of like the appellation situation just like the farmer's reserve is to
bring up higher attention to a product it starts to allow you to have a little higher pricing for
the farmer because the actual untrimmed herb a little less trimmed and a bigger container
saves you money on packaging and trimming so the way you approach the the final piece has to be
backwards from the retail because ultimately people are saying pounds are going to go for 100
bucks and i'm like well it costs me 160 just to grow the fucking pound so how can i sell it for
100 bucks if it's 160 to grow it it's impossible i got fucking taxes the taxes are more than the
price of people quoting and i'm just like it's impossible the taxes dictate the price through
the chain and then the idea is to figure out how do we over time get our desirability up which what
you'll do is you'll create the desirability because you're collecting things from diverse groups that
are quality and pretty soon that becomes your label where people come to you for a better quality
product and so because of that you'll be able to put a premium across the board on it that's
reasonable for the customer but also gives another point to everyone downstream from you
which then gives you long-term shit if you and i making money we do business forever
it's when we start having no money that we start not doing business thank you so much that makes
all the sense in the world it's pretty much like reverse engineering yeah you got to go backwards
yep yep i get it thank you easy so so i think we'll close on that because uh i gotta deal with
dinner um but uh we we still have like 150 people tuned in uh monday night we're gonna have an
aquaponics section session with uh steve raisner potent ponics leading the discussion uh all of our
uh guests today will be receiving a grassroots fabric pots living soil raised bed so you guys
have to send me your uh mailing addresses and uh on that note everybody good job tyler yeah
i was talking to tyler earlier today i was like can i give away some raised beds he was like hell
yeah uh i love one yeah so everybody i appreciate it and uh have a good weekend
and buy and buy craft cannabis yeah jason it looks gorgeous out there
oh man yeah you want to see this is a give you a quick shot of southern humboldt right there
yeah
thank you guys so much thank you all right man all right chris chris
all right we are done
