All right, and we are live. Welcome everyone. We are talking cultivar
selection for the 2021 season. Thanks for joining us. And this is brought to you by
the Willow Creek Cannabis Alliance, and there is our Motley crew. Lindsay, do you
want to give a quick intro to the Alliance and what it's all about, and
then we'll get started? Absolutely. So the Willow Creek Cannabis Alliance has been
meeting for about two years. We're a group of farmers in northeastern Humboldt and
western Trinity County. We got together to really just start to integrate into
the community, the greater community, and support our cannabis community. And since
we formed a bunch of subcommittees, and we've been meeting almost every Monday,
and in the future we plan to do the Taste of Willow Creek, which has
historically been a wine event, but we want to really bring it into cannabis
and then highlight the region. And yeah, support the community, have support for
independent farmers, and work together. Excellent, thank you. So we have a crew of
breeders and cultivators, actually all of you are. So maybe, Kevin, you've done this
rodeo before. Do you want to loosely emcee the conversation and kick it off?
Yeah, we can get it going. I just want to say thanks to Lindsay first for inviting
us to participate in this roundtable. The reason why there's a crew of us
doing it is so you can get different perspectives on the same topic because
it's confusing, the markets aren't so clear, and you have individuals from
different backgrounds and stuff, so it should be a good show. And I know
everybody on the mic, so it should be fun, and Big Pete will do the direction, but
we're gonna get into a series of questions that Lindsay's crafted up, and
she can shoot them. And anybody that's in the audience that wants to shoot some
questions out, just shoot them over to Pete, and then they can send them out
because I can't check the screen at the same time, I just lose track of what I'm
doing. And we ought to be able to break up some ideas on what's going on for
farmers in terms of what's available and what to grow and what's going down. So
I'm Kevin Jodry, welcome to the show.
That was well done. So I think maybe just to kick off, do you guys want to talk
about kind of what you all saw in the 2020 season, what some of the trends
were, kind of cultivar-wise in the markets, and even up into the Washington
market where Josh is? Totally, you want to start? Well I was, I can comment on that, you
know, less specific about 2020, but more just kind of general thoughts that I as
was thinking about this conversation and realizing my way, how I've, you know,
lived my life in the cannabis, you know, world. I've always been a couple steps
ahead, not intentionally, but like, you know, when rosin came out, we were all
right on that. And the market wasn't ready to buy rosin until 2020, 2019, 2020.
And I guess just kind of the thought I wanted to convey is that as we are,
all of us are kind of way ahead in what the consumer is hitting on. And so
when we see these trends amongst our peer group, that it kind of hasn't taken
the time to trickle down, you know. And I see that in cultivar selection, cultivar
choice, you know, we've talked about it on some of these shows, but we're still
seeing Gorilla Glue and Wedding Cake being the large producers, you know.
In 2019 in Colorado and Washington, there was, probably most of the market was
Wedding Cake and Gorilla Glue, you know. And most of us had kind of moved on from
those flavors a number of years back. But that was just an aha moment for me to be
like, yo dude, slow down. Just because you're moving past it doesn't mean the
whole consumer base hasn't even tasted it yet, type deal, you know. So.
Yeah. And to go from that, looking at 64 and how it's dramatically changed things,
maybe we can go through and just kind of see how people used to choose cultivars
and then really what you need to look at now. Because the whole progression kind
of went from everyone learning how to recognize that the numerics were very
important. And, you know, there are trends, but, you know, how did it, how did
it really start? You know, Kevin, back when 64 came around, people weren't
really talking and planning quite as much, you know, can you speak to the
evolution of how it's changed cultivar selection?
Yeah, you know, the way I always approached plant selection was I always
identified what was moving and what market across the United States. Because
the reality of it is, is that the herbs, it's statewide preferences, but it's
nationwide hype. And so you have to figure out what's moving where and why.
And then once we understood what moved to those regions, we would find the
plants that represented the desire of the consumer in those regions. And once
we were in that ballpark and it could satisfy the basic need, it works. And so
the problem we have is craft cats, career smokers, career growers, is that we see
differentiation extremely nuanced. The broad consumer doesn't. So, you know,
what they're looking for is something that gets them up, something that sits
them down, something allows them to function. So they're really looking for
three categories. And what we do is we don't understand that the two
differentiated markets, they influence each other, but they and they still
touch because there's still product moving from the white into the unreg.
But they're two different markets. And the way that we get our education is
through social media, through the hype. But that's all really representing
what's going on behind the scenes, not in the storefronts. And so the idea of
what a customer wants and what they don't want and how they judge products
and how they buy products, we're constantly telling them that they're
undereducated. And what they're telling us is we're undereducated because I say
most farmers are struggling. And so what that means is that you have to be able to
realize that the market that people have access to through storefronts, they would
like to have stability. And so something like Gorilla Glue, it gets a bad name
because it was so overly grown and heavily produced that the quality samples
got sifted out and all you saw was bulk. Blue Dream's the same thing. It was so
successful that it became too successful and then it became not successful. And
now it's successful again. And that's really what the small farmer has to
understand is that the idea that you have to keep track of these fads and
chase them, it's not actually accurate because most of the people in the
storefronts who buy cannabis on a regular that aren't living on Instagram
have no fucking clue who won the Emerald Cup, who won the gold top. None of that
shit matters to people who just go home on the way home from the job. They score
a sack at the storefront and what they would like to get is something that's
reasonably priced, something that has reasonable numbers because to them that
implies value and something that smokes better than hay. And if you give them
that, you're all right. And that's the difference is that prior to 64, growers
move product to dispensaries and what you had was curated menus and you had
storefronts that worked with you directly and you were allowed to say, I
only produce eight pounds of this per every two and a half months, but the
store would take that and people would know when those batches were coming in
and you'd have that type of sale. But it changed dramatically once we went into
this mainstream marketing because we took the storefronts down from like what
15,000 to maybe 800 stores right now. So when we pulled all the community stores
out and we put these franchised operations in or even if not franchised
larger, you know, movement stores, it automatically started to change who was
coming to the store and how it worked. And that's where you saw the split into
the unregulated so heavy and people say it's because the herb is so much better,
but the truth is it's just half the price. I don't know if it's twice as good.
And so what you have to be able to realize is that in this conversation, it
has to be about the consumer who only sees cannabis in three divisions and is
which is Indica, Sativa and hybrid. And they are dictating their choices by
price and their expectations are medium and they need certain numerics to
quantify the decision to make it seem like they did right for themselves. And
that's the issue we face and that's really how this discussion has to get
framed out because people get confused that you don't need 100 choices and you
don't have to chase a trend. And as soon as you see a plant as a tip, the minute
you see a variety start to have an incredible amount of hybridization, you
know that the base variety is lost velocity. And now you're going to chase
that until something new pops up. But the minute you start to see, we'll use
gelato as an example. So gelato was smoking hot, right? Because it was it was
rare at first and then it was extremely highlighted. And then it moves into the
system and people love the color and they like the taste and it had beautiful
production potential. So all the things fit for commercial and promotional. And
then it reaches a saturation point and now you see it woven into 100 different
hybrids. So it was Runts and then now Runts is being hybridized into 100
different pieces. And then one of those will come out and be hybridized. What it
lets you know the farther and farther you get away, the less movement in the
base variety. But once we get far enough away, we get movement again because
people want to return to the base element that got the interest to begin
with. And so when you're looking at trends, you have to understand really
how you dilute a product and then how the dilution rebrings back the core
element. And so it kind of lets you see how these things move. And the main
point is to identify what is it that the people are seeking. So this should be
good time.
To add on that, you know, thinking about market saturation, trying to give people
something they're comfortable with, but then also diversifying to develop
regional cultivars. When you're planning, I mean, I know there's not a perfect
formula, but thinking about wanting to do half of the like tried and true and,
you know, blue dream varieties and then or maybe more, you know, how would you
kind of piece out your plan through the year? Go for things that are really
recognizable and small pieces of new and unique. And how would you bring those in,
you know, with your brands and things that people are comfortable with?
Well, I mean, if I'm going at it, I'm going at it a little different in a sense
that if you're doing it, you know, just say we're just outdoor cultivators only,
man, you better stratify your harvest times because the climactic issues we
had last year were problematic. I mean, for some people completely catastrophic.
And so what we need to have is cultivars that are coming out earlier in the season
so that before we get into full potential of fire, we have something harvested,
something that comes out a little bit later. So you have after the fire pressure
has passed, there's that window. So we're talking, seems like that would have been
mid-September through early October. We had the fire problems. That's, I think, a
new reality for us in California. So when we're getting rain right now, like crazy,
we're not even at 50% saturation. This isn't even doing a frigging thing. So I
don't think our issues are going to go away. So what I would say is like, make
sure you grow something that's going to actually come in early so that you have
something that's decent. Bottle flowers work, but they're really still better for
extraction. Unless you want to get them on a lower price point out to the
distributor. The technology is coming. But when it comes down to trying to develop
regional brands and things like that, regional varieties, the game is changing
instantaneously. So there's nothing that's going to be used today that isn't going to
be refined over the next five to 10 years, which we'll use as regional, where we'll
be able to start to build things that specifically work and that a tremendous
number of farmers agree, all right, we'll all grow it as a batch so that we're all
growing Bordeaux grape. And it allows us then to have a much different marketing
potential and growth. But for the individual farmer, you have to grow stuff
you know that's going to work. And if right now color is still trendy. So if you
have some purple in it, nice. If it's hitting over 20, then anything above that
is good. Don't try to educate the customer on your product being better with an
incredible effort, because really, you can't do that for every single bag you
sell. So for me, it comes down to if you don't have somebody that you're moving it
to that has an ability to brand it out, it has to be able to yield enough for you to
get paid. It has to have enough color so that it can be considered trendy. It
should have some good morphology so it holds up under trimming. Because as much
as we talk about, we want all this hand trimming shit, get the trimming back to
the level it was and the price point would be so high, you won't be able to
afford to sell the weed. So you have to kind of accept that what you want to be
able to do is put out varieties on your farm that actually work in today's
situation. And anything that you want to work with on an experimental level, you
know, no more than 5 to 10% of the canopy. But the majority of the canopy that
you're working with has to be stuff that you know, has sellability due to
numerics, morphology, and coloration. And, and I'm somebody who's a freak
collector and it you know, kills me to say that, but that's really the truth
where you're at right now. And so anything more than 5 to 10% of your whole
canopy as an experiment, never a good idea. And you're not really developing
anything that is going to be used in the long term, we're developing the paint.
And we'll use that paint to build our long term cultivar base. But everything
that we're working with right now is still in transition. And the, the thing
for the farmer to remember is grow something that's going to come out early
grow something that'll come out later, and give yourself a fighting chance in
the market because unless your, your brand is so strong that you're in
storefronts all over California on a showcase where it's your label, your
stock, your stuff, who you're going to have to go into batch distribution. And
I would say anytime you're going to do batches, make sure they're above 50
pounds, because that's your test amount. So if you want to go run, you know, 45
different varieties and see what they're like, well, then you're gonna have to
have 45 different tests on it for some of them, I'm sure will be less than 50
pounds. So it's not mathematically smart. And that's the issue is that for
cultivators, you know, we have to look at this from more of an accounting
perspective more than we ever did. Because that's really the truth of it.
And I have a small farm. And so it lets me have a different opinion on this
topic that that's the truth of it, that the small farmer is absolutely dictated
by the economy. And what we do as a community is how we start to figure in
refine, but be really intelligent with your stuff. The fires last year means to
me get something in before September 10.
Yeah, definitely. It sounds like doing work with in collaboration with
neighbors when you're looking to diversify is a great thing. We talked
about that a lot, Josh and Matt, when we talked before. And, you know, farmers
don't really have the bandwidth to do the development, to, you know, really
search things out. Five to ten percent, it's not a lot, you know. So Matt or Josh,
do you guys want to jump in and talk about how you can work with in your
community and, and try to pick those things out and support each other?
Sure. Can you guys all hear me? Okay.
Thanks, Sam.
Yeah.
Good. Good. Thanks, Peter. So, you know, I think to Kevin's point, it's important
to kind of be pragmatic when you're picking your cultivars. And, you know, of
course, the THC levels are unfortunately kind of dominating the decisions of the,
I think, you know, a lot of the time it comes down to the dispensary buyer and
the distributor that, you know, they see what is happening on the shelves and
what's flowing through the cash register. But, you know, I still think that it is
important to like right now, the distro that shares our building with us can't,
you know, they're like, we can't take any more ice cream cake. It's we have ice
cream cake from 15 different farms and, you know, we just don't have any more
bandwidth for ice cream cake. So, you know, like Kevin said, they want purple
stuff. And all of a sudden, purple is trendy again. And I love that because, boy, I was
so sad when there was a time maybe five or six years ago where purple was out of
style. And, you know, of course, all of us that know cannabis deeply and love it so
much kind of lament all of the trends that come through and then tend to dictate, you
know, what we have, what the choices that we have to make as far as like what we
plant and breed. But, you know, I think there is there's something. To be said for,
you know, having that collection and being ready for when the next shift in the
market happens, and I think you can kind of get on the shelf with these high THC
strains right now, at least. And, you know, there's I'm sure people have noticed that
there are turpins that the way that you kind of can keep customers from what I've
seen is having cannabis that just doesn't ever stop smelling good. And that is an
amazing thing, because what we've seen with Prop 64 is the distribution chain is now
taking longer. So because of testing and, you know, quarantines and all the, you know,
even just having to drive it up and down the state and, you know, buyers haggling and
things like that, everything takes a lot longer. So, you know, some of the quickest I
ever see cannabis actually get to a dispensary these days is like two or three months
after harvest. And that's like just really, really get making it, you know, soar through.
And sometimes you're not getting the best price because you're not like waiting. And so I
think that's another thing to think about. You know, you have like monoturbines and
sesquiturbines and these turpins are specifically stable and actually just amazingly
enough, you know, when you open that jar, when the consumer, let's say, opens that jar six
months later, they're just overwhelmed with this amazingly turpy flower. And they look at
that brand and they're like, wow, I'm coming back for it. Because I think, you know,
unfortunately, we're hearing about all of these labs that are getting in trouble for
falsifying the lab results. And I kind of think that consumers are going to at some
point lose a little bit of confidence in that number that rules everything right now. And so,
yes, we're in a place where anything, you know, folks are telling farmers that, you know,
basically the price that we're going to pay you is almost exclusively based on the result that
you get from that lab test. And, you know, that's frustrating for all of us that know and
love cannabis. But don't ignore that fact. But also be ready for, you know, when consumers
start to lose a little bit of confidence in that as being, you know, really a good source for
making decisions.
I was going to say, you know, for a while, I was thinking the only way you could have that high
THC was with the degraded terpene profile. But as people are getting more hip to needing those
numerics, I've seen a lot of things that test great high terpenes and in the mid to high 20s.
And so thinking about, you know, really needing to hit all of those boxes of, you know, the no's
and the numbers, and it has to have a good structure has to either come in earlier be, you
know, just really worthwhile, it limits what we can choose. And so when we're thinking about the
different categories, you know, Kevin, you've really defined the categories of floral and fuel
and fruity and earthy. And so of all of those, do you think that there's one category that's going
to have a more stable shelf life? Or do you think there are certain cultivars in each? Or, you
know, can you maybe touch on that?
You know, a lot of shelf life, it's it's you have terpene preservation. And then you have
flavonoid that we really don't talk about too much, but that's also secondary metabolites. So
cannabinoids, terpenes, all same, like molecular group, that's a basket, then we get into the
flavonoid basket. And that's all in phenols. And with also in phenols, you have your waxes. And
when it comes to holdability, I think a lot of the the intensity that's developed through
biologically driven sun grown really increases that portion of the secondary metabolite
production. And that is kind of what holds gives the plant better quality because some of these
farms, now the wheat all the time, you know, 10-11 months, I see people getting herb from a farm,
farms I know. And so I buy the herb from farms I know when I'm out of the area, if I can find it in
a store, because I know what the herb was like when it came off the farm. And it lets me kind of
see what the perception of it is so many months down the road. Price point is that piece where you
have to as a farmer, you have to be willing to understand that if the herb sits, the value is
little. And so as soon as you start to have slowdown and velocity of the movement, you have to
be willing to negotiate contractually the differential in price that you're going to get. The
idea that anybody's getting paid through the chain heavily isn't really there. Each person thinks the
next one's kind of the problem. And the problem is it's the whole system's the problem. So ultimately,
your number one problem as a cannabis cultivator is when you release your flower from your farm, if
you're not the manufacturer of it, if you're not the one putting it in the jar yourself, you do not
really know how long it sat in stasis before it was processed. And depending on how they treat that
product with moisture fluctuations, and temperature fluctuations, you can have a radically
changed product. So you could put the best herb that could hold on a shelf for three years. And if
you if you don't hold it right, you turn it into trash before it ever goes in. And so I think that
when you when you're really talking about preservation of your flower as a farmer, what you're
trying to do is make a relationship with who's doing your actual processing. And then who's the
manufacturer and what's the rate of speed that it moves through these processes. So that what you end
up having is preservation of the product you create, because you could create a good product. And if it
was held correctly, it would be a great product on the end. Because most of the stuff you see is is
having issues, bigger companies move it through faster. That's the difference. That's why the
customer doesn't mind buying from the giants, because the giants are pushing that shit through the
system quickly. So even though it's what we would say not as good herb, it's perfectly fine to the
customer, because they're getting it without much degradation. And the craft farmers are the ones
that are looking kind of rough because of the 10 or 11 month transfer time. So what you what you have
to be able to do is is protect that whatever you're growing because the bottom line is you most people
that have been growing on farms, you've been growing for a while you understand you need herb that
nugs up, you need it to be able to have a specific density so that it doesn't crumble from handling. You
want to make sure that you're holding it, you know, in some kind of controlled environment when you're
doing the work you're doing at the farm. But the problem is if you're a craft farmer, you typically
not a manufacturer and a processor and a distributor. So if you don't have that whole supply chain, you
don't really have the ability to control the end product. So the relationship on who's trimming your
weed, and when they're done trimming it, what do they do with it when they're done trimming it? When it
goes to the next individual, how long does it sit at the distributor? When it's at the distributor, do
they have it refrigerated? Are they are they able to move it on a timeline that works for you? If you're
really trying to be so concerned with the end product, otherwise, you're just basically white label an
herb and it's just not your name on the package. And in a lot of cases, the idea that you're building brand is
a tough one because, you know, I mean, the truth is 85% of the people that go to a dispensary, you ask them a
week after they walked out the door what they bought last week, they couldn't tell you. And so it, it's a
really tough deal. The price is what dictates that truth. And some of these components, just like they
were saying, ice cream cakes loaded. If you want to know if you want to really know what is moving and what's
not moving, you can always take a look on any site that sells clones that are going for like unregulated. So
like Craigslist, use it as an example. So you pop up and you see what's for sale people, what's people's
clones list, you go on IG, what's people's clones list, what are people selling. And what you notice is
you know, whenever they don't sell those things in any quantity in the unregulated market, it lets you
know that the velocity of the sale is decreased so much that it's not worth growing it even at a greater
price point. But just because purple, just because ice cream cake isn't going, it doesn't mean that if you had an
ice cream cake hybrid that had, because it's considered new. So when you said to them, hey, this is what I have,
they say, oh, that doesn't fit into the ICC category. That's an ICC hybrid. It allows you new velocity, new
negotiation ability, as long as the numerics are there, as long as some of those qualities are there. And that
it's just really, it's not that hard to do this. It's just what you have to realize is that your desire to put the
best herb out on the customer table is almost, it has to almost be secondary to the reality that you're competing
with operations that are doing a million square foot and the customer's happy buying it. And they're not that
unhappy buying it. And it's going to take a minute for us to get an appreciation by giving them access to craft
cannabis at the right pace through the system, because it makes all of us look bad. And that's what we can't really
fix without, you know, some kind of collective efforts as a, as a cultivator community.
Yeah, and that's thinking about it from like, from the flower perspective, where we're really focused on producing
flower, but we have a lot of friends that have diversified to fresh frozen. And you know, that's really taken off. And
Josh, you were saying at the beginning, you know, you kind of see where these market trends are going. You know, you saw
that rosin was going to hit and it was great. Looking at purple and gelato strings being really popular right now. Do you
have any ideas or predictions on what might be up and coming?
It's very hard to predict. That's my experience. I mean, Kev kind of has a longer bandwidth of looking at the scene than I do. I
just I think you nailed it right there. So many times you almost say the same things over and over again, Kev, about how to
pick these cultivars. And when I was here, and you say it, say it again, at the beginning of the show, you know, the, the
color, the numerics, the feel, all that. I was kind of in my head going, you know, what would Kev do if, if Kev wasn't Kev, and
he was in a brand new state, not in California? Would you go after getting the big hot hybrid, you know, big, big cultivars? Or
would you really just focus on getting the best of the best that you can cultivate in your situation in those categories? And it
just, it just makes so much sense to me. In Washington, we are ahead in some ways and behind in some ways of California.
California is definitely sets the trends, socially and, and whatnot. But in market, we, we kind of went through this before you
guys. And so we're still, I've been watching because I'm like, California is gonna, gonna overlap us real quick. And it's just a
matter of time. But we're still limited in our amount of producers by a lot. We only have 600. That, and that was last year, we've
lost producers. So it is, it's constricted the market to the point where I can go in and sell, if I have a good bag of weed, I can go
in into a store, and I don't have the distributor issues that you guys have. I can go direct and sell my, you know, I can trim my
product, I can package it, and I can sell it to the store at whatever time I want to, you know, we have that, that flexibility. But
what I've, but what we've seen, I guess, that I'm trying to get to is after all the flesh out and all these companies have kind of
come, you know, gone up and down and failed, and we have room, and, and now there's enough room in the market where there's
distinction, and then I can move a high-quality product at a high price, and it moves really fast. And I'm sitting on, you know, an
amount of weed right now that in some of it is just like, does that makes my eyes do that. And some of it are just like, yeah, man,
it's good A plus weed, like you won't find better at the shelves of the store, but I'm not doing this over. And as I'm just thinking it
through, I'm realizing that every time I do this, that's the shit that sells. And I always struggle over the stuff, even if it's
really, really good weed, I struggle to move it. But the stuff that is just blows your, your head off, it moves really quick. And if
we could all get that, that thing that our own thing, and it can be, it can be different weed, it can be different cultivars, but that
thing that really just blows the head off. I think the bags sell that way, end of the day, you know, and Kev's right, that there's,
there's all these factors, you know, that the big companies can move weed, and they can move it fresher. But I mean, California is
different, a different scene with that distributor, distributor license in play. And I got to think that there's a way that you can
you know, work that out. I'm kind of struggling on what I'm trying to say, you know, I don't know how to predict what's coming up
next. You know, we saw Skittles, Gelato, moving into the, the Runts now, you know, was like last thing of the last two or three
years. And I had to throw out my guesses, I would say we're going the route of Mean Gene from Mendocino. And the guy's been
nailing it. Grape, lime, cherry, root beer, they're, they're classic flavors that are bold, the name says what that what it's
supposed to taste like. And they're, they're really loud. You know what I mean? I think that we're going to kind of move back
into that realm of, you know, to some degree, there's all there always is going to be the, you know, kind of the trash can
varieties, like I think I'm the ones that are nasty and full of all this, this complexity, trash can flavors and cheese and
garlics and whatnot. But I think that the bold, fruity, strong flavors that are really classic, kind of almost classic colors are
going to be the something that's going to take because we're moving into a national market as well at the same time. And, and I
think about when I go into a store, I look at, okay, if it's a store, I don't find anybody that I know, you know, nobody that I
know is growing weed in that store, then I have to start looking at flavors that I like. And, and even when it's a cross, you
know, if it's like a, you know, twisted lemon, banana, whatever, and I can imagine what I what the two cultivars are, that
cross and I like them both, I'm still kind of hesitant. Because I haven't tasted it. And I just put a lot of stock in that in the
way that I think the purchase, because I think that folks are a bit the same way where they're gonna go, you know what, just give me
the cherry. I like cherry. Let's do the cherry. Give me the give me the root beer. Or you know what I mean? Like, it's basic, it's
simple. And
yeah,
well, and you'll go back because the numerics are one thing, but if the flavor knows aren't there, then you only buy it once.
You can have both you can have both that you that with the recreational mark forces to focus on numerics. And we as a as a growers
answered answered that call. And we were putting out both now. And so that I think that's really the answer is you don't have to go
well, you know what those those high turpy ones sometimes produce less. We've for the most part bred that stuff to happen. You
know, we've got that on the table.
Nice. The problem though, right is that you
Kevin, just before you start, we there's some giveaways that we want to make sure that people have a chance to win. And while
we're talking, they can be doing their part. So just quickly.
Give me one second. So it is a bag of swag, an amazing swag that that that you could be rocking if you want it. And the way to win it is
basically follow Willow Creek Canada on Instagram. And then from there, you can go to the website and subscribe to the newsletter. And
Lindsay, who's standing by?
We have Hannah from
Hannah is standing by in the newsletter subscriber inbox, and she will pick a winner. And that winner will get this bag of goodies. So let that
process start now. And in a couple minutes, we'll announce the first winner. So Kevin, if you remember the deep thought that
good luck,
because it's important. He Josh is right about the long term where you start to build customer awareness and you start to build customer
appreciation. But this this this lecture as a timeframe, it's a it's what are we doing this year. And so when we talk about what are we doing
today, it's very different than what are we going to do in three years. And so my three year dream is to be able to have a very different
conversation than the one we're having today. The three year dream is being able to say that the farms are producing some really good
grass. They're getting paid for the quality. They're not getting paid for the quantitative factors that are used today. But today they use
them. And and because of that, you have to be able to at least monetize enough to move forward because say like we use BHL as example,
right? BHL at one point was, you know, unbelievably valuable. And then it gets a blip as a high end. And you see rosin as the high price
point, but you can't compare the two of them in terms of market penetration. More people are smoking BHL than a smoking rosin by an ungodly
amount. And when you took a look at BHL, what you have is really one company in California, Raw Garden, and every other company so radically
below them in terms of production numbers. It's ridiculous because what they did is they went after the price. So I see Raw Garden, like
in a store, you know, 30, 35, 36 bucks, right? That's sale price. And so what they did is they use scope and effective extraction
technology. For us on some of the derivative products, they're dangerous to get into as a focus because once we go into, you know,
unlimited canopy in 2023, it means that you can have an unbelievable amount of outdoor grown that you can extract from and squish. And because
economy scale comes in, it allows them to be very competitive. If, and we're just using BHL as an example, because it has an unbelievably
saturated customer base. People have a very strong opinion on it, and they smoke the living shit out of it. One company wiped out every other
company in California, nuked them. If you look at a graph, it looks like these guys are trillionaires compared to the rest of the people in
terms of what they're grabbing. That to me is a harbinger of what happens when you start to have derivative products that used to be very
valuable. I think that as we go forward, you know, a small portion of your crop would be done as derivative so that you could have a more
effective product line coming from your farm so that your farm or your region has X amount that goes into this production, X amount that goes into
this because then what you'd have is a balanced production based off of what's moving most, where's the highest profit margins in those respective
categories. But for right now, the advice is fucking survive. I'm telling you, you, nobody I know is getting paid well, whether they're dancing up
and down the street, let me know that they're a weed farmer. I don't see anybody fucking overjoyed, except for the fact that we get to live our
lives. So I'm ecstatic that I get to be a farmer, but I'm not digging how the market really sets up. And so the advice in the short term is always
just to make sure that a small portion of your crop allows you to touch things that you think are burgeoning. When we say R&D, what does that mean?
It means you kind of take a look and see what are the breeders releasing? What's the trickle down? Take a look at some of the top brands, because they're
the ones that set the trends publicly. The public isn't setting the fucking trend. It's being set for them. It's being advertised through social
media to make an awareness and then people become aware and it drives the hype. That's where OG Kush to me is the first true internet strain because it
was living on the net on these forums, and it made it supernatural. Everybody wanted to play with it. Now if you advertise it in social media the
correct way through the right people, it gets an unbelievable amount of traction. It allows you to drive attention to the product. Take a look at what
that is that they're using. How are they marketing it? What's the point? It helps you kind of understand how to do it at your level. You can't go buck
the system when you're in the system. You buck the system when you're not in the system, but we're in the system. That means we have to kind of work with
the system we have. That point is that be a good farmer because the skill that you're developing farming is the skill you're going to use to grow
and kill the cultivars or regular cultivars. It doesn't make a fucking difference. The same sun's over your head, the same earth's under your feet, you're the
same person doing the work. That development doesn't diminish if you're making good economic decisions. What diminishes is if you get blasted out of
ability to operate and you have to sell your property. I think that the simplicity of what you're doing matters. You don't have to have massive
diversity. You have to have enough diversity so that when distributors ask you, what do you have? You can tell them something sativa, something indica,
something hybrid. We know that that's not the correct nomenclature. It's not the right designation. It's an improper view of how to see cannabis. When you
have to try to educate every single person you're talking to, you realize that you are the uneducated one. If you're the only one that understands and no
one else does, it must mean really it's not the time. What you do is you accept the fact that that's how it is. Then as this industry emerges and
grows, the information will start to come out, but it'll come out in a mainstream way that lets the people who buy cannabis become interested. I don't go
home and fucking research dairy cows when I buy milk. I didn't buy milk, but when I drank milk, I didn't go home at night and study the dairy cow
phenomenon so that I understood exactly who was the probiotic farmer. It's in a fucking box. You buy the shit. If it says organic, it's good enough. It
literally is that simple. I don't know that many people who even care if they have organic milk. When you're talking about this stuff, about the knowledge
base and how the consumers are going to get caught up in it, you got to remember that all of us that are all caught up in it are caught up in it because we ran
it as a culture forever. That's our money. It's our identity. Regular people who buy weed, they don't have to go and read five books to appreciate it. I don't
study meat to appreciate a good steak.
Right. You have to provide that great experience so they want to come back because the education piece is important, but I don't know if people necessarily, like you said, are going to be
impassionate like we all probably are. That's a lot of it. What advice would you have for farmers that are brand new, just got their licensure, they're in the
direct market for the first time, they don't know a single distributor. What would the most important thing be? Start reaching out? Who do you think, or where would you guide them?
I think the first thing is make sure that they're able to actually grow weed because that's the overlooked part where we're just going to go grow this shit and we're going to sell it.
For us, our career group, we need to go focus on distribution because I think we pretty much have our hands on growing. We do it all differently, but it's all basically the same. We're trying to develop a product that we've been refining practice on over time.
For new cultivators, I think the best thing they could do is tie into traditional farmers and traditional meaning utilizing the agricultural practices that they want to employ on the farm. You're looking for good farming practices, healthy land management.
Those type of things allow you to start to become efficient so that you can start to develop the property that you have so that you're actually over a multi-year period building the delivery mechanism for the quality end product that's shown as flower or derivative.
I think that for new farmers, the first thing they have to really focus on is make sure they're approaching what they're doing from a logical point of view. That component then lets them see that from a more professional point of view. Usually, that means bring up an accountant on board.
You don't have to hire them full time, but you need a bookkeeper to argue with you about your money decisions. You need to make sure that you're able to actually sustain what you're doing and run a profitable business to some degree unless you're heavily invested in. If you're heavily invested in, it's rare that investors flow money into you and they haven't solved these questions already.
For new farmers that come in with an investment group, part of your investment group money has to be spent in hunting down who's your distribution groups you want to work with and you really want to interview them. What you want to do is you want to go meet the distributors. You want to go see where their places are. You want to be able to talk to them in real life. Are these people real? Do they have any references? Has anybody done any business with them?
You have to make sure that you're being cautious where you're only allowing so much of your product to leave at a time. If you have 500 pounds, it might be best to let it go in 50 pound lots so that if something occurs with new business dealings, you don't lose the whole package because whether you get the legal ramifications that you can apply to someone or not doesn't change the fact that you just got fucked.
I think if I was new, I'd focus on first, can I run a farming operation? Then second, if I don't have investment groups that are helping me do the shopping, then what you need to do is you need to contact an alliance like yours, Humble County Grows Association, groups that are trade groups within a region and say, hey, in your member base, are there distributors listed?
Then what it would do is it allow you to be able to talk to a group of farmers and ask them, hey, who are you using?
Because the bottom line is as craft farmers, if you can't share information and try to be cool with each other, you're going to get beat to death because you're working against extremely capitalized, very intelligent business groups that they are not playing around.
I don't care what failures we've seen. Show me any major industry where it's run by total failures. It just moves that direction because they have the finances with which to do the work.
Since we don't have it individually, we have to have it collectively. I think that the human resource is unbelievably powerful. It's the one that's really under looked at because we look at money as the tool, but it's the human resource.
The human resource is that at any point and any time, somebody can come up with an idea so fucking incredible it can change the world. No tool can do that. Someone invented the tool to do that.
When you get a group of people together that are all farmers and they're all trying to survive and they're all serious about farming, that's a good base to get your information.
As an individual farmer, if you're not career where you're connected into the web, then you need to connect yourself into the web.
Hopefully, the people that you connect to are pretty reasonable about giving you some information because you can't see the other craft farmers as your competitor. You guys all got to work together. All of us are the same.
Hey, Kev. This thing is specific for the Willow Creek area. Are there specific distributors that you know that have their eye on the pulse rather than others?
They're going to see distributors out there that may just be reacting to the sales right in front of their hands but not looking six months down the road.
Are there guys that you would highlight?
Yeah. I work with a group out of SoCal, Sacramento, Green Rocket. We have a good relationship. Right here in town, you got Redwood Roots.
I use them as an example because you have a tremendous amount of community farms that they're doing the work with.
What it does, it allows you to be able to start having your product highlighted with other farms similar to your farm.
If I was in the Willow Creek area, I would want to work with a group that let me also have other Willow Creek farmers selling the product because hopefully, the products could move into a region.
When people bought product, they would start to begin to get awareness of what Willow Creek's products are like, what Trinity products are like.
Wherever your little cluster of farms, everyone wants to be the only one but the problem isn't until you understand what a brand.
In alcohol, a brand means you can be in 46,000 stores every day of the week.
You have enough product to fill 46,000 stores and tomorrow, you can refill 46,000 fucking stores.
If you can't do that, you're not a brand.
In our mind, when we think brand, we're thinking Nike, we're thinking Apple, you're thinking shit that's real brands.
None of us in cannabis, I don't give a shit. There's no one in the country on a production level that can satisfy that.
Cookies hits it with brand identity because they by far have the greatest brand identity in cannabis without a question.
Even at that, when I say to people cookies, they're like, what?
Even my friends who were growers five years ago, they don't know who cookies is.
They know Girl Scout Cookies but they don't know the brand.
How would they know us then? Because comparatively, we're almost invisible.
What I believe is that the regions within, and it's not just Humboldt County.
I'm pro-Humboldt because I live here and this is where my heart lie.
When I travel, I try to give the same lecture to every region that each region has clusters of cultivators that have made good living running cannabis operations using that environment.
Those similarities give you a collective strength because when you put that product onto the market,
people who consume the products from that region and especially if you're a craft cultivator, even like Michigan, the Michigan group, the main group, they're growing really good grass in a cluster.
They're able to say, look, all of us are working together.
When herb goes out of that area and it's good because the cultivators are trying to do it right,
they have enough of them together to create a better leverage on distribution and sales because you have a much bigger chunk of cannabis that you can negotiate with as buying power or buying leverage.
Then what it does, it makes everyone in the region look better.
The idea is to be able to develop groups within your area so that they can better market your product.
Market the product is ultimately who's the buyer for the dispensaries and what are they seeking.
You need to be able to get through to the buyers to find out what is it that they want so that you're not wasting your time.
If it's a price point and you're trying to move price point, they're the perfect person.
If they're more of an Epicurean storefront where they're fine details because they have a higher level of clientele,
and I don't mean better people, but just more discerning in procurement,
then you're going to notice that those are great places to sell craft, but they're also going to sell a lot less comparatively.
The herb is going to move through the chain at a much slower pace.
You can't have everything you want because we don't have enough storefronts.
For the size of California, we're so understocked with retail points that for me,
the idea would always be to get as many people from an area, hopefully like Southern Humboldt, Eastern Humboldt,
the different regions in Humboldt County, we're all seen as Humboldt because then it just gets the attention.
It's Trinity, they get the attention.
Then you start to get the differentiation in region.
When wine was wine, it was French wine.
You didn't know it as wine from the specific appellation, you knew it as French wine.
Then as you started to develop your winesmanship, you started to go, I seem to like things from Burgundy.
I seem to like this grape from Burgundy.
I like it from this farm in Burgundy.
At first, it was French wine.
I don't try to reinvent my strategies on how I get people to want to see a thing because I know that it's historically been done.
All we have to do is understand that there's a first, it's a bigger, then refined to a smaller.
What we're trying to say is craft operators that people need to see the fine detail first.
The problem is that they're trying to look at the big picture first and that's really blurry.
If we can give it to them in better regional branding where instead of just trying to spend all your money branding you,
you put the money collectively together to brand your area.
Your identity is as a collective, it's a group of farmers.
Each is an individual, they all have specialities, their land has specific impacts, their techniques reflect, their choices of what they grow reflect.
The bottom line is it's going to be from that group.
I think that's the only way that you can do this.
When it comes to distributors, we have a couple of good local ones that I mentioned, Chris.
I know Ruben of the Boys from Humboldt Brand.
I know they've moved a lot.
I've used the Green Rocket to move some of my product this year.
The other part of my product, I white label it but in a quasi-white label where I get brand recognition but it's for another company.
I run their cultivars.
Mostly what it does is it puts me into a better shelf position.
It lets me have product in stores that's very difficult to get into.
What we want to be able to do is get more of the small farms and some of these bigger stores
so that what we start to have is the ability for bigger stores to help us with our branding,
help us showcase who we are, allow multitudes of small farmers to participate in this development of an industry
because you can't just have big.
It's not that in any other industry.
I think it requires the farmers to really get together and realize you're way more in the same ocean than just the same boat.
You're all working together.
Independent producers, especially in each region, seeing that and trying to work together,
it gives everybody more strength and more resources.
Humboldt, I'd love to see all of us work together.
Northern, Southern, we've got this bigger blanket of Humboldt that we're in, highlighting that
and then micro-focusing on these regions because all of the areas in Humboldt are gorgeous
and Trinity and all of the Northern California, we've got some amazing farmers all across the state.
Nat, you work with farmers up and down the state and I know that you've seen certain cultivars
that we're all looking at in each region.
Would you say that there are certain ones that shine more in this Northwest?
And then Josh, you're so far North, so you have to deal with an incredibly short season.
It's tough to say specifics, of course, but if you have any that really shine that you'd like to give a mention,
I'd love to hear some of that too.
You're muted.
I think you guys, yeah, we can't hear you.
I'll tell you, man, he produced out of the house, him and Rizdin, they did a GMO cherry pie that turned out so good.
GMO cherry pie that turned out so good.
That's a nasty one.
Josh, you're muted too.
I said I'm about to cross a bunch of shit on that one, man.
I'm really excited about that one and it's going on full of production and pollen's fucking flying on that one.
It did good in two different locations.
I had it in one area that lost sun at the end of the season and then I had it on the farm.
And, oh my gosh, that turned out beautiful.
We're getting a weird echo.
I heard that, yeah.
Is it still going?
Is it you or is it coming through on me too?
No, it just sounds like me.
Now it's going.
And Nat's muted.
Yeah, you're on mute.
So, Nat, I think you may have clicked the...
Did Peter have you on the master mute? Did he pull the hammer down?
No, no, no, no. I did not mute him. That was a self-mute.
We still can't hear you.
So, Nat, if you clicked on that...
That GMO, man, I've been, just to kind of keep talking about the GMO, I've been getting a lot of flavors come across my table with the GMO crosses.
They're just starting to come across and it's really nice to see that expression.
I kind of just think of it like, I think the GMO of cream mushroom soup.
And so I just kind of see those expressions one way or the other.
And I fucking love it, man.
It's a good thing.
Hash making dream, man.
That cross came out really, really good.
And, but you know what else you did that was good too I enjoyed?
And it was that testa rosa to the black lime.
I got a name for it.
I got an offensive slurry name for it.
What did we call it?
Black walk gold.
Nice.
Yeah, I don't know. The Italian, right? From the testa rosa.
My mom's Italian, so I can pull it off a little bit, you know.
I like it.
No, I've been, I've, those are two.
And both of those, both of those are highly marketable.
And I didn't do the labs on them, but I know that all the other characteristics work.
Now the GMO, it doesn't have the color to it.
And it was more pale green coming out of my yard compared to the redness that I had.
So I got more of like a red tone to it.
But it's so unbelievably loud and encrusted that it's almost impossible not to get recognition.
And then because it's, it's devastatingly strong, it goes.
But that was, that turned out good.
What are you popping up, Big Nat?
What are you releasing new this year?
Your vanilla frosting and the melon was smashing.
I got to smoke some really killer shit with Swami.
Me and Swami, we were smoking.
Me and Swami hung out at the Gandhi meeting and he broke out some melon from you and some of that frosting that was just his version of it came out just stellar.
You know, we always have a really, really big catalog because pretty much all we do is, is breed.
We just make seeds and we have, you know, 50,000 square feet of just all making seeds and researching.
So it's, we have a lot of really awesome new things.
One of the new ones that I'm really excited about is the Jelly Rancher strain.
And it checks all the boxes that so far we've been kind of hitting on.
It's early and it, you know, the one thing is it's not very purple.
It's got a little bit of purple, but it tests really high as well.
And it's, it's an early one.
And then we have a vanilla cream pie is another one that people have been really liking.
That one's been coming back around 30%.
And it's really, we actually found it up at Lindsay's farm at Aloha Humboldt doing, you know, one of our gigantic Fino hunts that we do collaboratively across, you know, Northern California.
And so, you know, it takes a while to turn those into actual seed varieties.
So we discovered that up with Lindsay a few years ago and then, you know, worked it into a good seed variety over the last couple of years and finally released it now.
But, you know, we've been trying to answer the call for like uniform seed varieties so that people can grow from seed.
Because of course, you know, we always hear how much, you know, how much here it is and how scaling is something that like is a lot more conceivable when you're talking about seed.
And of course the auto flower thing is just huge.
When I first started breeding with auto flowers four or five years ago, you know, it was a frustrating experience a little bit.
It took us a while to figure out the nuances of, you know, the tricks about not letting them get root bound, especially when they're young and some of those things.
But when we finally got it and, you know, really grew our first successful auto flower plants, I mean, they just like blew our minds.
I mean, they've continued to, to be honest, every single year.
I mean, at this point it's a major goal for us as lots of people are becoming more and more focused on really only producing auto flowers.
Because, you know, some people don't want to pay for, you know, the debt permit, but they still want to be able to do two runs.
And that's just like a practical reality for a lot of folks when they're put in that position by the state.
And so for us to be able to really focus on these past two years, getting these autos and increasing the THC and increasing the density on it.
And, you know, even just increasing the yield in general, like I threw some in my backyard and kind of ignored them and went back.
And the next thing you know, they're taller than I am. And I'm not a short girl either by any means.
So I was impressed and it's been amazing to watch how much the auto flower whole entire like genetic world has developed and has progressed in just a couple of years.
It's honestly, it's incredible.
Well, it was shocking kind of how malleable the species is and how, you know, I'm not going to say it's easy because it takes an incredible amount of like concentration and organization.
Like I never thought that, you know, we were going to be capable of, but we do it.
And but, you know, basically you can take that auto flowering trait and bring it, you know, cut and paste it into a photo period varietal that you just fucking love.
So you can take your favorite photo strain that you've been working on for, you know, whatever period of time or just something that you, you know, runts or something new that just came out or whatever.
And in four generations, you can, for all intensive purposes, have yourself that varietal in an auto flowering version.
You just have to be really on point and patient and very organized.
So I think that it's, it's absolutely a myth that, you know, if you've ever heard like auto flowering is not good cannabis, that's like a terrible kind of a blanket statement or stereotype that I think we're about to absolutely wipe out.
So, you know, there's nothing about just the fact that something flowers after, you know, or is finished and ready to harvest after two and a half, three months that makes it not produce good cannabis.
So we can make through breeding, we can essentially make cannabis that is just as good as any photo period variety into an auto flower.
And then that will allow people to have, you know, a lot more options when it comes to cultivating.
They'll be able to, you know, just, I mean, I'm sure everybody can imagine all of the, the unique, you know, different methods.
I mean, even for indoor, you know, you can run your lights for 20 hours for the entire cycle and not have to like, think about changing HVAC and all of the different, you know, conditions you're going to have when you flip things.
Normally when you flip things into flower, you know, all of a sudden you have to heat the room instead of constantly cooling or whatever.
So it just, I think there's a lot of really cool things that are coming from that.
And it's exciting. It's kind of reinvigorated as, as a breeder that's been breeding in Humboldt County for over 20 years.
There were times where I was like, Oh, I feel like maybe I've seen most of what the cannabis species is capable of.
And boy, was I wrong. Every time I thought that I was absolutely incorrect.
And, you know, one thing I do want to point out, as you were saying about, you know, all of the endless possibilities of the advantages of auto flower, we've started doing it a while ago and we've noticed a lot more of all our full-term photo period cultivators catching onto the method.
It's just interplanting with the autos and, you know, it sounds kind of like a simple concept, but the reality is, is if you're getting those in there before your full-term plants fully flush out and crowd them and you're harvesting right as they're, you know, getting really bent.
It's like you then just maximize your square footage. And when you're paying for every single foot, it's like, dang, you might as well get as much in there as you can.
And so, you know, I was just going to say just to tag on that.
Just quickly, Josh, Josh, you got, you got to remember your comment.
Can you hear me, Josh?
Can anybody hear me?
Am I talking to myself?
I was just like, oh man, this works out so good in my plant.
I, you know, I'm doing a seed run, but I could just be growing an auto flower run while I'm vegging out my mother's in the same house and taking my getting ready to take my spring cuts and, and getting another crop in during that whole time.
It's pretty, I'm just like, whoa, dude, that's cool.
You know, it helps me be small and do more things.
Yeah, I mean, when it comes down to it.
Can anyone hear me?
I can hear you.
Oh my God.
People can hear me.
I thought I was like, so Hannah is back on with us to announce the winner.
Hannah, you got to unmute yourself.
And there we go.
Hannah has been smoking.
Hey guys.
Now just getting it lighted.
I thought we were doing this at 420 but we'll see what it's like.
So really excited to be doing this and thank you guys, everyone for participating.
This is awesome.
We're excited to send out this great gift basket of a bunch of swag from Willow Creek Farms.
We've got soul spirit water bottles and also Willow Creek Canada hat.
So do we have a winner for the first?
We do.
Oh my God.
I'm just typing up what he's going to get.
Nice.
And I'm also, this is kind of one of my favorite things in this basket here.
Sweet sweatshirt from High Rise Farms.
They're cultivating up at 4,000 feet elevation.
So big ups.
We got Bigfoot here.
He's a local mascot.
Anyways, our winner is Kevin Gomez.
Yo, Kevin.
That's awesome.
Congratulations.
Send an email to willowcreekcana.com and shoot us your details and we'll get this to you.
Thank you guys.
But wait, there's more.
There's another, should we announce the next raffle now or do we want to wait before we announce it?
We should announce it now so people can, and it's pretty much the same drill.
Go subscribe to Willow Creek newsletter.
It's in our website and you can get there with our Instagram, Willow Creek Canada.
And hit the link in the bio.
And I believe our next raffle is at five.
At five.
Okay.
So, and then are we going to show, is it the same thing or is it something different?
I don't have that basket.
I'm not raffling off it all the time.
Lindsay.
I bet it's another amazing basket full of awesome donated goods.
And by the way, every winner also gets a pound of weed from each Willow Creek Alliance member farm.
That's, did I say that out loud?
Patrick is compassion or something.
I don't know about that.
And we do ship internationally.
So, okay.
So, who has the next basket?
Is it Lindsay or Judy?
I think so.
That's going to go over to Allie.
But not quite yet.
Okay.
All right.
So, we won't tell you what it is, but to win it, you have to go here and then go there and subscribe to that newsletter.
And like the lucky Kevin Gomez, one of you will win the next basket of goods.
So.
And once you're subscribed, it'll be really nice because we can let you know about our next webinar.
We're going to be four of them this year.
And we just surveyed all of our members.
And the top runners are regenerative farming and then fire safety and forest resiliency, which is really important.
Get things cleaned up and defensible space here in the spring and talk to your fire safe council and do all of the necessary things to make sure we have a better fire season.
So, that's one of the things we're focused on.
And if you're subscribed, you can see what we're up to.
All right, Josh.
Do you remember your deep thought?
And go.
I think Josh is the only one who can't hear me.
Can someone else tell Josh to start going on his.
Josh, we were talking about diversifying and having different things like mixed in, doing full term, but then also auto flower.
When you're thinking about bringing out regional cultivars and stabilizing them and having a stable variety that you love, that you want to hold and bring on, a lot of people don't have that capability to do that through the winter.
How would you recommend the novice seed enthusiasts keep their genetics?
And I don't know if Josh can hear any of this.
I lost Josh.
Okay.
Well, Nat, how do you suggest keeping your genetics fresh and solid?
Do you like to back cross and make sure you're keeping them that way?
You guys all have a mom room going.
Yeah, of course we have mom rooms where we are keeping things year round, obviously.
But it's getting more and more like there's a lot of companies that are selling the sprays for doing feminized seeds.
And it's no longer really a secret that you can basically just take a female that you love and a clone of it and do what's called self pollination.
And so you can just reverse the sex of that plant by spraying it with cannabinology.
There's a bunch of different companies that have sprays now that they're just selling.
And basically that will make the plant produce a female plant that you know doesn't hermaphrodite or have any wonkiness, hopefully, in the genetic.
You can actually just reverse the sex of it and pollinate a clone, another version of it, and make what's those are called self seeds or S1s.
And you won't get a whole bunch of essentially clone seeds out of that.
That takes years and years and generations.
And it's a lot for me to get into right now.
But you will have a certain amount of those progeny will look very much like the clones that you were working on.
So that's a way that you can do it.
You'll have probably only maybe 20 to 30% that will really, really be just like mom and mom, let's just say.
But another way to do it is to just keep a male.
And I mean, a lot of people like are really want to go all natural.
And we applaud that.
We always do regular breeding as well every year.
And basically what I think a lot of people go wrong when they're really trying to start breeding for the first time is they think that you need this great big male plant to, you know, that it should be almost as big as a female or whatever.
Like you really can beat the living crap out of your male plants and kind of put them in a place where they're just barely growing and barely staying alive.
And then when you're gearing up to make seeds and to pollinate, you can, you know, allow it to put on some mass.
But really like a plant that's a foot tall will make thousands of seeds potentially.
I used to, back in the day, I used to just always keep males when I didn't, you know, when I wasn't really having them as part of a primary breeding project.
And I just wanted to do like the little, you know, Ziploc bag method where you put some pollen in a bag and put a bud that's, you know, got white hairs and shake it around in there.
Or the paintbrush method where you just have a little bit of pollen and dab it on with the paintbrush.
Little projects like that, you can keep those males in your living room in the corner or in a closet or somewhere inside with a window.
And I've never, ever had that pollinate my garden.
And I think a lot of people are just, you know, sort of scared of having any male cannabis plants around anywhere.
And, you know, breeding is a lot of fun.
And, but the best way to do it is probably just to get a hold of the local kind of craft breeder that's in your neighborhood and team up with them.
Because, you know, not every farm or farmer has the bandwidth to be able to do it.
And that's why there are seed companies for every major agricultural crop in the world.
There's, you know, there are people that, you know, make bread.
And also I sometimes make bread at home.
But most of the time I buy my bread from the bakery.
And most farmers are going to buy their seeds from the seed company.
Because, you know, you don't really have time and you know that the seed company absolutely has it down.
So I think it's okay to just, you know, as a farmer, if you just want to grow a whole bunch of really good bud and that's a wonderful job.
That's your, you know, what you want to do with your life.
And that's awesome.
And you're definitely wise to team up with a good, you know, breeder that will actually be able to give you a little bit of attention and should give you some attention for your crop.
You know, hopefully, you know, like what, and I don't want to toot our own horn, but we have genetic consultations every single day of the week.
This time of year, multiple ones at our offices in Eureka.
And it's basically just farms coming in and saying, is this going to work if I do this with your seeds?
And we tell them yes or no.
And that's like such a crucial thing because, you know, lo and behold, we've got this gigantic catalog with a million different strains in it.
And not every strain is really intended for someone to grow commercially, but we keep strains like train wreck around because at the same time, you know, like even the best commercial growers in the world, like Jason from Ridgeline was in yesterday or the day before.
And he was like, holy shit, you have train wreck seeds.
And I'm like, yeah, we don't, you know, really recommend that you grow a ton for commercial.
And he's like, no, no, hell no.
I was just going to give some to my dad because he freaking loves that.
And I'm like, that's why we keep those around.
Hopefully, you know, markets change and people start to have greater appreciation for all the things that cannabis has to offer.
And then we get like the diversity of demand.
But for the time being, just like talk to your local breeder.
You know, guys like Josh up in the, you know, further up north can totally.
That's like what, you know, his MO is.
He totally gets in with the, you know, finds out what cultivator likes and what their market to be.
And then, you know, you can do a lot for a farmer as a craft kind of craft breeder.
Well, and, you know, that's the most important thing that you want to look for as any kind of business.
It's not what your ideal product is as a company.
It's about what your customers want.
And, you know, providing that for us, that means we always try to maintain a very diverse seed catalog because, you know, Evan was saying, I don't really ever see the cannabis industry turning into something where there's the apple of cannabis.
Everyone wants to try different things.
And if you're really, truly into smoking, if you're a connoisseur, you constantly want to be trying the new cool flavor or, you know, that new special hybrid of the cross you love.
And, you know, nobody's ever going to be able to entirely dominate or satisfy someone who, you know, seriously enjoys smoking on a regular basis.
Thank God.
Josh is back.
Can you hear us?
Wait, now we now you can hear us, but we can't hear you.
So if you if you click the sprocket or tap the sprocket, the cam mic sprocket, you have a setting for your speaker, which is your audio and then your necessary, your microphone and your speaker.
We were tapping our mic and we actually ended up having to sign out and sign back in for some reason.
So you may want to just try that out if it's not working.
Because, yeah, for some reason, every time we clicked it, it was disappear on us.
He'll be back.
So, Nat, as I see kind of new breeders come on the scene, I mean, you're talking commercial market.
And I feel like whether a home grower or a large scale commercial operation buys your seeds, they'll have a tight uniformity and expectation of what they're growing.
It seems like there are other breeders where you'll find you may find interesting, cool stuff, but the variation is going to be wide in terms of popping their stuff.
Is that so?
So how do you see kind of the a breeder like yourself who who needs to be dependable with what you're delivering, whether someone's growing six plants or six thousand, but also kind of the fun of finding stuff from someone who put something out where maybe you can find, you know, you have fun playing with it on a small scale?
Yeah, well, you know, we decided that we were going to be a seed company and we kind of stuck to that, like even through I mean, I had so many people laugh at us over the years, you know, like people were like, you keep male plants like, is it a joke?
Like, I don't want to go over there.
Or like, you know, just be like people don't want seeds, do they want clones?
And I'm like, I know, but everything has to come from a seed event, you know, at some point.
And, you know, over the years, it's been definitely, you know, a little bit of a redemption to feel like, all right, you know.
People really do appreciate seeds and they do like growing from seeds.
And so because of that, like battle that we've kind of had to fight almost internally with like, are we crazy or what?
We definitely always wanted to like and being in Humble getting beat up a little bit more probably than than maybe other places where, you know, seed companies exist.
Because, you know, like back in 1998, when I started breeding or 97, 98, 99, it was just like any cannabis plant that you were growing was going to produce bud and it was going to sell because it was all Humboldt County kind bud.
And it was so good compared to everything else, obviously.
But, you know, that changed. And one of the things that changed with that was people were coming to Humboldt not to buy, you know, a pound of this or a pound of that.
You know, they needed like 20 boxes then, you know, or whatever packs and boxes and all of the different, you know, increments of weed just increased tenfold over the years.
Now it's like, you know, if I provided seed for somebody who wanted to sell their shit a hundred pounds at a time, it there was just like at the time it was really hard for us to make seeds that would all fit together into that hundred pounds because they would look too different.
I mean, everyone wants to be able to bag up their product into the same bags and not have to sit there and say, hey, this one goes with this plant and this one has this plant.
And so, you know, for us, we realized and we honestly had an advantage because we had been breeding and stabilizing for so long.
I mean, you know, my dad, of course, but I like to help when I can.
And that's something that led us to be able to be releasing these super stable seed line.
But at the same time, every year we try to be full disclosure and we'll release plenty of stuff that we directly call pheno hunt lines.
If you're looking at our bulk availability catalog, it's, you know, all listed right there is a pheno hunt.
And those are the people that get those.
We'll partner with them.
We go and we take cuts off of it because we are able to be exposed to those varieties to find the winner.
So for us, it's like you can't choose, you know, the super stable or the pheno.
They're both essential for us to continue to develop and enhance the quality of our strains.
It's like our two paths and like, you know, it's tough because we're also making strains that are available in clone form.
Like the vanilla frosting that Kev's talking about, you know, there's tens of thousands of them being grown as clone and tens of thousands.
Same with the magic melon.
And, you know, what we hope is that they're all basically fall under that same genre of smelling like really smelling like melons and having a vanilla gas turpin like the vanilla frosting or like our blueberry muffin.
We feel like we've gotten that one to fairly consistently be, you know, blueberry muffin where it kind of becomes tough.
It's honestly when you have the purple and the anthocyanin and, you know, I've talked to, you know, flower breeders over the years who have been like, yeah, you know, it's hard to make something always turn out the same shade of pink or whatever.
But, you know, especially when you're doing from seed, but even from clone, you know, like even roses that are grown in one place are darker red than when they're grown somewhere else.
So, you know, there's going to be variation.
But at the end of the day, I think.
You know, Josh, I think it's you had something to say about just people being able to play with and make their own seeds, and I think it's it's important that said, it's like what Kevin said, you know, don't bet the farm, but ease into it and develop like how he on.
When we were on a break business class or take it.
Well, you know, this one specifically I was referencing is actually a marketing class.
And one of the things that we've been going over is how important it is for new ventures or new businesses to focus on long term partnerships, because there's always going to be someone that can offer you a certain something in the moment.
And it may be attractive, but what you know, you really need to be thinking about for longevity is who you want to be working with in five years and you know who is going to still be there and who you can consistently collaborate with on a good level.
And I think that's why you know what we're doing here today is so incredible because these are the exact people that, you know, we want to be working with in the future.
We want to be all working together in five years from now.
And, you know, there's a lot of out of town players in the business that are great as well.
But for us to really focus on developing our niche brand is what's going to keep us all afloat in the end.
All right. This is the moment we've been waiting for. Can we hear Josh?
You got it.
Yes. Yes.
Now I hope I can say something smart.
You know, I want to go back to GMO x cherry pie.
You know, all of the new the GMO crosses that we're seeing have just been so amazing for concentrates. Right.
I mean, in general, that is a pretty consistent trait that's passed with the GMO.
And so it sounds like implementing and diversifying with a cross that has that would be a great way to start up some concentrate selection.
And, you know, how important do you guys think it is to have, you know, that niche of concentrates or fresh frozen or, you know, flour that you're working for that over, you know, just trying to do all flour?
You know, the important way.
I think it's I think it's I mean, we could all we're all going to say kind of the same thing.
But I can I can say that I've definitely lost money freezing material to make hash out, you know, hash to make fresh frozen and not having the right cultivars and thinking, you know, earlier on in the game.
Like, oh, this is the best fucking smoke.
There's no way, man.
There's no way in like even even the run I just did of that that cherry pie lime that I got from you, Kev.
You know, there was some I was just a seed sift.
And so I'm I'm looking for her knees and shits flying all over the place.
So there's seeds in there. So it's it's it is what it is.
It's good, smokeable. It would have been good, smokeable weed.
But there were seeds there from her as it as I was pulling them and I'm looking for croak.
And so at the end of the day, I got bags and bags of the weed.
I don't want the seeds because they're from her knees, you know.
And so I put it in half and we got 4 percent yield on the dry.
It just happened. The most amazing fucking flower.
I'm just looking my lips over it, you know, digging the seeds out.
Right. I think. But it's all because of what that cultivars for that cultivars really cherry pie.
It's really good for the sesquiterps and they hold long in the joint.
That's one that we want to put in the joints for sure.
But for whatever reason, you know, I mean, we can talk a little bit more about those reasons.
You see about the wax and just the way the cultivars hold hold what's inside of the trichomes or, you know, the cannabinoids.
Some do do it better. You know, like we were talking about that black guap gold.
It doesn't yield either for hash. It's too greasy.
Just, you know, all the turps just wash right out into the water.
And, you know, but but for flower, I mean, I was even I remember showing Cav the seeds when I gave him the seeds of it.
I gave you the cut and the seeds, but the seeds were like six months old.
And I was like, smell these seeds, smell these seeds because it was it was holding that flavor.
And then the way I my layman way I think about it, it's a wax coating around the trichome.
It's holding that in. It's so strong, you know.
Is that the sesquiterpines? Can you elaborate more on that?
I mean, so that has a lot to do with how it's holding.
And then it sounds like there are some serious selections that we need to make when we're planning.
You know, certain things are going to be amazing for flower.
It's not even that from what I understand, it's not that simple.
You know, there's not not a simple way to describe. I can't say go hit the monotropines for this and the sesquiterpines for that.
I mean, you can do a degree with with it, with the joint.
You want a sesquiterpines that's going to hold long in the joint.
But when it comes to making hash, you kind of need a little bit of both.
And I don't have enough knowledge base to really elaborate more.
But there's but I can tell you there that there's some cultivars that pop up so loud in the bag and you open them up and they're just whoa.
And then you smoke them and it tastes exactly like that. And it's really fucking cool.
And then there's some cultivars you open up and it smells like raspberry and you smoke and it tastes like a trash can.
And then there's some, you know, I mean, it mixes up quite a bit in there, you know.
And so it's really about it's really about nailing down what what the actual thing does.
And so kind of to get back around to the answer of the question, my buddy Kai at Pacific Northwest Roots, he's a hash guy.
He's a kind of one of those hash legends out there. At least I look at him that way.
And he handed me five cultivars just last week. GMO, Cherry OG, an interesting.
We had the Kaya's coffee and there was a ghost did a cross up.
So so Gene did his Lime Pop Kush on the OG on the ghost OG, which I have from Freeborn Selections.
I ran that this summer and it's really good. But then Ghost did it the opposite way with he did the same cross, but the opposite way.
And so Kai, I got up, got some tea to that and did a run on it. And it was a really cool one that held.
So, you know, it's right back around to what Kevin was saying.
And it's kind of what I'm approaching this discussion. I'm learning as well.
And so in his talks, I'm like a student, you know, and I'm hearing that.
And he's anyone we talk on the phone. He's saying the same things to me.
You know, it's like this long extended three year conversation that I've always been having with you, Kev, you know, whether it's when you're talking publicly or on the phone, you know.
And and so anyways, I'm like leaning on those solid what we know that are going to yield six percent hash, eight percent fresh frozen, you know, like that's where the money when you do the metrics, that's where it's at, you know.
And so I'm going to be heavily on this year and I have these cultivars that I am doing cartwheels over for smoking, you know, but in my environment, I need to I need to lean towards hash producers because that's my environment.
I can't be guaranteed a flower run. So I'm leaning on that for the money.
And in the greenhouse, I'm doing the other stuff that I'm really excited about, you know, just just quickly.
Technical production, Josh, can you are you wearing Bluetooth earbuds?
Yeah, can you kill him because with Bluetooth earbuds, the audio clips, I don't know why that is, but anyway, Nat, welcome back.
And by the way, how psyched are you that you have a daughter who's in the family business and crushing it?
I'm pretty pumped. She's is taking business classes and she's just actually like I'm like, oh, shit, I guess that was good or I guess that was a dumb thing I did.
I feel like starting the business classes, I honestly thought they were going to be like, you guys have been starting all wrong.
But, you know, the first thing that they go into is like it's not all about developing a super thorough business plan.
Like if you really know how business works, you can plan as much as you possibly want to for Monday and you're going to do something totally different on Monday.
And I was like, thank God, because that's my weekend.
We always do a different Monday, but she's taking botany, too. And I am incredibly stoked. I'm super proud. I'm a proud papa.
And, you know, when I'm not nagging at him, she keeps me in check sometimes. Good.
It's awesome.
I used to drag her by the ankles out of bed for Arcada High. And now she kind of drags me back to metric or whatever it is that I'm supposed to be doing.
Yeah, I mean, we've come a long ways from me being in the pack pack heading up to the grill.
It's definitely been quite an experience, quite a journey, but we're excited to see where it takes us for sure.
She wasn't. She was born into it. She was literally in a backpack hiking down the mountain because it was like, you know, we were like freaking broke when I came to Humboldt.
Like, well, and once you got a baby to feed, you know, you're going to do whatever it takes to do that.
He said that by the time I was about one and a half, I had gotten really good at ducking branches.
Oh, man. Well, I think that if we're in it this long, all of us really want to continue doing it.
You know, it's not like we're here because it's easy. I can't see myself doing anything else.
I love to grow cannabis and I want to do, you know, whatever we can as a group to support each other.
And I think these discussions should just keep going. We can talk about cultivars. We can talk about growing methodologies.
And as long as our quality is there, you know, we'll stick with it. Survival right now, Kev, I really appreciate hearing what you have to say about it and thinking about development.
I'd love to hear the discussions you have on esters. And really, so if we're talking about that small percentage where we're doing some R&D, you know, where would you love to see the legacy producers go with that R&D?
Are there certain special cultivars that you think should come back around?
Anything from historical, like cyclical trends that you would think would come after a perp trend?
You know, once people, remember perp, the color is a pigment. Pigments are flavonoids. So it also is a flavor.
Right. And so we desire certain flavors over time. And then all of a sudden you get burned out on perp and you want to go back into green.
And I think the issue we have is that we don't have a centralized bank. So, I mean, I'm really fortunate. I have a tremendous library that's all held in vitro.
So it lets me hold things for time. So I don't have to worry about when it comes back into vogue. I'll just go mine it back out of the vault.
And I know that all things return. And I think that when it comes to esters, what we just found was that, remember when I, years ago, I categorized cannabis in this really simple way to view it.
So that it made it easy for people to understand that we can look at this massive picture in some really simple divisions based off the way that customers see it.
And those divisions were really defined by this swirling matrix of a relationship between caropheline, myrcene and pinene.
And the pinene-limonene relationship dictates how we view the fruit category. But what they've discovered through the last three years of more in-depth research through Dr. John Abramstein was it was really esters that define the fruit.
And the problem with esters is they're extremely volatile. So they're volatile alcohol and they flare up really quickly.
And what that means is that for the small farmer, a supernatural expression that's heat sensitive is almost dangerous for us.
Are you my crackling or is it you guys crackling?
I think it's Peter.
Okay.
So I think the point of this is making sure that we're not overdoing it.
Yeah, I'm definitely hearing the crackle here. Kevin, let me mute you for a second. That's weird.
I'm trying to.
Hello? That's weird.
All right. So I don't hear the cracking anymore. So Kevin, let me unmute you. Go for it.
All right. We better?
Yeah.
Okay, good. So the point is that, you know, you need to hold as much as you can from time because what you want to remember is that when people make a choice, they chose it.
The customer said, you know what? We like this shit so much. We want to smoke more of it.
And next thing you know, there's a billion dollars that have products sold on the market.
What you need to do is keep a copy of that thing because for some reason, a billion dollars worth of sales quantified its value, whether you like it or dislike it.
It's really irrelevant. Your opinion doesn't really matter. You're the producer. You're not necessarily the one who navigates products into the future.
So what we do is we hold on to these things that have value because we know that people liked it.
We know that the trends will return because they always do. There's very few things that doesn't have a back and forth.
And I think that what you have to do for the craft farmer is to make sure that the thing you're aware of more than anything is that the supply chain is a total fucking disaster.
And that if you put your product into that chain and it's not bulletproof for the chain, you're going to look bad.
And that's something that I see constantly. And even, you know, it's funny, my son, my son is just like Nat and his daughter.
You know, I got a son I work with in cannabis and it's just a beautiful thing to have.
But he worked retail for probably eight years and now is in distribution.
And it lets him let's him kind of see the different perspectives about the speed of cannabis through the system and how the craft farmer is so vulnerable to the distribution issues and how good distributors are really cautious about how they handle your product, how they try to figure out the movement of your product.
Because otherwise what they're doing is they're just selling pot and they're diminishing their own reputation, too. And they're not allowing the farmer to get any kind of a claim.
So if your brand that you're trying to build is getting ripped down behind you as you build it, you're wasting your time building it.
And that's that's the difficult part about it.
Brand that we have now is to be based really off of clusters of farmers who are in the craft zone of scale and work on trying to get the best possible product with a somewhat financial consideration, where at some point there is a trade between we make more money and we sell more.
But right now it's a survival situation because you're not getting paid heavily for your fine or cannabis.
You could be the most organic cat on planet Earth and it's still going to fit into a specific category.
And so you have a limited amount of time to be able to do that.
But right now it's a survival situation because you're not getting paid heavily for your fine or cannabis.
You could be the most organic cat on planet Earth and it's still going to fit into a specific pricing point because otherwise they can't make the money on it as it moves through the chain.
And so you have a limited choices in what you do.
And I think that what you want to be able to do as a farmer is to kind of take a look and see like where's the research and development going?
You know, like the auto flowers are fascinating to me because they previously were not very palatable due to the fact that the northern latitude cannabis varieties they use to force that that trigger it muddled the high muddled the flavor profile.
But really in with auto flower, it's only a gene.
So you could take any plant and flip that one gene inside it and make it auto flower.
And so instead of having to work with, you know, diminishing the quality, you can you can have quality.
But the problem is, is the customer has a bad connotation of auto because they remember smoking the ones that came out first.
So what we need to do is we need to be able to start having auto showcases to where you have the auto cup to where you start having presentations on auto quality.
So what it does, it starts to allow the customer to experience and say, hey, that's pretty good.
I try that. And then what it does is it allows you as the outdoor farmer to come in at a better price point because you don't have to worry about pulling tarp and putting up tarp infrastructure and having that extra tag on your your permit cost.
It's always going to be competitive monies.
And I think that's the issue that we're facing no matter what we do, is that that bottom line dictates our truth no matter what we want to do, because we no longer have the ability to play the game.
The costs are fixed. The people that you hire have to go through OSHA.
If you have more than one employee, you have to have OSHA.
You have unbelievably, you know, regulatory oversight.
You have that metric compliance specialty people help you if you're not good at that.
And I'll throw a bone out to Oxalis because I love them. They keep an eye on me.
And you need to have this support in order to succeed.
And because of that, there has to be revenue.
And if you're not making any money, you're screwed.
And so the main thing is, is if you are if you are taking a look at what's happening, look at the farmers around you, see where they're having success.
What are the people in your area having success with?
It'll let you know that those things as cultivars work in the environment pretty well.
That gives you a little bit of surety.
You stratify what you're doing in terms of harvest time.
So you have things that come out early, things that come out later.
So that if you're having weather issues, fire issues, you have something that you can make money on.
You're accepting the fact that the majority of the cannabis you're going to grow is going to go through a machine.
You're accepting the fact that it's going to get handled a little rougher than you'd like through its movement.
So you're having to constantly, you know, identify what handles the movement.
And that that stuff isn't that hard to figure out.
It's really anything, anything that your partners have been pushing for a while around you.
And those those relationships you're building with the crew around you, I think are the most important ones you can have,
because I don't think anything we're doing today we're going to use in the future, except for like retro comeback,
where at some point when train wreck is desirable, that will mine out of the train wreck jar.
And all of a sudden people will go through the Renaissance and experience what was train wreck.
What was the wonder of that plan at the time?
Because there was really nothing like it at the time that was, you know, so available.
I think that's what you want to do is, you know, get your education up to spec,
but be really, really clear headed about where your business is and how you're viewing it
so that you can survive the next couple of years because we're still not out of this trough.
This incredible explosion of cannabis consumption,
if you notice, correlates to the fact that all these people in America suddenly received a couple thousand dollars a month money to stay at home because of COVID.
More money than they were making at their jobs.
So when all of a sudden you infuse the US economy with a trillion dollars and you're giving it to people who are trapped at home,
where do you think they're going to spend that money?
So I think I think we have a real consumption situation here that's not quite real.
And as soon as we see some of this disposable income diminish,
it's going to make you it's going to make it become a little more dangerous in terms of how many people are buying and what can they afford to buy.
And and how do we slowly start to be able to develop the market awareness that lets people realize that a bag of craft goes longer than a bag of commercial because you get a better experience from using it.
And when you're able to figure that out as part of the price point, you realize that 50 bucks is worth more than 40 because you're going you're getting more than the 10 bucks in value.
But that's going to be a process. That's like the whole Gandhi process where the the Gandhi program launched.
That's all designed as an education program to help the people who sell cannabis understand how to look at cannabis from a really broad perspective and then focus this time goes in so that they can help the people who buy cannabis.
It stores understand what is it that they're looking for?
How do you direct them? How do you show them nuances? How do you let them say, hey, look for the price point?
This is the good deal. If you want the epicurean, this is that point. These things just have to take time.
And it's our it's the people that sell the cannabis at the stores that dictate the truth.
And the problem is they get paid minimum wage or a little bit above.
And so you have these people that get paid relatively little and they're responsible for the entire craft farm situation in the state of California.
So you've got 700 stores. Let's say there's 10 employees average. So you got 7000 people moving all of your flower in the state of California.
Now, that's it's frightening. So those things just have to be always said so that as the farmer, you realize that all the choices you make have to end up at the end result.
And anything that doesn't get you to the end was a failure.
We're going to have a cat piss cup, too, when we can all get back together.
Nice. I had the cat piss for years, too. I lost it.
But man, it was it's beautiful to breed with because it just adds that sharpness to stuff.
But it kind of reminded me of almost like the Skittle where it has a more fragile body, a little more prone to rot issues, you know, like a softer flower.
But man, it had a savage, savage high.
What do you take in something like that? Do you think everybody's perception of what cat pisses is?
I don't I mean, I don't think it's I don't like someone who's coming from San Diego in the early, you know, late 80s, early 90s versus someone somewhere else like no.
What they view as cat piss.
Anything that's trendy, right? Like most cats that aren't around the actual cut have no idea what it even is.
Right. And so if I can go get a Mylar bag off of Amazon and pack your shit in it and then tell you that it's runts and you don't know that it's runts, you just know that it looks like runs because it's supposed to be purple and it's supposed to have flavor.
And it is and it's got some frost. It's runts.
So the problem is that I mean, for years I had people bring me plants and they would let me know this is my favorite cut of this and I would run it out and I would let them know, dude, it is a great plant, but that's that's a Jack Herrera, not a purple.
And they'd be like, no, no, it's a purple. It's incredible.
And I said, I know it's an incredible Jack Herrera. It was so good.
It made you want to believe that it was what the person told you it was.
It just doesn't mean that it is what you want it to be.
It's something different.
And so when it comes to like moving plants or or or pushing hype, few people have any clue what anything real looks like other than cats that are in the game fully.
And even if you're in the game, if you're not touching the source, you're still not touching.
You have to touch it.
You have to touch it.
You have to touch it.
We were going to go the other day or, you know, like six months ago and we were talking about the sour and I haven't grown the sour and I was like I had one that came across.
It was it was able to sour.
And as we were describing it, the whole room looked at me and was like, no, bro, that ain't the fucking.
You know, I was like, OK, yeah, all right.
You're right.
I just know what came the label of what I you know what I mean?
Like, so we screw ourselves up like that.
We move so much headband at one time is sour that we couldn't move real sour.
So when real sour packs came in, we couldn't move them because the people thought that that was a knockoff of sour when really it was real sour because we had been pushing them so much headband, telling them it was sour because that's that's the game, you know.
And so the whole the whole industry was based off of trying to trying to catch hype and then market it.
And so things that were the cat piss with the cat piss, but something that was cat pissy, which is like a good super silver, like a good super silver.
There's a cat piss, you know, to where it just reeks like you can't peed in your hat.
But that doesn't mean it's cat piss.
It just it's describing a scent.
And so the problem is it's just like the old perp.
The old perp described a plant, not a color.
It happened to be purple.
But then when that became really hot, we started finding all these plants that produced heavy but didn't have that same flavor profile.
We were called pretend because.
And the faux purples, but you were selling the shit out of them because nobody knew the difference.
Only certain people knew.
And then once the knowledge base comes now, you have to go back to being honest with the plant.
Well, the problem is, is that our whole industry is built off of that that bait and switch.
And so the situation is that when we have discussions on what a thing was, did anybody actually ever touch it?
You know, so the idea that, you know, herb from the past was bunk is was is I always laugh because I'm like, yeah, all this, all this bunk weed from the past created all this incredible shit today.
That means like seven generations ago, you were your family was troglodytes.
But somehow over the last seven generations, you refined into you.
It doesn't happen that quick.
So the quality of things in the past had to be there.
They had to be present.
But we just not that many people.
Almost like if you look at sports, you know, and what the sports players were doing 25, 35 years ago, any sport to what they're doing now.
Same genetics like just refinement, just refined, stepped up.
But but those human entities, that's the gene pool.
So Jackson today, if Bo Jackson played today and he had the medical ability to get the hip healed and he had the better nutrition and training, his genetics wouldn't shine in today's world, too.
So sometimes, you know, outliers are outliers.
They just resonate through time.
There's certain things they just do.
You know, I get I just got an old Northern Lights cut from San Diego.
That's probably like 97.
One of the nasty pine ones that looks like it's got buttered turps, like where you it's got so much grease, it looks like it was smeared on it.
And then all the trikes are kind of crushy looking where they're almost like not rounded heads, but kind of like ovals and squish down.
You almost can't see the flower.
And I'm laughing because it couldn't be any more triked out than it is.
And I was that's from, you know, the mid latter part of the 90s.
So, you know, killer stuff was killer.
It's just that we've we've we've added things or change things or perspectives have changed.
But the the the thing that that's why I like what Eleanor Coons is doing.
She's she's a brilliant girl, too.
She's doing the you must know.
And she does the book prints where she prints the she prints the leaf.
And so what we're trying to do is, you know, get plants that have been scrubbed so that we know there's no viral contamination of these area, which changes leaf appearance.
And that way you can start getting that can of graphic.
You can start having the the the the file of what the cannabis plant looks like in healthy form.
So you can start matching and identifying leaf shape and traits and the taxonomy.
And then we can start having, you know, broad chemotyping information brought in.
So we can start to all agree that Nat's train wreck is the train wreck because it was the one that he used from the beginning was the one.
Now, so he's been here a long time.
So he's had his hands in the cookie jar up to the elbow.
So for cats that have been touching it heavy, they they have access to the things that built the blocks that build today's blocks.
But it's trying to get new cultivators to be able to sit down and take a look at these things and smoke them and kind of understand how we're really only using a relatively small palette.
And we're we're painting unbelievably complex pictures with very few colors.
And to me, that's that's that's just the the ingenuity of the underground cultivator all these years where with very little support, you've got to see really, really stunning work develop.
And it's in the next wave that comes out where we're able to do like molecular breeding, where we can start trying to expand the palette and open up the number of colors that are used so that we have more choices.
But it never means that you supersede the pigments that are on the page already.
You're not going to get rid of them.
They're priceless.
But we just have to get the education with cultivators on what are you actually looking at?
Why did it why did it sell?
What were the sociological conditions around it that stimulated it?
Like, oh, gee, right.
Oh, gee, he's not number one anymore.
But maybe years ago, I did all that research on OG and an opiate use relationships.
And I said that OG was his direct replacement for opiate and that because of it, we wouldn't see OG diminish and push until opiate usage shifted.
And so opiate usage shifted because they schedule to it instead of schedule three, which it was, which reduced the amount of opiates.
The pharmaceutical industry was allowed to push into the system.
And subsequently, you see less people on opiates because they're not as easily prescribed.
And how do you know that that's the truth?
Because you go fentanyl coming in over the border as a replacement for opiates that used to be easily accessed.
So the number of opiate usages is slowly diminishing.
OG's connection to that group, which was like 40, 50 million people, slowly starts diminishing.
And all of a sudden, OG isn't the number one variety.
But it doesn't mean that OG is going to disappear.
It just means that the sociological conditions that are occurring around that variety influence tremendously the impact of that variety on the system.
PERP was something that was easily seen under streetlights, highly identifiable, held up in a blunt.
You had a time period where they wanted something that worked there.
And it did. And it launched.
But they're snapshots, they're windows of what something did at a time and what was the impact and the desire.
And that's what we have to kind of see so that you're able to understand why people consume what they do.
The how is always what people are into, but it's the why that makes the money.
People that know why tell people who know how what to do.
And so for us, that's our job is to understand the why.
Because we do the how with farmers.
That is our thing.
But it's the interpretation of what's pushing these consumptive patterns and how is the market responding to it?
And are they are they are they embracing it so fully that it goes on for 20 years?
Because if you had grown OG for 20 years, you'd done fine.
And so people are flipping constantly.
But if I did OG for 20 years from about a year or two and then 20 past, I would have been one cultivar would have made money the whole time.
So it's trying to understand those factors, which which means you're having to look outside your world.
You're having to take a look. The mushroom is a good tip.
The mushroom revolution means that people are looking for more ethereal type interaction with the world around them.
So you're seeing an unbelievable increase in psilocybin therapy, both through legal means and through you and your friends are just micro dosing because you want to get rid of some depression.
That means that on a mental level, you're starting to see people looking for inner clarity and greater mental expansiveness.
And so what does that mean? That means you're going to start to see the rise of cannabis that satisfies that direction because people are going to start want to say, listen, if I'm looking for this uplifted feeling, the whole world around me is crumbling.
Instead of me getting waxed on heavy opiate direction high, I'm going to seek the polar opposite.
And so as soon as I started seeing psilocybin broke up, I said, whoo, we're about to see a societal shift in what people desire.
And you're seeing it both young and old, but you're starting to see it'll open up the potential to start to work with the varieties that people from the 70s used to consume.
And then we're unhappy when the 80s came about because they didn't like such heavy pot.
They want a pot that made them feel good, that made them want to dance, made them want to be able to art, gave them clarity.
And then the next wave of cannabis was very devastatingly potent, powerful cannabis.
And because it could be cultivated indoor, it just instantly shut down that whole production of those other pieces so that it made it look like that nobody wanted it.
But it was really people didn't have access.
They still wanted it a smaller portion, but it got compressed.
And now that we're back into these new models, hopefully as we go forward, some of the cultivators, just like one of the farms I just saw, the 4000 foot farm from Willow Creek.
I would love to see some of the cannabis coming off that height because they're getting such incredible exposure and they'll be able to find varieties that work well at higher altitudes.
So that your cannabinoid expression is more connected to the original source.
And maybe we'll see, you know, sensations, experiences that are coming out that we just haven't had in a long time because none of us have been doing it.
Farms aren't specializing in it, but that's to me, you know, that's what makes me excited.
That if you see what's going on, you can always see new potential.
It's just a matter of making sure you don't get caught up in your own belief about what it is and accept that the market dictates that truth.
And your belief dictates your production truth, how you cultivate, how you form your relationships.
That's where you are solid.
But when the market tells you they want this, that's what you give them.
And when they want this, that's what you give them.
But it typically isn't every year.
It's not back and forth, back and forth.
There's trends.
There's a peak.
There's a decline and then a new direction.
And most people get into the growing or they get the cultivar at the peak.
And so every moment from that moment forward, it's falling in velocity.
And what we're trying to do is take a look and say, look, if you're seeing this psilocybin trend, then this is the time to start working into these varieties.
So for me, I want to start doing some kaigro, that Congo hybridization.
I want to start bringing some Malawi into it that let me get varieties that work well in Humboldt County.
And cultivatable, but incredible in their quality form.
Things that commercial facilities wouldn't mess with.
Things that typical processing manufacturing doesn't want to have to screw with because they're a little more fragile.
But if we could work with it, when this thing reaches its peak, we'll have things that fit that need.
Yeah. Thinking about the ethereal cultivars and then, you know, Malawi, Colombian, those are all going to be such long strains taking, you know, 10, 12 weeks.
Are there any I think this is an important tip.
Are there any, you know, of the floral fruity and earthy and the other?
But what of those would you say cultivars are the ethereal?
And then thinking about the high elevation, do you think that all of these different varieties would be thriving and able to do, say, I want to do all of the different, you know, four categories at my zone?
Do you think that's possible or do you think that focusing on just one or two is more important?
Well, you could you could do it within every within every division of how we perceive terpene profiles.
There's going to be plants that will and will not work.
And it's just a matter of always choosing, you know, you have to do your R&D.
What works for you? What I know is I did the R&D on the Congo and I realized that I could pull it off, you know, early to mid-November on the hill and it came out beautiful.
So it let me know that it works. If I go into some true, but that was a selection that Congo was in at four and it worked in the Canaries and it had been selected for reasonable season.
And so if we're messing with Colombians and I got to go take it into December, I can't do that on my hill.
I don't have that ability. We'll leave that to Colombia.
The idea is not to try to replicate their conditions.
It's to try to figure out what can we grow here that we can enter into our market?
And, you know, people are worried about other countries selling cannabis in the United States.
And I'm like, I tell them it's like travel, you know, with your U.S. passport, you could probably go to 180 countries.
And there's probably only like 10 that you had to get a visa for.
Most every other country in the world, they can only go to 10 countries and they have 180 visas they have to apply for.
It's a lot harder to get into the U.S. than it is to leave the U.S.
And so I don't necessarily see other countries flooding our system with flour.
I can see it as derivatives. I can see it used in edibles. I can see it used in other products.
But not in the flour form itself, because you're going to have to go into international shipping to get it here.
And you're going to have to be able to get it into the U.S. market in the form that they want and need.
But for what we would consider ethereal primarily is almost always what would stuff would be in the floral zone.
And the best examples of that is like super silvers and jacquarares and any of the hazes.
And so those spicy varieties, they just seem to have the similar woody profile.
The Africans do. Some of them have some carrot. The Angolas have like a high carotene, so you have a carrot flavor.
But same thing, sandy, earthy, woody. Every now and then you'll get a little citrus pop in.
I was doing a lot of Malawi work for a couple of years, and I found a male that just had a lemon that came off of it
that was almost like too pungent to really be around. It made your eyes water.
So it was like it was an anomaly. So I think what it comes down to is you're looking for some diversity,
but for the customer, you utilize those categories so that you understand that cannabis breaks up
in terms of some basic divisions on how people understand scent.
Distributors work off of a different model. They use three words, Invisi-Viva, hybrid.
And so distributors, basically, majority of them want things that fit those categories.
Well, they'll say, all right, what do you got? And you'll tell them about this, this, and this.
And for you, you figure out where you want to stack your deck.
And what I know is that it's fuels and earths seem to go well together. That would be dosy-dos.
Anything cookie is earth. Anything gas still sells. Anything gas hybridized in anything,
you bring gas into some fruit, you bring gas into some earth, you bring gas into some floral.
It's basically almost everything on the market today. There's a few outliers that swing around that.
But if we go which direction, more gas or more fruit, but they're both still present.
So you're not seeing such strong separations. You're seeing swirls of it.
And I think that when we get back to having, you know, 15,000 stores,
you'll start to see a much greater definition of what those things are based off of where is the product sold.
Certain communities, certain demographics prefer certain things more.
So if my storefront was in a place where we had a lot of, I would say, more infrequent smokers, newer smokers,
we would see lighter fruit tones seem to move heavily through there.
But you get into a neighborhood where you got a bunch of career burners, they want heavy fuel with a little flavor.
They want heavy earth with a little flavor. They're not looking for a light, flavorful popsicle.
I mean, they want to get smashed with this shit because they can experience it.
It's the same thing with wine. Do you want it from sandstone? You want it from limestone.
One of them's more sharp. You want it with a greater diurnal swing.
It means it's going to have a little more tannin. If it's got less swing, less tannin.
Most people prefer mild. But with cannabis, when we talk in our populations, it's the opposite.
All of us career smokers want shit that burns like a tire.
You know, it's because we're almost cigar smokers in the palate.
But for new users, not so much so. And you have to kind of figure out where is the sale taking place?
Where do the stores that buy the product typically end up?
And a lot of this information is tough because you start to give out your information of your business on what you're doing.
And everyone is so afraid of getting screwed. No one wants to give anything up.
But the thing is, if you can make friends with other people in the industry, you can have conversations that really aren't as formal.
And you can just ask them what's hot and what's not, what's moving.
Just like, I'll throw now to plug, the blueberry muffin is one of the few varieties in all of cannabis that can actually get any fucking traction at that THC percentage.
Because it has all these other characteristics that you just can't dispel.
And so it has an ability to stand up to inspection and purchase, even though numerically it's not ringing the fucking bell.
But because he hit every other piece that could be hit on it, it allows there to be a sale.
So like that's an outlier in a market. And since he's sitting here, I'm throwing it at him because I know I'm talking to distributors.
So Kadoo is because I know you've been working on that forever, but you did a wonderful job a long time ago with it and it didn't get fucking less good.
So you maintain the integrity of the work. And what it did is it built a good name.
If the people who want a good mouth, they want a good nose, they want a good workable high, they're stoked.
So not many things can do that, though. There's not that many that are developed on the branding to where people will take it and push it because the distributors are afraid they're going to get stuck holding it.
And so it's a tough one, man. Every step of the way, this shit is real.
And for me, I kind of have a weird duality where I consult with companies that are fucking big as in the world.
And so I mean, I actually I talked to I talked to so many people. I can't even fucking talk about the conversations. I'm sealed tight.
And I'm a craft farmer. So I live in this weird duality where I'm trying to live a craft farmer existence because that's who I am as a farmer.
But my my vision of cannabis and my vision of business is the other one.
And so there's always this, you know, this ripping of the two pieces apart and then you're having to constantly stitch them together because otherwise you're not whole.
So it's just it's a really tumultuous thing. And I think that that's most cultivators is that they struggle with this.
I want to be this person, but it's so financially punishing that I don't know if I can.
Just quickly before anyone responds to that, Nat, do you guys have a gift basket in your car?
A giveaway basket?
Well, Lindsay, I thought you had it with you.
Yeah, Ryan had it.
Did we lose the giveaway basket?
Yeah, why don't we announce the winner and we'll find out.
I don't have it.
I have a photo of the gift basket.
All right, we've lost the basket.
I don't have high confidence, but who is the lucky winner?
Who's shit we already lost before we.
All right. Who's the winner?
I know. Lindsay, you know the winner?
No, no, I thought we're on hold.
Judy, we don't have a basket for you and we don't know who you are.
Someone.
Right. Someone won.
But we'll be getting them to you.
We're really excited about that.
And we have another giveaway after this for everybody who is.
We'll have to pull this together.
We'll pull something together.
It looks like you've had a lot of people sign up, which is amazing.
Oh, yeah.
There was actually about 20 things in each basket.
And it's not cannabis, but a lot of fun hats and swag and things like that.
So, you know, that was a fast key break when you're talking about.
Oh, here we go.
Oh, it looks like we have our winner, Carl Smith.
Carl Smith of Farms is our second.
Carl Smith, please send your your address to below Creek Canna at Gmail.
We'll get that off to you, even though I can't show it to you right now.
If you go to our I.G., we've got a picture of it.
Yeah, I'm sorry. I thought you guys were giving it.
I didn't know. Anyway, we had to go get snow off the greenhouse.
And then we got stuck on the road because it was like taking forever to get back.
So we pulled off this point and just hung out there for the last couple of hours.
The snow storm was no joke.
I know the snow off the greenhouses that takes priority.
Yeah, but but we had a great gift basket.
It's got all kinds of swag and stuff like that.
And, you know, we just encourage folks to contact us via our Web site.
And we're pretty responsive. So if folks want to get seeds or whatever, you know, it's hard with all the licensing stuff.
But there's ways and Satori Wellness has bulk seeds for whoever.
So we can do it that way, too. But reach out. We're really responsive.
Well, and this is a great way for everybody to, you know, check out the Willow Creek Cannabis Alliance.
If you want to go to our Web site, we feature all of our member farms.
And, you know, part of the goal here is to be able to encourage other communities of, you know, independent producers to work together.
Humboldt County Growers Alliance was there and still is very supportive of us.
It's helped us with all of the admin and organizational details as we're building.
And, you know, it's given way to talking to people in Soham and the Matole and all of these beautiful regions.
And, you know, we've all got something you need to offer. And I think talking about these, the development is really exciting when you're thinking about Appalachians.
And, you know, kind of the wild card with Appalachians is to think about how you would define what cultivars that you would choose.
And, you know, talking with all of the farmers that would work in the Appalachian program.
A lot of people wouldn't want to specify, you know, you wouldn't want to pigeonhole yourself.
And I think a big part of this Appalachian development, one of the things that we still are learning and trying to figure out is how you would do that and define your region's cultivars without limiting yourself.
Because adaptation is so important, especially in this new game.
So we want to be able to have innovation and, you know, nod to the past, look at the old cultivars, see what's working, bring them back around.
But I think with that, it's going to take a lot of time. I don't think these things will develop overnight.
But working with people in your region, you can have that kind of development come along.
But, you know, talking with Josh and Nat and everyone here, you really have to have this collaborative vision to work together to do that.
Because you can't do it on your own. You know, even if you're producing all kinds of, you know, large batches of things, like Kevin said, no one person can be the brand or even a region.
Because we just don't produce enough, which is kind of the beauty of the craft farmer.
You know, you get the small batch quality and everybody wants quality.
Well, so this gets to my question. The Humboldt County Appalachian ice cream cake and Mac.
I'm joking.
But you got to remember that, right? Appalachians really came into play, you know, a couple hundred years ago in Europe to start to bring more value to historical regions.
But the data was an accumulation of about 700 years of Jesuit research because the Jesuits were paid to grow wine for the church.
They also kept the data. So all of Mendelian genetics, almost all observable genetic traits that we use for breeding, that was from a monk.
So the church funded an incredible amount of stuff.
And that that ended up turning into industry. And so when you looked at it, at like Italian wine, if you're in Italy, your highest designation means you're using native Italian grape.
It doesn't mean that that wine sells more than the level below it that uses a French vine.
It just means it can't have the highest level of distinction as an Appalachian.
When they came over to Napa, when Rothschild came over to Napa to go fuck around with Mondavi and they start to develop the Appalachians in Napa, they can't use the Appalachian because they don't have 700 years of grape history.
So what they had to do is they had to create an AVA.
They had to go to a lesser standard. And it allowed them to be able to start saying, OK, look, we know that for these Appalachians in these other countries, so much of the story is the vine.
But with cannabis, you know, we'd have to be in Afghanistan. We'd have to be in India. We'd have to be in China.
We would need to be in Asia, regions where you had thousands of years of cultivation, where you could actually say that this thing has been here forever and it's what represents the selection from the region.
So when we started really working on the Appalachian project, you know, my argument with the state was you can't lock us into anything because that's not functional.
We're too new an industry. And so we don't have to follow the Appalachian standards exactly because Napa didn't. Napa is not an Appalachian. It's an AVA.
They went about it differently to fit their needs so that it worked for them.
And I think that what you have to do is get the essence of the Appalachian, which is an impact culturally, meaning that there was a historical relevance of production in the area, that the place that's producing the product has an impact on the flower.
And those two things we can most definitely say come from most of these cannabis regions where you have historical cultivation and you have a known impact from the environment and the soil biology air on the plant itself.
The genomics, that's a developing an issue. But the bottom line is someone might just say, listen, the Mac is the best thing I've ever grown on my farm. When I grow the Mac, people buy it like wouldn't believe they love it.
I would like to grow it for the next 20 years. And is that a bad thing? You know, and so with cannabis, I think we have an ability to say, yes, we're producing one thing per region or we have the ability to produce one thing in common with other farms in the region and also produce things from our farm that only we produce in small batch.
But it still gets to fall under the Appalachian standards, which allows you to put the branding on it and benefit from the state program, which is really designed to help advertise for you. I mean, that's the whole point of the Appalachians is that you're getting state support. Otherwise, it's just the word.
We want to be able to have craft cultivation communities, maintain the home ownership, maintain the farm ownership, maintain the cultural connections, all the things that these other countries wanted to protect and do. And if we dilute those portions of it, we don't get taken seriously in our program. But I think that you can argue with any group.
There's just no 700 year data on what vine works best. And so, you know, if you're in Napa and you want to grow a cab, there's only one vine that pulls 95 points. And so you know that you're going to get half the yield, but you also know that you're going to get the only vine that can go over 95 on a rating.
And so there'll be producers that say, look, I'm going to get this much less, but I make this much more and I'll work with it. And there's those that say, look, we can work on a common variety that we can all use as a common production standard, meaning that we take a single cultivar, each farm produces X amount of it, and the region pushes that out into the world.
All of those are all appellation possibilities. So I don't think we should lock ourselves into anything genetically, but most definitely lock ourselves into cultural connections, historical relevance and impact on the cannabis plant from our environments, because that's something that can't be ever replicated. No science can ever take that away from you. That's your historical worth.
We can hear you.
In your guys's places in Northern California, whatever the three or four counties there, you're all craft small farmers. Everyone's not going to drive to every one of your fucking farms, which are like two to three hours off of the main drag sometimes to go have this cool boutique experience. I would love that the world was that way, but it just isn't.
I don't know, just hearing what you're saying. It's got to be different in the way the different regions approach how we're all gonna do this on a boutique level. In California, Northern California, you guys might need to adapt some of these maybe Swiss cheese or fucking champagne type models.
It all goes into the hole and we call it fucking Garberville, fucking whatever, or Sohum or whatever. I don't know. But think about it all and to put that discussion out there that it's very different from the guys coming up in Wisconsin that might be listening, that have hopes of getting a license and being the small veggie farmer type version of a cannabis farmer, where people come to the farm and they're like,
you go to the farmer's market versus producing 20 hectares of carrots.
Yeah, so similar standards and practices and then the cultural connection that can really bring it in. And I think it's so great because it can benefit the whole region. So just because not everyone is going to fall into the model up for Appalachians, but when you're highlighting those standards and practices, it's going to help the whole region.
It's going to just create this recognition and then it just gets the conversation going on more ecologically sound practices and the discussion on diurnal swings and terpene production and how that's going to affect things and the complexities from season to season.
It's this beautiful thing that people can look at for craft production. And yeah, looking at Bordeaux, they really focused on quality and the standards and practices and very strict. And then like Napa has the tourism model, ABA.
So like you said, Josh, I mean, our farm is easily three and a half hours from the nearest airport and it's up a dirt road and you're on the top of the mountain. Like we're not going to get a lot of tourists up in our area. But then you look in the valley, you're only an hour away and you've got the river and you can highlight those things too.
And same with Soham and there's so many beautiful things that you can highlight, but it brings it back to that discussion on regional organization, working together with the supply chain and all the things we've been talking about.
I think it's going to be really interesting in California when we finally have our state Cal organic certified cannabis to be able to kind of really get a pulse on how many people give a shit about that versus how many people just want THC at a price point that's,
you know, attainable or whatever. And I mean, I tend to think, and my hope is that, you know, if craft beer takes 20% of the beer market, that cannabis consumers are going to be, you know, easily much more than that 20% are going to care just because of the, you know,
type of people that tend to enjoy cannabis and the fact that it, you know, we're going to jump into it with all of those options, like right there for them already, because, you know, this is kind of a craft bootstrap kind of industry from the gate. And, you know, I think it's going to be really telling how organic cannabis fares against, you know, conventional.
I think out of the country is where our value is on that. You know, like our, like for me,
Or out of the state at a minimum.
Out of the state. Because I think that, you know, when we get right down to it, you know, all the small farms together don't really create a tremendous amount of cannabis. I mean, until you, I mean, I took a look at 22,000 acres of it. Once you see cannabis in a global scale, it kind of changes what's big and what's not.
And so for us, if we could, if we had these regions that produced craft and you had the craft consortium, the globe could easily consume that. But when we're just all pouring it into the same storefronts in California, no one gives a shit.
But when we get it out across the borders and we get it out across the continents and we can move it around, then I think we have a really good chance. And that's to me, like my dream too. My dream is to be able to produce cannabis that's dictated by experience.
And none of the numbers matter because we know that none of them really matter. Ultimately, you matter. The person matters. The numbers are just things that we use to quantify shit so we can kind of explain it to other people. But ultimately, when it's good grass, I don't give a shit.
So when I smoke pot that I really like, sometimes I don't lab it at all because I don't care. I'm keeping it for myself. And whatever it has in it, it has enough because obviously I'm keeping it. And then if I want to look at it from a more professional perspective, that's when we start to try to limit the conversation and we break it down and we use our science to say, well, it's this.
Even though we know it's a really truncated view of what this is. And so for me, I have the same hope that, you know, my goal is to, because we're going to start this year building the farm where I'm going to come in and we're going to start bringing in native topsoil and native amendments and then biological products from my farm to start trying to create as much of a Humboldt County input as possible so that I can start to follow this organic model and create it.
So over the next five years as I'm building the soil and I'm building this situation, it'll follow that model because the organic model and the appellations kind of go hand in hand. And I know that the organic, it's a word and I know how all this came about.
It's just that what it does, at least it creates common language that consumers can understand. When you start using other phrases, it confuses them. And so you can follow the organic and you could go far past it. You could become the most probiotic regenerative K&F wizard on earth.
But as long as it fits within that organic certification and doesn't do anything outside of that, that they're not allowed, it'll let you use that word. And that word is what has the movement through things. So we know that there's only a single aisle at the grocery store that's selling organic, but at least they had to put an aisle in. I remember when it wasn't even a shelf.
So if the whole world could just give us an aisle, I think that the craft farmers in most places in the world would be able to work with it. And then the commodity farmers around the world will take the rest of it. Because even with craft beer, you're really talking one company owns 30% of all beer. So one third of every beer sold is Imbev.
And so of the 800 brands at the local co-op, almost 700 of them are all owned by two companies. The other ones are the small little brands that are still push producing their products. And that's kind of what scares me with cannabis is that if they make it too difficult, the craft farmers sell their farms and those pieces get acquired by other companies as part of the portfolio.
If you look at Napa, Napa is really not a wine producing region as much as a tax shelter. So they produce wine, but you are really writing off your capital gains on your tech investments by owning a winery, which lets you functionally kick the living shit out of your neighbor who has to grow wine to make money where you are needing to lose money on that. So you're not paying it and gains on your other companies' taxes.
And so that's the kind of shit that scares me because what I liked about and I still love about being where we are is that you have human beings living next door. And as crazy and as eccentric as these fuckers are, that's what makes our region so awesome is that you got real human beings being themselves and that lets you be yourself.
And that's so much of what I worry about with not surviving the next couple of years, not getting the people to work together in some kind of collaborative capacity, because what will take place is your farm will be worth more just to sell and you'll sell it and you'll do something else.
But the problem is when the craft farmers are gone, the people who replace them might not necessarily be craft farmers. They'll be companies who have a craft farm in their portfolio. And that's very different. That's an extraction from a community, not a replenishment.
When you have people living in the community, making money, spending money in the community, now you have a sustainable community. And Humboldt County has been a story of colonialism from the beginning. This place has been nothing but extraction and destruction.
And that's what I'm afraid to see because for me, I mean, I'm in my mid-50s. I've had a good life. It's my kids that I really want to see this flourish. I want my children to be able to benefit from the cannabis farm so that something that was important in our lives gets to continue. Hopefully they're able to continue it.
It would be a beautiful thing to see third, fourth generation cultivators in California. Are we going to get that far? And how do we do that?
So I have a question for you guys. And actually my wife's texting me and I'm very excited that my Chinese wife is down for back to back Italian nights for dinner.
Nice!
That's a little win for me.
What are you having?
Well, we're going to order takeout, but it's Italian. And last night we had Italian sausage and pizza and pasta and arugula salad and tomato. And so anyway.
Nice!
And then like the three nights before that was all Chinese food, which I love too. But for all you guys, I view breeders and farmers kind of like musicians. It's like I'm talented. I'm a great jazz musician. I'm a great guitarist. I'm a great this, great that.
And then it's kind of like we're in the mid 80s and like pop music is dominating or the early 90s and grunge or disco in the late 70s. And it's kind of like here's. But then you have like a radio head that comes along and like pushes boundaries.
So in terms of cultivators and breeders like. And the reason I brought up ice cream cake and Mac and stuff like that, it's kind of like it's like what are the current trends versus what I personally like to smoke?
And when do we get to a point in time and also currently, if you think percentage wise as someone's farm, how much of what they personally truly like should they be growing versus kind of the trend stuff? And this goes for breeding too.
I mean, if you're a breeder, you have to be paying attention to the dessert strains and kind of what's hot right now, even though even though that may not be what you give a shit about at all.
So I guess my you know, and then like Nat, you were with Jason either earlier this week or last week or whatever, like what were you consulting him about what he should be growing this year as a, you know, multiple Emerald Cup winning cultivator?
You know, so someone at that level, like, does he have to chase trends or can he be like, I'm talented. I have my own palate and my own taste, and I'm going to confidently put that out into the market.
Well, you know, we're all we were all just kind of making our best guess. But one thing he told me was, I want to grow what I like growing. And I feel like we definitely do a better job at doing something when we enjoy doing it.
And one thing that, you know, 20 years of breeding or, you know, really, to be honest, like 15 years of breeding, with a lot of thought being put into it. I learned that, you know, it is okay to follow your instincts.
And, you know, I there were things that I thought I might just have to, you know, forget about that have come back to be really important parts of our breeding program. And but that said, you know, I think it is important to also clearly pay attention to the trends.
And, you know, it's so hard right now to know exactly what's going to be really popular. But I think that we're coming into a new, a little bit of a new realm. And all of a sudden, lots of things are popular. I mean, it only 10 years ago, like, eight years ago, people were just like, all they wanted was OG Cush seeds.
And, you know, we kind of had them, but it was like, you know, seeds wouldn't always come out the same. And so people wouldn't, you know, oh, it wasn't always perfect. And, and I'm so, so glad that cannabis has diversified so much. And now we can grow the things that we love to grow.
And people sometimes just absolutely love them. And, you know, occasionally, you know, nobody wants to buy them. And it's not I mean, I'm not talking about just the seeds or whatever, but the, the flower. And we talked to a ton of cultivators, like all the time here in Humboldt and across California, and want to walk in one day and say, you know,
I got some purple genetics from you. I got some strains that came out purple. And I don't ever give me any purple genetics again, because I could not sell them. Literally, the next person that walks into the office is like, all I want is your purple genetics. And like, that's all I want. And like, that has happened to me so many times that it's like, it's it's a, I'm confounded.
But I just know like, you know, it's a little bit follow your heart and a little bit pay attention to like what folks like Kev are saying who like, are looking at the big picture and the future. And if that's possible, it's like threading a needle this industry right now, you know, being in the cannabis space is, is so much heart and so much hustle, like, but just give it your all.
That's for damn sure. I mean, we can't have it. It's not a hobby any anymore. It's like, you got to give it everything. And that's, you know, it's hard on families. Make sure you like, you know, hug the ones you love a lot. And, you know, pay attention to your wives and your kids and everybody around you. And but yeah, that's all I can say, Peter. But I know everybody else can answer that question just as well as I can.
I think, I think that, you know, a lot of people overestimate their palate. And so they believe that because they like a thing, everybody likes a thing. And so it's tough because, you know, like, I mean, I go to a lot of operations and I ask them, like, you know, where the where the basic genes come from?
Like, what made you choose these? Because they're getting their living shit kicked out of them, growing them. And they're like, well, these were here when we got here. So we just kept them. I mean, it's almost like, you know, it's an afterthought. Or they had, they had, you know, Steve came in and brought his stock. And I'm like, and who the fuck is Steve? And as if Steve mattered, you know, and it's this weird process of not accepting the fact that maybe you're not a marketing genius, that maybe you're just really good at growing herb.
And that you like stuff that no one else in the grow room likes, but it's okay, you like it, that's your privilege as a grower to grow what you like. But you just got to be really clear that other people have to want to buy it. So if you're growing a pound of it, then you can grow whatever you want, but you're trying to grow 1000 pounds of it.
There has to be another 999 people that want to buy that. Because you have your pound and now you have another 999 to go. And that that's really about like reigning in your ego, where you start to realize, you know, who are you? What are your skill sets? Where are you good? And that's where like, you know, teams come in that are helpful, as long as the person making decisions isn't the one holding the check.
Because a lot of times the guy holding the money makes the decisions, but he's actually the least qualified in the room to make the decisions, just the one who's paying the bill. And we've had so many problems in cannabis that it's made it extremely difficult to explain how to get out of a problem and how to stabilize, because the losses have been so heavy for so many already.
The main point is always just being very honest about what's taking place in the system that you're in. What are the things that cause you problems? What are your issues? In life, it's what you have least that matters. And I learned that as a diver because of air. Air is what matters as a diver. And as soon as you don't have any fucking air, boy, all your other problems disappear.
So we want to identify where we're weakest first. And when I come into any business as a troubleshooter, that's what I do is I attack. I attack everything I can that I see any kind of weakness in. And this way I can really kick the shit out of it. And then we can take a look and say, okay, can we can we work with that? Because to notice what people are doing well is awesome. But that's not what you're there for when you're a troubleshooter.
To pat you on the back for shit you're doing good that your mom could do that. What you need is somebody who's trying to figure out where the problem lies. And so a lot of times if you're not able to do that yourself, you have to kind of get a little round robin with some of your friends and you have to say, look, after we're done fighting it out with still friends, attack my hypothesis.
And that that that attacking the hypothesis is crucial. You have to be able to actually substantiate your your your situation and explain it. And if it's reasonable and logical in the explanation, it'll kind of come out. But if you if it's only it's in my heart, then that's very risky. You can't convince your if you have an investor, you can't say those words. It's in my heart.
They need to see some data that substantiates it unless you have an incredible track record of being heartfelt, driven, successful. But if you're not heartfelt, driven, successful, then you're just somebody who's emotionally driven. And the emotional drive is what we use to sustain ourselves through long days and nights. But it's not how you run a business. The business is run off in numbers.
That's what I wanted to add to really, isn't it? I mean, I hate to say it, but it's it's right now. It's all a bit.
But but but sometimes someone sticks to their guns and it pays. I mean, obviously, sometimes you just got to bite the bullet and be like, the kids are all loving this type of music. Like, I got to play that.
But that person usually is not the average nobody. It's it's the it's the older producer who finds the people making that music and says this music will work. It is not a lone individual who says, I'm going to go pop up as a solo thing and do my thing.
And there's always an outlier. But we would say the majority of times hit makers are touching you. And so we don't have any hit makers. We don't have hit makers in cannabis right now.
What we what we have is is industry destroyers through overly burdensome regulations. And so what it does, it doesn't allow any of us to really shine in the way we do.
And it only allows the large entities to move products through the system quickly. But the problem that they have is that their infrastructure costs are so incredible that they have to cut every corner in order to actually make profit, too.
Because they're not able to turn on the economy a scale that they'd like to, that they will be able to once you get out of state sales. So no producer I deal with, regardless of size, is anybody dancing around in joy.
They're happy that they get to be in a new industry. They're happy that they get to cultivate. For me and my son, when we're up the hill and helicopters are flying around, we feel great because we know they're not going to land in the field like they have historically.
So we're all we all get different types of satisfactions out of the out of the work. But the bottom line is, you know, your heart drives you with the momentum. It's what keeps you through the bad times.
But when when anybody says I trusted my heart, they also said if they're succeeding, they're also trusting their mind. And they're saying that, look, I see the pathway because a lot of stuff I did people challenge.
They said, look, you're nuts. I don't think it's possible. And I said, no, no, no. I thought about it deeply. Here's my thought process. Here's the steps that I leaped through to get to the result. Do you see how it's linear?
So I know that I don't have a lot of corroborating evidence, but I'm taking data from other things. I'm extrapolating it. I'm laying it out and I'm saying, look, I think I can see a pathway through.
If I say I have no clue what I'm doing, I'm about to jump off the goddamn building. Somebody please grab my belt because I would rather not crash into the earth because I was being emotionally stupid.
Like that's your buddies. That's what that's what having other farmers around you does. It lets me say, Josh, I have an idea. And Josh says, Kev, I don't like that idea.
Like when you told me you said, Kev, fuck that stuff, pour the compost on the ground and build the soil like that, because that's the simplest method since you already did it 52 times. So I said, you know what?
Well, it's these analogies. It's like, you know, fuck camp group. You grew this amazing fucking haze, dude. But damn, that's fucking good, Kev. But you know, that's not selling right now, Kev.
You know, it's selling now is cookies and fucking gelato. And you're like, goddamn, man, I don't give a fuck. I'm going to grow this haze. And then sooner or later, the haze craze will come and Kev will have his day.
He may have missed the other days, you know, and Kev might be or whatever, I'm just using this example, might be the guy that hits it on the nail, you know, he may be the guy that just couldn't withstand long enough to actually reap the rewards of what he was doing, which unfortunately is most of us.
You know, we're not able to reap the rewards of the preservations we've done, all of it because there's just not a market yet for it. But in music, I don't know, I love the analogy because I grew up in Seattle area, three hours from Seattle in Washington State, grunge era.
I graduated high school in 1999. I remember, you know, when Kurt died, it was a big deal all across our whole state. I was in the ninth grade, you know, but all of the music that was being produced and I was playing music, right?
It was, it had this, this, if you want to call it this grunge punk rock influence. But we went through soul, we went through jazz, we went through folk and it deciphered out. But to like someone looking at it at a thing, they'll say it's all grunge, it's all punk rock.
But it actually, these different bands and these different influences kind of broke out into one ended up being more grungy. And then they started creating new genres within like, you know, like if you remember Rage Against the Machine or like these rap rock groups that like, you know, shit just goes all over the place. And this is my late 90s reference on music.
Yeah, yeah. But like, that's, that's true of cannabis. And that like, just like how we've been talking about where, you know, it went cookies to gelato to runts, you know, it shit weaves, but we're gonna come back and hit the train wreck. We're gonna come back and hit the fucking Bubba Kush in the Bubba Kush.
Kevin, did you ever go see Max Creek in Providence?
Yes, yes. Over there. And what was it? Was it Lupo's Heartbreak Hotel? Yeah, it was Lupo's. And then there was that other one too. It's been so many fucking years. But yeah, no, I was a music fan. And then it was but it's the same thing. It's, there's, there's
cultural shifts,
you know, strong fruits, you know, except gases, etc.
The collaborative work you see, Johnny DeSalle and Gelman just did a Tangled Roots. So you get a you get a seven gram jar with an eighth of each one of the herb in the jar. And what's beautiful too, is that they're, you know, old friends from the neighborhood. And I think I think Johnny and Season are the only two people in Humboldt that have the full on tourist permit, where you can come in arms, you know.
And so wonderful because Johnny's on the billboards, you know, he's the face of the billboard for California cannabis. And a wonderful guy, beautiful story. But the Tangled Root concept of multiple cultivators bringing their, their flavor that they want to put into a container so that what it is, is it's less commercially marketable cannabis, but more exquisite cannabis from people who are saying, Hey, look, we only did X amount of this batch. But we think it's the quality.
My son got excited.
Yeah.
The baby's fired up. So just quickly, Judy. Judy keeps a tight ship and she has not lost her basket. Right?
Hi, Judy.
Don't be shy. Can you hear us?
I can hear you. I've got some weird feedback, but I can hear you, Peter. Okay.
So I guess that is this the third winner or Yeah, so we have a third winner.
And we we have a an actual prize for them that we know.
Yes. So we have a whole basket full of stuff. We have a lovely frisbee from Emerald Queen Farms, otherwise known as a rolling tray frisbee.
Aloha humbled hat all sparkly.
You know, it almost sounds like you have another computer in your room that's playing the video. Is that did that fix it?
You sound good. Is that better? You know what it is? I just still had the channel open.
I got it. I should have known. But anyway, let's start over. Right. So our winner for this basket is Raymond Burwell.
So congratulations, Raymond. You get your look at a cool cork hat from High Rise Farms.
And a beanie, you're going to your head's going to be well covered. Emerald Queen beanie.
Special soul spirit. Nice shirt. Great.
Sweet. If you're of that mindset. So, yeah, Raymond Burwell, just go ahead and send your address to Willow Creek Canada at Gmail dot com and we'll mail out your basket.
So can I put you on the spot? Obviously. Well, I've been modeling your delicious flower all night or all day.
Thank you. I go out for three hours. So how did you guys decide kind of your mix of cultivars?
I mean, this is all 2020 season. So we have like. All right. We have runts. Right. That's that's popular.
The kids know it. But then we have like Mother's Milk, Charlie Girl. That's another runts. And that's another month.
So from like runs to Charlie's Milk and Mother's Milk or Charlie's Charlie Girl and Mother's Milk.
We just always try my husband, Walter, who is our master cultivator. Right. He's a huge. He likes to smoke all day long while he works.
And so we always try to keep some, you know, sativa esque for want of a better descriptor, like activating strain on our menu at all times, even though they take a bit longer.
That was actually why I specifically chose because I was going to reach for the the Charlie Girl thinking that the lower THC would be less like Coach Lockie.
And then and then I read it and it was like stargazing. And I was like, this one's activating.
Right. So that's your daytime, you know, work all day on that. I mean, that Mother's Milk, I think we smoked a joint of it and planted a whole greenhouse in a day pretty much, you know.
So it just kind of depends on what you're going for. Right. And, you know, myself, I like to smoke at night to get a good night's sleep.
And so because we do actually have a glamping bud and breakfast at our farm, we're just over the line in Trinity.
And so we are just outside of Willow Creek, about 20 minutes on a lovely paved county road. It's easy to get to us.
And so we kind of modeled all of our strains off of our glamping experience. Right. So the stargazing is nighttime and you get to hang out and look at the amazing stars because there is nothing like being out in the middle of nowhere at night and seeing those stars.
You know, it's incredible. And so we just like to have an effect for everybody, because what we really want is to go for the consumer that cares about the planet. Right.
We try to do everything in the most environmentally conscious way that we can, including our packaging, including everything.
And so for us, that's sort of our niche that we're going for. And I think that that consumer hopefully is seeking us out. And so we just choose our strains based on having a wide range of effects for them.
And also definitely sometimes it's about what's available and did our cloning go well enough that we can just supply all our own clones or do we have to buy some. And then at that point, you know, sometimes you're at the mercy of what you can get at the time.
And, you know, so the more and more we get organized, the more we plan, the more we get better at this whole business game. Right. It goes smoother and smoother. But, you know, there's challenges every year. So.
Is there anything in the lineup? Whoa. Let me mute you for one second. Is there anything in the lineup that like Walter's kept going for years and years and years that he's brought into the commercial market or is this stuff? This is kind of what I keep getting to.
Is there stuff you guys are bringing into the commercial market that's stuff you truly love personally that you've you've kept going for years or decades because it's it's your jam?
To be honest, no, we're not breeders. You know, we're working on it. We're doing a lot of Fino hunting every year. And actually, like this past year, we got some great stuff that we're hoping to be able to put out commercially in this coming season.
But to be honest, we were full term outdoor for the past 20 plus years. And as we went through 64, we decided to switch over to light depth and that's all clone based. And it changed the whole game, you know.
And so we're just finally kind of getting that all rolling smoothly. So none of our genetics up until 2020 are our own at all. But I am excited for some of the surprises I'm hoping are going to come out this year.
And our superstar delivery driver Jody Star.
Hopefully keep me stocked.
I hope so. I'll make sure he does.
Okay, so we've announced our last winner and it's six o'clock. So any so the topic is cultivars selection for the 2021 season. Kevin, what do you hope just going around the Brady Bunch circle here? What do each of you hope to see people growing more of in 2021?
Forget what trends will be. What do you want to see?
You're muted.
You're muted, Kev.
What I'd like to see is I'd like to see cultivators be able to grow more what they wish they could grow.
You know, I would love to see a greater diversity in what's there. When you go to a nursery, you know, you might have 25 choices.
You know, and some people have like 600 choices, but they can sell you 10 clones of each. So you really aren't getting any fucking choice.
What I miss is I miss being able to see, you know, 100, 200 different choices.
And as someone who's a consumer, that's what I'd love to be able to have access to is to be able to find, you know, storefronts that have an availability, maybe smaller quantities, but you'd be able to get a diversity in consumption so that you could really go through an experience of not just what GMO does, but also what GMO does in terms of what cultivators are doing.
So, you know, GMO does it Josh's or GMO does it mine, but the 52 different GMO hybrids that came out that people all chose and said, hey, this worked best for my situation.
Look how I express it. And if I could see that, you know, I'd be excited because then it would let me know that we're starting to develop the education with the consumer about don't be afraid to try.
Don't be afraid to reach out and experience different products. Don't be afraid to try different farms.
It means we've educated the bud tenders to where they're able to help steer the sale into not just a thing, but into the experience.
And once we start having the experience start to be the focus, now you start to have true connection to the farm because experience is something that can't be manufactured easily.
That is real. And if we can do that, you know, we would start to see really a beautiful resonance in the diversity of the cultivator, what they like to do, who shined in what area.
My farm produces different than Josh's producing different than Lindsay's. We should all grow what works best for ourselves as a grower.
That's your cultivar. And then the chemovar is unlimited in complexity.
There should be able to start to be the diversity within it. So if I saw that, I know we were moving the right way.
Lindsay?
Yeah, the connection I think is so important. When we're talking about regional development, I think that connecting people to the place and to the plant and to the farmer, I think that is paramount.
I think my answer is maybe a little boring, but a big takeaway is I'd like to see as many independent producers survive as possible.
What I'd love to see is grow your best yielding, highest THC plants. Just survive so that we can get to that place where it's not 3 to 5% of your farm is just the things that you want to see for your development and region.
But I think that right now, with just the way the market is going, hit those high numbers, get the yield, do what's tried and true, I think would be the biggest thing.
And then work with your neighborhood. Get other people on board with those cultivars that are shining in your region.
And that way you can get more people to connect to them because it's going to be a bigger batch with everyone in your region.
Josh, what are you smoking on right now?
I am actually smoking on what I sent to Season. We were just talking about it. Post Malone is what I'm calling it. It's a Testarossa Black Clam Reserve Smash Up. I'm calling it Post Malone.
What was the WAP one you had?
Black WAP Gold.
Right. So you have Black WAP Gold and Post Malone.
Post Malone, the mother on it is Caramelone. It's a little secret sauce I got in the mix from a homie. And that's what he called it. He's like, that's Caramelone. And so, all right. And so then Post Malone came out of it.
It's greasy. It's greasy. It's really been fun the last six weeks. I've got two guys working with me, which I haven't had for a long time. And we fucking smoke weed in the morning. We smoke weed in the afternoon. And it's just been really fun for me.
And so we're kicking around as we're trimming it, harvesting it. What is this? And today I was like, you know what guys? It kind of smells like my grandpa's grease rag in his shop. The one that he just keeps using. And they're like, you're right. It's kind of like a stale grease rag. So it's really delicious.
I think the WAP would do well in Providence, Federal Hill, Boston, the North End, parts of New Jersey.
My mom's from Boston. We've talked about that. That's where she's from.
Yeah, you got to mark it. You'll have a built-in audience. They'll be like, this weed's for us.
But what was the question we were talking about? Get me back on track. I had something to say. I got distracted.
It was, what do you hope to see people growing this year?
I kind of back off of what both these guys said. But it's only been a couple times in my life that I've walked into a dispensary and been like, holy shit, all the weed on the shelves is really curated really well.
And it hits all the gambits of what I would want to see. And man, I want to meet the guy who sourced all this weed.
And so that's kind of the same answer that Kev gave, that I want to see that weed.
And I think the way to achieve it, we've kind of been talking about it, but is for each one of us to find that fucking thing that is the home run.
And we've all been kind of going on this thing where we can build these individual markets where I need to have six cultivars and I need to make my flower, my hash line, my fucking all this stuff.
And it's so much goddamn work. And I don't know, I would just like to see cultivators working with breeders, getting a cultivar that works really well and crushing that shit.
You know what I mean? Whether it's a dirty kitchen sink flavor, whether it's a fruit flavor or floral flavor or whatever the fuck it is, that we are impressed by loud, resilient things that just impress us.
Our whole culture, whether it's ice cream, beer, coffee, food, you can look at all these things that just overwhelm us.
I don't know. I kind of say the same thing over and over again, but I want to see every producer focus in and be more niche.
And so that every bag that it's opened up is just like, whoa, I produced the fucking Don Burger.
That's my fucking thing. And look at that Don Burger, bro.
And you're like, yeah, dude, he's the guy that the ruckus crushes the Don Burger.
And then we can walk into the dispensary and hit all those things and have a fucking cool experience.
Because I think that's how we survive as craft, is we do something really niche, really cool.
Because the big guys are going to crush the sativa hybrid indica shit.
You know what I mean? They're going to crush that.
But we can crush those minute little things.
God damn it. It took three hours to get the answer I've been looking for this entire conversation.
And I know there's top 40 weed and there's craft.
I'm not a top 40 listener.
And so for me, as I look at you guys, I'm like, I would like to smoke what Kevin Jodry likes.
I want him to curate what he enjoys.
I want Lindsay to be like, you know what?
And after you hit Kevin and he brings you on his personal journey, let me bring you on my journey.
And I'm like, fuck yeah. And then Josh is like, I'm up next.
Yeah, but Kevin's like the guy that drops the palette.
It's like, hey, you guys over here. Oh, you can play with paint.
You over here, you get to play with fucking clay.
You over here, you're glass blowers.
That's how I see Kev. He's just like...
Like as in he can blow glass while painting Van Gogh paintings?
He's on the whole scene and I just kind of see the way he is able to release cultivars and genetics and influence different people in different regions.
That it actually moves through the system.
And he has that kind of touch and it's not like a king at the top, but he's just doing it through his experience and really trying to help people out.
But I see that push going through the region and I kind of was just being a dork joking about it, but it's a cool deal.
A lot of Kevin. Thanks, Kevin.
But Kevin also has his own personal palette.
What I'm saying is, go back to all over the last nine months and listen to what Kev was talking about, all those cultivars.
And you'll see those things come up in the next year and a half with breeders and stuff.
And it's going to influence the whole scene.
That's kind of what's part of how I started to answer that question.
Yeah. Like one of the things I've wanted to do is, for example, Judy getting...
Like I have bud tenders who are like, I want to do a show.
I want to bring bud tenders on and farmers on and have a conversation where, you know, I'd love to get your lineup in a couple bud tenders possession.
And like Kevin and like everyone here and then all of us come on together having smoked it and have a conversation.
I mean, I feel like we can be less reactionary and more kind of setting trends and not having to respond to kind of, you know, people with the most Instagram followers setting the trends or, you know, whatever it may be.
You know, it's not totally easy, but I feel like I would like to be trying and smoking what you guys like and exploring other people's.
I mean, it's the same thing with music. So, Kevin, you're muted.
We're fortunate in what we do because we know all these other farmers.
So when I know when I want to get something that has a certain profile that I'm not playing with, I know where to look.
You know, I mean, that's always been the beauty of cannabis to me is that you produce what you produce and your friends produce what they produce.
And, you know, you get to take a look at their stuff and you can highlight and showcase it.
And the ability for the farmers, I still think that one of the best events I ever went to was that it represented Trinity County.
And the Linnea Dubois put it on over in at the Moons.
I think it was a Moonstone Cafe was over there on Merriman's. It was on the beach.
And it had maybe 30 farmers from Trinity that brought all their cannabis and it was private invitation so that it didn't have to be a licensed event.
And everyone that was invited was dispensary owners, buyers, distributors.
And it allowed all these people to meet the farmers and each farmer you got to hang out with for a while and see the product they brought with them.
And you got to smoke it and experience it. And it was probably the nicest event I'd ever been to in terms of just free non-competitive.
So all the farmers were really pretty supportive of each other, too.
So when you'd ask somebody, you know, you got anything like this? They say, no, we kind of specialize here. Go over to the other farm. They work on that stuff.
And that's what I love about the cool cultural component of cannabis is that you ideally you should be assisting each other in your brand development and in your marketing.
So that what you're doing is you're getting people caught up into the lifestyle of cannabis where cannabis is always historically been non-aggressive.
And so, you know, all the bullshit ends when you smoke. Basically, you can kind of see through the crap.
That's why I always noticed that Richard Dudes had a problem burning because it made him tell the truth and it freaked him out.
So you have an ability with cannabis to be able to market it in that way.
And that's what we really need to get to is, you know, when you have the bud tenders and the growers, you know, you get a couple different industry touch points.
Someone who's involved in processing, someone who's involved in manufacturing, someone who's involved in distribution, someone who's involved in the sale, someone who's involved in the production.
And then it lets you really kind of highlight the chain of events that occur and how each one looks at the product because each one has a definite impact on the final product.
You know, I would love to see some of that.
Because, you know, you're having some tough times, man, in cannabis right now, right? I'll just throw this one out here.
In 2016, if you wanted to take your historical cannabis farm that was up in the TPZ zones, one that you could relocate, but it was the historical farms.
2016, you had to make the application for your permit.
There's only 12 farms that have annuals from that 2016 spot.
I'm one of them.
So that means only 12 people in a humble county that had historic farms from that era moved forward.
Today, I mean, there's a few more probably still going through process.
But what you're seeing was this radical diminishment of the individuals prior.
And the cannabis community in the way they functioned was always, you know, if PACs were moving, people got along.
If people needed support, people got along.
If you got raided, I provided you with plants.
That's what I think still has to take place with us no matter what we do.
That you have to make sure that you're working on a collaborative level so that you're getting the customers to understand that they're not just buying pot.
They're buying into a lifestyle.
It's really what Nike is.
Nike doesn't sell you a sneaker.
They sell you a lifestyle.
They sell you the wing goddess of victory.
When you wear Nike, you're victorious.
And they did such a good job that they got you to buy the sneaker.
And for us, if we can help people understand that we had this incredible life that was beautiful and extremely free, that that's the connotation that you get from craft cannabis.
When you consume it and you get to experience these people putting this effort in, man, we'll have a radical change and it's coming sooner than later.
We just got to survive until then.
So the next couple of years, live, fight.
All right.
Which is perfect because that's actually the whole purpose behind the Willow Creek Cannabis Alliance.
So it's a great way to finish it off.
Survive until the Emerald Triangle can sell nationally and globally.
And by the way, Judy, I tell you all the time, we need to let the world know that Trinity County is part of the Emerald.
We need to brand Trinity.
Trinity!
We need to brand Trinity campaign.
It's still true.
With that, my two year old, who's three hour nap, has come to an end.
I got to run up and deal with her and dinner.
It's going to be a late night, it sounds like, Peter.
So we'll coordinate the next Willow Creek Hot Topic.
Yes, indeed.
We have three winners, two prizes that we know where they are.
We will find that third prize.
Kevin and Josh, thank you for the knowledge droppings.
And I assume Nat's phone died on him.
I love that they were just sitting in the car the whole time for three hours.
But with that, I think we can wrap it up.
And thanks everybody for watching.
I look forward to everyone growing what they like to smoke, but I know that probably won't be this year.
Only in your yard.
Yeah, exactly.
Only at the scale of six plants.
Only in your yard.
But other than that, yeah, pay attention.
Thanks, everybody.
With that, we will kill the live stream.
Thanks, everyone.
