the abilities to be able to get yourself contractual protection.
And I think with community protection and support is really just trying not to screw
each other.
You know, fundamentally, man, choose not to burn the guy you're doing business with.
And that seemed to work for a long time.
I mean, to me, it's pretty simple.
And I think that, you know, in my perspective, from someone who traffics genetics, what I
want to be able to see is, and what I've always done, is I've always given credit to the people
whose cultivars I use or material I use or information I use.
Because what happens then is you promote, just like Jason was promoting Nat and Gene
saying, hey, man, I ran your stuff, it was killer, my friends run your stuff.
That's a courtesy.
He didn't have to say it, but he wanted to say, hey, you know, you guys are some guys
that I respect and I appreciate.
And what it does, it adds a level of legitimacy that you can't add yourself.
I had this discussion with someone today about the internet saying, the internet guys tell
you this is how you promote yourself.
And I'm like, nobody really gives a shit about them.
It's just banter.
It's crap coming out their mouth perpetually and you just turn it off.
What you want is you want other people to validate what you're doing in an honest way
because that resonates in a way that you know is true because they're not getting paid for
it.
They're not a shill.
And I think that that's part of it is that, you know, you recognize other people's farms
and you commend the product when it's legitimate.
And if you don't have an ability to move your product, but you know someone who could move
product, you push that product and you make sure that person gets credit.
And with the breeders, you know, don't pirate their work.
You know, what you had a funny one because Gene's a meme king, but he was talking about
how they were renaming these varietals so they could just get rid of the breeder.
And there was this whole meme about how the breeder was diminished, minimized and wiped
out so that we can name anything we wanted.
But it's such a true statement because you're so desirous of your own success that you forgot
how you got there.
And I think when it comes to what the breeders that if you can keep them alive in the conversation
all the time in a courteous sense where this is the material I got from Jason, this is
what I used.
If you want to buy more, you can go to him.
If you've got questions, you can go to him.
You become in this incredible referral network.
And I think that the thing that protects you from shit in life most is money.
Your own money makes you pretty safe because you can afford infrastructure, tools, connections.
And that's really what we've been deprived of right now is liquidity.
And so we have to kind of pull up our skills until we can rebuild our liquidity.
But hopefully this bout of poverty teaches us how to behave a little more intelligently
in a communal form so that when we do re-rise up again as a craft culture, you're able to
actually take the education that we just got about how you better stick together or you're
going to die and then use it to create the models of protection so that you end up having
individuals that can do the work so that all you have to do is do your work.
And a lot of people would rather just grow and farm than have to spend all their free
time breeding too.
So I mean, that's my opinion on it.
It's you, you, you, you gotta, you gotta be honest with whose work you're pirating and
make sure you kick back credit.
Yeah, I'd agree with, with that.
Kevin, I'm sure you guys have had it happen.
I've had it happen where groups get a hold of your work and they rename it as their own
and they don't give credit.
And I feel like the history and the story is a big part of why things are appealing.
And so I always try to be as forthcoming and factual with all the information that we put
out there about what we're working with.
And you know, there's, there's companies out there that are just getting rid of the names
all together where it's, it's, it's the, all the, all the history of, of you know, hundreds
of years of people carrying this plant's just wiped away.
And now it's, it's this new, just a whole new way of categorizing things.
And you know, I don't know really how I feel about that.
I like people being inventive and being unique, but I'm also, you know, very connected to
the history.
And you know, there's something that, that might not sit so well about, about just totally
renaming people's stuff.
You know, maybe, maybe if, if you come up with a name for a specific pheno like that,
that could be okay, but, but still it's the, the, whatever pheno of this strain from this
person is still be honest about where it came from.
You can still name your phenos.
And as far as protecting your genetics, I think the open cannabis project or, you know,
somehow doc, documenting the genes as open source that's the only really other alternative
to trying to patent your stuff and keep other people from having it.
I want other people to grow it, but I don't want people to grow it and then take it from
me and say, I can't grow it.
That's crazy.
And that's literally something that could be going on right now.
We've got you know, a number of cannabis patents that have already been issued that are going
to be problematic in the future.
I'm sure there's going to be challenges to them, but I think one of them is any one-to-one
that doesn't have mercine in it is technically under patent right now.
Is that correct?
There's, there's, there's some, there's some very broad cannabis patents out there right
now and I'm sure there's going to be more down the road and you know, documenting your
genetics through, through, through groups like the Open Cannabis Project or, or, you
know, a way to, to combat that.
You know,
The chemo tech data is very important to you because that's going to fight against the
broad spectrum of utility patents.
The genetic data is totally important for a lot of reasons, but it's harder to translate
that information to a patent office.
So more chemotype data and getting donations for that would be really useful to have prior
argument for any overly reaching patent.
So anybody that didn't hear that, he was saying chemotype data is as, or possibly more important
than the, the, the you know, the genetic testing.
So yeah, and, and that, that can be hopefully a discussion all unto its own.
I would love to delve deeper into that and how we can protect the community's work as
a whole.
One thing I wanted to touch on is, you know, yeah, when, when you talk about, you know,
you're saying you're going to go try and sell your product to people assume self-interest
and so they always take whatever you say with a grain of salt, but if they overhear it from
their friend that says, no, no, his stuff's dope.
I like that or I like this type and, and you're, you're going to take that, you're going to
take that in maybe a little more deeper or, or what I'm trying to say is, is support your
community and the other people.
If you see something that you like, you know, let people know and hopefully others are going
to return the favor to you.
And, and that, that's, I feel how we build the community together and, and help, help
each other survive.
So, so you know, definitely I think people take it into account a little more when, when
they hear it, you know, around, you know, through somebody else or through the grapevine
or I heard that this, that's, that's how hype builds is, is, you know, people overhear from
somewhere else that, oh, that's the one.
And yeah, there is something that's, that's you know, genuine to that is there's, there's
reasons behind why those things got built up.
It can't all just be pure advertising or, you know, there's, there's got to be some,
you know, human element to why something you know, become successful.
And so yeah, just support, support your neighbor, support when they're doing good, let people
know it, you know.
And, and I think that, that from all of us that came from the era where you didn't rat
on people, which seems to be a foreign thought nowadays, ratting out on people, screwing
people over isn't ratting.
And so when he's saying, you know, make sure you support, make sure you also call out things
that you see are wrong because if they're screwing him, they're going to screw you.
And by the time they get to you, there might not be anybody to protect you.
So a lot of it is if you're seeing unscrupulous stuff, you don't have to get out and broadcast
it on the general world, but you can tell your friends, man, I get asked all the time
about would you do business with this person?
And I try not to screw anybody in a way that would cause problems.
But ultimately, if I know that you have a history of piking people, I always just say
the same thing, I would be cautious.
And what that means is that I can't give you a recommendation and that you should do your
homework so I don't have to go too deep into it, but it just says that I can't vouch for
you, but I'm not going to throw a rock at you.
That's throwing a rock at you.
And that's important because someone said, would you work with that distributor?
I'd say I would be cautious.
And then they realize that there's some reason because I'm not in a business against them.
So therefore, why am I having trepidation?
And it's because I saw something or heard something and I'm just like, look, you don't
need to get screwed either.
So you don't have to go and shish kabob them, but if people are doing good work, make sure
you let people know.
And if people are doing stuff that are unethical in a way that's going to really cause problems,
they're not going to hold back against you either.
Most people hold back because they're afraid of ramification.
Back in the day, it was they're afraid they're going to lose all their teeth.
Well, now that that's not one of the tools, and I don't really think it should be a tool,
but it was a very effective one.
You have to be able to use financial.
And financial is to protect each other and make sure that the people that are doing this
work aren't getting beat to death and that they're still around for you to utilize as
a resource.
And you have to preserve as many of these resources as possible because without it,
you end up having a shrunken population of partners to do stuff in the future.
And for me, like what I've done my whole career, I've needed the people around me because I
only can do so much myself.
And my success was really built off all these relationships I made with other people.
And over the course of time, we did better than we did worse.
So don't let anybody screw you.
So the licensing agreement, you mean you want to put some sort of licensing agreement with
the breeder?
Yes, yes, I believe so.
That what you could do is if you did a licensing agreement with the breeder, you could also
bring material that you have and do collaborative projects.
That material would then be able to be jointly promoted.
You'd be able to have stock that was unique to you because all the material from the cross
would be held.
The two of you could figure out what was the cultivar you wanted to release into the public
as production material, not as a cultivar unless you're building a nursery.
If you're building a nursery, then you say, hey, Nat, I want to work with you on a project.
I would love to take some of the stuff you're doing, put it with something I'm doing.
Let's find a cut.
Let's put it into the market.
Let's both be honest.
Did the shit work?
Yeah, this is a good one.
And then now both of you can do combined breeding and you can do licensing that allows you to
be able to use your respective IP.
And then you can then find individuals that you can license the clone to because one of
the problems is overproduction of varietals.
And so you end up out competing the success because you got too much of the same material.
And you know that I think that's crucial.
But I think a lot of us just need more legal help with that where we need to have more
people like Beth come in and attorneys that were like present.
It was great to have an attorney present yesterday because he could kind of say, listen, this
is how we see this happen.
And then you're able to get a better idea because I don't think any of us or at least
95 percent of us have been involved in patent protection of genomic material.
You know, I mean, I'm someone messing around with it all the time, but that's not what
I do.
I still have lawyers that I work with because I don't have time to go to law school and
I don't want to.
It's not my thing, but I need them.
Yeah, I think licensing is cool because really a license is just a contract between you and
your associate and certainly it's not as binding as something like a patent, but it's more
voluntary and I really, I do encourage folks to do that kind of thing.
I mean, like look at Gene's pre-roll line.
You know, that's in a way, like that's good for everybody because, you know, that pre-roll
person might not have had quite such a namesake or following and so, you know, it's good for
their pre-rolls and it's cool for Gene because he gets credit, all that stuff.
And just one more thing, like I keep hearing, you know, everybody, we're all a little scared
and we all like know that these big powers that have deep, deep pockets are coming and,
you know, you might sort of react to it and do something that you might not otherwise
do, you know, get rid of all your purple strains or something dumb like that.
But just remember that like when booze became legal, there wasn't like a Jim Beam or there
wasn't Budweiser or Coors, those kind of evolved out of, you know, their being quick and successes.
But then, you know, in the mid-90s, all of a sudden there was this thing that came out
and it was like microbeer and I never thought in a million years that there'd still be breweries
opening in Humboldt County that are thriving and just the same with wine.
But it takes a while for that to kind of mature.
Like you don't go into the gas station down over at Pier C or whatever and stick your
nose up at the new microbrewers, but you do at the, you know, maybe you do or maybe you
don't, but at the Coors, I like PBR, I don't know.
But that stuff hasn't had a chance to really like, you know, like the PBRs and the Coors
and the Budweisers of cannabis, no one knows that that's who they are yet.
And so it's going to take at least probably like another year, maybe two before that really
develops.
And what I'm really confident about is that the regenerative and the small and the real
craft actually then starts to have its days in the sun, pun intended.
And I think that's the same with strains too.
I mean, God, remember how fricking long it was just impossible to, you know, like you
just had to grow OG and then you grew a bunch of this really cool, awesome stuff for your
head and, but you just always, you know, kind of had to grow OG.
And I think that that's going to change too.
So you know, let's just remember that we are pioneers and like, I think, you know, what
me and Gene said about like, well, I'm not ignoring the fact that the market's saying
one thing, but I'm also not giving up on where my fricking roots are and where my convictions
lie and stuff like that.
