As whatever that is, it's the pig?
Yeah, that's Notorious P.I.G.
She is having a, has she already ate dinner?
She is having a fit because she has not had dinner.
Is she inside?
Oh yeah, completely inside.
Oh yeah, you gotta bring her on camera at some point.
Oh, I can do that here in a few.
All right, so we are live on YouTube
with our Creature Double feature for all of those who,
do you guys know what that means?
Kevin, you grew up in Rhode Island.
That's channel 56, baby.
That's right.
So just quickly, we're talking to Nick, Josh and Kevin.
This is the, this is hour number four of my YouTube day.
And that is me, Peter Saveri.
So anyway, so what I,
Kevin and I were talking, what was that, last week?
And you started talking about Nick's palate
and then you started talking about how he worked
with whiskey and barrels and oak
and I thought that was really cool.
So I'll let you guys take it away,
but that's kind of for me, the starting point is,
is your, you are olfactorily gifted.
I don't know if I go that far.
I've just had a, I've had a lot of experience
at learning how to open it up.
And I'm not a, when I got into bourbon
and I would be around master distillers and these guys,
they would use crazy words like apricots
and I'm getting the smell of dates
and I've never ate dates or apricots.
So I can't describe, you know, things of that nature,
but to be able to get into the barrels of bourbon,
it is so much like cracking a seed pack.
You can feel barrels on the exact same day
at the exact same mash bill, meaning 72% corn,
23% rye, 2% malt and barley.
And you can put them in a barrel right beside each other
in the same rickhouse and then come out tasting
completely different.
And I found it fascinating back then
as to why that was and to being able to select
the right barrels was the difference in being able
to sell bottles for upwards of $1,000 to down to $50.
So it massively mattered as to what the wood management
in the barrels were, what rickhouse it was,
what position the barrel was put
as far as the humidity and pressure.
Cause in the, I can take you over to my barrel.
Oh, I'm connected to an IV pole right now,
running fluids.
I'll show you the barrel in a minute.
I've got one cut open in my living room
and it'll actually show you that during the winter,
it pushes all the alcohol back through the wood.
And during the summer, it pushes it into the wood.
So that going back and forth through the charred wood
is what gives each individual mash bill
of bottles their flavor.
The same way with cracking a pack of, let's say,
Mean Jeans Lime Pop Kush.
You could see four or five very distinct
different things right there.
The same way of filling up those barrels,
you're gonna see different distinctions in the barrels
or the same way in breeding a working line
German Shepherd litter.
I've had 24 litters.
They're all Schutz entitled, entitled out.
I went to Europe to breed or bred to people over here.
Just because you breed that litter,
all the puppies out there are not gonna be working capable.
Some will go to agility homes, some will go to pet homes,
some will go to protection homes.
So to be able to bounce those three things together,
my three loves, they have fell into a way
which helps me appreciate all three,
whether it's selecting dogs, selecting females
or selecting bourbon.
I'm able to pull from each department
and it's able to help me so much more.
Just because I selected Fino that,
I sent Kevin a picture of a Fino the other day
that was stupid pretty.
And I was laughing with him
because I'm like, it has no smell, like no smell.
And that's how it works out sometimes.
I have seen barrels that have come out of like Heaven Hill
in Bardstown, Kentucky on the top of the Rick house.
I've seen a 22 year old barrel,
which they drilled into that zero bourbon left in it.
It had dissipated that much over the 22 years
that there was actually nothing left in the barrel.
So just because you go after something
doesn't mean it's gonna end up being the way
that you want it.
I have seen bourbon, for instance,
that was gonna be shipped to Canada.
That was gonna go into a multi-batch into Canada.
I was coming out of Jim Beam Distillery in Bardstown
and I was able to drill into those barrels
with Freddie Noe Jr.
I think this was in 2016.
It was during the winter.
So when you're in a Rick house in the winter
and you're trying to sniff bourbon,
like bourbon shouldn't be cold.
You're not gonna get the smells off of it.
The same way of trying to smell frozen cannabis,
the smell's not really gonna come off there.
That cold is gonna inhibit those smells.
The hotter it is, the worse it's gonna smell.
You know what now?
I said, but if it does,
if it's a frozen bag of stink,
and that says something, yeah.
And I've had instances of that where you're,
that's what I'm talking about here,
being in that Rick house.
It was December, it was cold as shit.
We're drilling this raw barrels and I'm blown away.
And there's 17 total barrels.
And I'm asking what he's gonna do with these barrels.
And Freddie Noe, grandson of Booker Noe,
great grandson of Jim Beam
was the guy I was in there picking with.
And they had a contract to send him to Canada.
I kept telling him how phenomenal
those particular barrels are.
Shannon, will you hand me that fifth of the wild turkey rye
that's over there on, or I'm sorry, the Jim Beam rye.
So to be able to pick that day and it being that cold
and to be able to taste it to that level,
I knew if I tasted it and it was actually warm,
we'd be at a different level.
If I can smell phenos in the veg stage
that are just stupid on the turps,
then I know that once we get in the flower,
we're gonna have the same thing.
They ended up, I don't know if you can see this,
ended up bottling those barrels.
And sorry, I dropped it.
Was that I picked that day
and it won world whiskey of the year in 2016.
The bottle now sells online for close to,
I believe $1,500 the last time I checked.
And it's got all the information as to the Rick house,
all that stuff that's on the bottle.
So that's kind of a roundabout way
of trying to explain bourbon picking.
I usually did it with a group of guys.
And if we were all in agreement
that a particular barrel was good,
then that was the barrel that we were gonna pick.
If all four of us were going through phenos
and all four of us are picking different phenos,
that's our personal selections.
That's not for the public
or something that you can market.
You have to have something
that the general market is going to like.
Me personally, I like old rye that is 20 years old,
more so than even bourbon,
but old rye is extremely expensive.
That's not something that everybody would even appreciate.
So when even picking selections now for me growing,
I'll pick a couple that are for me
and the rest of it has to be
for what the general public's gonna want.
And because the general public
isn't always gonna want particular weird phenos
that I'm after.
If that makes any sense.
Makes a lot of sense.
I mean, what I was just thinking about,
like as you were talking about that is exposure,
aka experience to a thing gives you the ability
and knowing the variables of how that thing operates
and changes over its time,
not just when it's being made,
but it's post production.
But that gives you the ability
to sift through shit real quick.
Cause you've seen a lot,
you've seen a lot.
And I remember like when Kev would talk about his stories
of going in on when he was working for the military
and I don't know, I'll probably butcher it,
but I remember you talking about it.
You had seen so much and smelled so much
and it gave you the ability
to just fucking identify really quickly.
I just kind of comment.
And I remember him talking about that.
He was doing something like going on ships
and underwater stuff with the Coast Guard.
He got to the point where he could figure out
where it's Thai or Panama or whatever,
just based off the smells.
And that's the same way, just off the smell,
I can pick where bourbon mostly comes from
out of the distillery.
And it's just experience on that.
But even without the experience,
you may be never having bourbon before.
If I put three quality bourbons in front of you
and three shit bourbons in front of you,
being able to bounce between the two,
you're gonna tell.
Even not having any experience there,
you can still be able to tell that quality.
Yeah, you know what I noticed too?
Right now you see an influx of people coming into cannabis
and the ones that seem to have some really interesting skills
in both production and in selection are from culinary.
They're culinary experts,
people that have a cooking background
because they understand process,
but they also have elevated palate.
And I've got some friends that I've met over the years
that I asked them, I said, what's your background?
And they were like, all of them were from chefs.
And they had the ability just to pick up subtle nuances.
And some people just have,
they're more sensitive than others.
And for me, like Nick was saying,
there's things that you select for yourself that you dig.
And then there's things that you select for the market.
And for what I've done for years
is release varieties into the market
where I go through other people's work
and I find what I think is the right representation
of that work.
Reminder, reminder.
So then I can put it into the market
and you're trying to catch the largest population
that you can so that it works.
And then unless it's something that's just so unique,
then you know that it's a niche population,
but it resonates hard enough in that niche to work.
But it's just really being honest about it.
And sometimes you're not the right person to sift.
For me, certain varieties, I just don't dig.
So if I was looking through Jack Herrera lines,
I know what a good Jack tastes like,
but because it's not my favorite direction,
it's not where I would rather be the select.
I'd rather get someone else to help me select that
just because it's not my favorite profile.
So you don't have the same discernment on it.
I can tell you that, yeah, it represents it well,
but it's nice.
That's like what you do in judging with a group.
It's nice when the group has different desires and tastes
because you can all really cover the facets pretty well.
Yeah, I remember, I mean, just to back to the food thing,
I did a little bit of restaurant time
when I was in Minnesota, I was growing microgreens
and I partnered up with a chef and he was gonna sell them
and I was gonna grow them.
And first thing he said was,
let's order every flavor of seed we can,
let's order 12 different mustards.
And we literally, we just did a test run and we sat there
and we went, and then we did some back and forth.
And then we ended up with these really cool combos
where we put three or four mustards together
to make a diverse mustard flavor.
And it was really just a blast.
And that was kind of one of my key steps
in remembering how to like think through different flavors.
And part of it is that people have a natural born gift
to discern flavors.
And then a lot of it is trained too, like anything else.
I feel like I'm kind of one of those guys
where I'm less naturally gifted, but I work hard at it.
And I do pretty well because I work hard at it
and I have a lot of exposure too.
And yeah, I don't know.
I mean, that's how they train waiters
and wait staff servers.
You sit down and you smell the wine, you drink it.
And I mean, hours and hours, at a good restaurant,
people don't realize the staff has to go through
a lot of training and eating the food
and tasting the wine to be able to describe it.
You got a wide background though.
Like you're someone that's also really liquor knowledgeable.
You understand liquor well, you know good beers.
You're involved in variety of food production
where you did microgreens for restaurant.
So it's about selection.
And so, to me, your approach to herb is kind of different
because you have a background that's diverse like that.
Because since I've met you,
there's never been a time I've hung out with you
where you didn't have something
that was phenomenal in your pocket.
You always broke out primo grass.
And the same with Nick too.
So every time I'm around Nick, it's the same thing.
He's got something that's just really killer in it.
And it's stuff that he's hunted and searched.
And so sometimes it's clonal,
you score a good clone for someone,
but a lot of it is the selection you're making from seeds.
You're either breeding and developing
or through work you're sifting from other people.
And I think it's what makes the two of you strong
at what you do because you both have developed taste.
I just call it, I use the word Epicurean,
but it just means highly developed.
And both of you have that ability.
I didn't come from a culinary background.
I was just swimming in herb my whole life.
And so for me, the herb kind of opened up
all these other fields of looking at
and meeting and understanding because I was so canna-centric.
But the ability to make good decisions
and then find how do you really determine
what is something that the people in the market want?
And what is the current trends?
And what's the current desires?
And how do you balance satisfying the market
and still being happy with what you're selecting?
It's a process, man.
Being a breeder is one thing
and then being the selector is another.
And sometimes I've worked with breeders where they said,
hey, could you go through some of my work
and find what you think represents the work the best
and then put that into the market for the public.
And it helps that I have friends like my partner,
Pedro, because he's got a phenomenal palate.
And so it allows the two of us to kind of play around with it
and then make the decisions like,
hey, who's this gonna affect and is it gonna work?
Well, that's what I do.
Have you smoked a minute ago?
What's he smoking on right now?
What you burning there?
You look happy.
I just rolled up Monson from Duke Diamond.
This is the one I was talking to you about.
This is so stupid.
It's a different level of garlic than like GMO
or the GMO cross I made.
And it's from the Northern Light 5 Garlic Cut Mom.
Totally.
I'm thinking if you put that onto that different specter
of GMO garlic, that it's just so unique, this garlic smell.
Kind of like Josh talking about the different mustard seeds.
If I could add those two different unique garlic
kind of body funk odor smells together,
I'm thinking there'll be something really special there.
Every time I open that jar, I smile.
It's when you light it,
it's the only breeder that really consistently
does this with strains is a Jackson Minjin from Minnesota
that you can put the joint out in the ashtray,
leave it for a day, smoke other things,
come back, pick it up, light it.
And it smells exactly and tastes exactly like it did.
You know, the first time you broke into it,
Minjin's pina is phenomenal for that.
I swear you could take a joint of that,
put it in the washing machine, dry it, light it,
it will still smoke like pina.
This Monson is the same thing.
And I've started to realize that that's a selection quality
that I want.
I will, I still smoke cigarettes.
It's my last big vice from my medical stuff,
but I will throw roaches into an ashtray with cigarettes
just so if I re-like them,
that I get the flavor of cannabis and not ashes or tobacco.
It may sound crazy to other people,
but that's how I'm able to even intensify
my selection process.
If you can still smell like roses coming through shit,
then you're a star.
Yeah, no doubt.
The roach that you light up has the flavor, yeah.
I remember you talking,
when I used to watch every video I could,
you were talking about how certain plants just,
they'll hold their terpenes in the jar,
but they won't hold it in the joint,
or they won't hold it after four or five hits
and things like that.
I'm trying to find things that hold itself
all the way through.
Especially making carts, making ryes,
and when people are dabbing that stuff,
and it's getting a lot harder.
If it keeps that flavor no matter what,
that's a golden strain I'm gonna make my money off of.
That's essentially what I'm looking for now,
is past the point of, okay, I like the looks of it,
I like the initial smell,
how do you stack up when you've been put through hell
and I still wanna smoke you?
If I've let you completely over dry,
or I swear Jackson's pina strain,
you can't, if it's not cured right,
most shit turns into a hate,
like a hate smell, a hate taste.
Pina's gonna shine through no matter what.
And in my selection process right now,
like trying to pair things up
that will accentuate that flavor.
I talked to you the other day
about how I put two gas strains together
and it came out all fruit,
like bubble gum and raspberry, makes no sense.
So sometimes it doesn't work out.
But sometimes, like I took a Eagle Tree,
Mount Baker Highway, Kenny's selection of Royal Kush,
and I bred it into the Royal Kush 9,
and then I bred that into Root Wise
and a selection of Royal Kush,
and it stayed true to Royal Kush.
I mean, you still got a little bit of a strawberry
and a chemical factor there,
but now I'm trying to narrow it down
into the one that will hold its taste and smell,
more of the chemical smell.
I don't like the strawberry raspberry as much.
It will hold its smell even in the ashtray.
Even if, like I'll put, right now,
I have joints in a cigarette pack
with half-smoked cigarettes.
That's disgusting.
I do it on purpose.
If the joint will still smell like a joint
and not those nasty ass cigarettes,
then I have found something that I can take forward
or even would feel comfortable taking to Josh
and be like, hey, I think this is special.
I want y'all to go through this
because a lot of the strains I grow
hold that smell in the jar,
but it loses it after it's crushed up in a grinder
and it's put into a joint and the heat is applied.
Third, fourth hit, it's gone.
So finding those things like Skittles.
Skittles is a, you were talking about that niche earlier.
That's kind of a niche.
It's a little different than everything else,
and that's another strain that Dark Horse Genetics,
I got to smoke some of those when I was out in Denver.
That was a strain that just held the taste
all the way through, and at first I didn't like it
because it was different,
but the fact that it holds through on that whole joint
made me appreciate it so much more.
When you taste the bourbon,
you'll get some shittier bourbons
that you'll only taste it on the front of your palate,
on the tip of your tongue.
You'll burn right there,
but when you can find that bourbon
that hits the front, the middle, the back of the palate,
even after you swallow it,
that taste is going to stay with you for 15, 20 minutes.
You're going to be sitting there like,
like still getting that taste,
and that's what I like about the selection process
right now, finding that, that I put the joint out
and I'm still sitting there like, okay,
this pure crush still smells or still tastes good.
It's still on my tongue.
This Black Lime Reserve is still on my tongue.
Those are the ones that really seem to fascinate me
a whole lot more,
and that's where I'm really trying to put more
of a mental selection process into right now
on the ones that will hold that taste.
Yeah, no, it's, you know, the thing is that if you can,
if you can get varieties that hold the qualities,
it makes it a lot easier on downstream producers
if they want to turn it into pre-roll.
The thing with pre-roll is that it's tough
because as soon as you grind it and process it,
you start breaking it down,
and if it doesn't have an unreal holdability,
the shelf life of the pre-roll just really isn't there.
There's a guy named Michael Bacchus.
I think his name is, I think Perfect Chief
is the name of the company,
but they're doing like a cryo pre-roll preservation.
I was supposed to get my hands on some samples.
Yeah, it's called Perfect.
Perfect.
Yeah.
It hit me up to talk to me
about trying to check out the product,
and we're just trying to figure out how to get a sample over.
But Bacchus wrote that, what is it,
Cannabis Pharmacopoeia, or it's a medical cannabis guide.
He's a brilliant author,
and they went into this cryo form of pre-roll
to try to preserve some of the qualities
that you don't get the degradation from time.
And the thing is that for, you know,
for regular farmers that aren't using that process,
you have to work off of selection.
You got to get skills in picking things
that don't break down in the process that you're using.
And pre-rolls are important for labels
because people can experience it quickly.
But for most people, man,
pre-roll damages your reputation and your brand
because by the time they get it,
it's a joint, it's like smoking straw.
So the stuff that you're hunting out, you know, is ideal.
I used to hunt things specifically for concentrate markets
where we would find things in the selection
that had, it resonated in the nose.
And if you steam distill the product before,
you can do this right on this, in the field,
you do a steam distillation of the flower,
you pull the turps, you add it to water and you drink it.
And that gives you that flavor profile
in the mouth right now.
And so you know that the concentrate high
is going to be strong because it's concentrated,
but what's the flavor like?
You can figure the flavor out
before you ever have to turn it into a finished product
just by pulling the turps off in a still
and then drinking them.
And so we went through,
that's where we pulled that creme brulee,
where we pulled it out of a huge selection,
you know, looking for something
that was going to be exquisite and extract,
that was going to have a flavor on it
that you just couldn't get around.
That when you consume it,
it absolutely just takes the top of your head off.
And that was, you know, I used to dig doing that.
I still like selecting the specific things
just because it lets you find a tool,
something that a farmer can use
to satisfy a specific situation that they have,
that they want to be able to deliver a product
and it has to fit a requirement.
And so with concentrates,
we wanted stuff that was unique and different,
but absolutely bold.
And with things that were going to be
in any kind of flower form that had any kind of storage,
it had to be able to hold the flavor
through a long-term storage.
So even when you broke the bud in half,
after sitting in a desk in an envelope for six months,
you still knew what it was.
And that's tough, man.
That's not, all grass won't do that.
No, and you know,
you know, I've just been learning so much from here
and a lot of folks on the internet,
you know, yourself, especially Kevin.
And the way my brain went was Michael Jordan.
What's his brother?
What's his sister?
Who, what, you know, or whoever else,
the extreme elite in their category.
It's obviously hard work.
You know, we can make the analogy all the way across,
but there's something about that person
that genetically there was a lot of genetics
that were happening.
A lot of babies were born in the world
before these elite performers or, you know,
in whatever field.
And so I actually, you know,
I got the blessing of putting on the conference, obviously,
and people are giving me a shit ton of stuff, man.
It's like, it just brings tears to my eyes
to think of how much people have given me
over the last three years.
And so I've gotten to look at a lot of stuff
and I've learned so much in that.
I found some outliers,
but I've also found a lot of stuff that is just real.
And this is no disrespect to anyone in general,
but really muddled and really similar.
And I found myself just not really being interested in it.
I found myself just not really interested in it.
And I think that's just like,
oh yeah, that's Kush or that's weed.
You know, like if I wanna, you know,
Kush is my flavor, you know,
like I really like dank, earthy fuel, you know,
that dog walker, Jackson's Sky Cuddler
has a really fucking sharp nose to it.
That stuff just really lights me up, you know,
but to me, that is like turned up, you know,
it really is, it's turned up.
And then they kind of branch off
into these different little areas.
That fuel background, you know,
and the dog walker has got,
I have a hard time describing the dog walker.
It's a-
It's complex, man.
Yeah.
That dog walker has some shit to it.
And that's what makes a dog walker,
like, you know, it's a dominant gas,
but it's got some really interesting directions with it.
And depending on how it's cultivated too,
it can pick up its background pretty well.
And so I see dog walker that is in general really good
because the variety is good,
but man, you see some ranges in its profile,
but it's all complex.
And that's what I like about a good variety
is that you can't just name it.
You have to smoke it 52 times in a row
just to catch the first five flavors
because they come at you so fast through the mouth
that you know they're passing through,
but you're trying to identify.
So you're having to keep puffing and puffing and puffing,
and then you're writing them down and you're like,
there you go.
Then you can start to know that the first five flavors
that hit, you've already seen them.
Now you can try to see what are the ones coming in the back.
And it's funny because your vocabulary
doesn't match the experience.
So you're trying to come up with words
to describe what you're tasting,
but it's not really fitting it,
but it's all you have.
So you get frustrated because you're limited
in your ability to interpret what it is you're doing.
And then your friend says another word
and you're like, what the fuck, it ain't that, man.
What are you crazy?
That's exactly it though.
You smell two strains that smell like gas,
yet they are separate than each other.
And you're trying to describe the different level of gas,
but it's still gas, yet it's a slightly different.
You hit that right on the head there.
Pretty much, I ran a bunch of Duke Diamond stuff lately,
and it's all very simple.
The local skunk, the Munson, the Polecat 91,
were all very, very similar in smell profiles.
It was the garlic ones I ended up pulling and keeping
just because I could describe them so much better.
So maybe that's from my limitation of my vocabulary
was able to say, I like these better
because I can put a pinpoint exactly on the smells
and the taste that I'm getting.
Nothing was wrong with the local skunks or the Polecats.
It's just that it would change so much
while I was trying to taste it or smell it
that I couldn't completely identify it.
I wasn't as comfortable with it
as I was something that I was more comfortable with,
having the vocabulary to describe it.
Yeah, no, it's weird.
Your ability to appreciate the product
and then try to determine what to do with it
has to be able to be understood by you so you can do it.
And so a lot of times, we're not...
That's why I was so interested in your background
through the alcohol
because it's a completely different skillset.
Just like the guys I knew that were chefs
that had developed palates.
And when they experienced cannabis,
they looked at it from a different perspective
because they had training in olfactory
and taste bud direction.
So it makes you wonder how much stuff
we've actually put to the side
that we were just kind of overwhelmed by.
And you don't know how to classify it.
You're not sure how to steer it to who would want it,
even though you know it's good.
But garlics are always...
Something about garlic though
has always killed it in cannabis
for as long as I've been in grass.
That garlicky, bitey, thick...
We're attracted to garlic as a food.
It's in so much and it's so popular in so many cultures
that it must be something that we automatically go for.
Just like sweets, your palate,
you need to look for sweet and salts.
Things you need to survive.
And I wonder if certain things in cannabis
just trigger those spots on the tongue and in the mouth
that make it automatic
to where you're just more inclined to grab it.
Regardless of trend.
What makes you want to smoke a strain
that smells like feet or body odor
or something horrible
that you would never like that smell in general?
If I walked around a person that smelled like that,
I'm like, this fucker needs some old spice in a bath.
But yet I smell that in cannabis
and I'm like, what is that shit?
I want to grow that shit and I want to smoke it nonstop.
So sometimes I find the extremes even more fascinating
in my brain to where Dr. Greensky,
he describes some strains like death,
decomposing body, things like that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's cadaverine.
I really want to smoke this shit.
Got its own terms.
I don't want to smell that in real life.
Like through dog training,
I've actually been at a body farm
where search and rescue dogs were working decomposing matter.
It stayed in your nostrils for three days in your clothes.
Like the stench and that wasn't a good smell,
but yet somehow some of this stuff translating
to cannabis into something like,
oh, I want to experience that more.
And maybe it's just the different flavor profiles.
I grew up in Kentucky, born and raised,
and I went to prison at 23 for growing cannabis.
So I got into alcohol.
I don't think I've told either of you guys this.
I got into alcohol because I was on parole
after I got out of prison.
I wasn't a drinker.
My daddy was a drinker.
So it just kind of turned me off to the situation.
And I'm on parole,
so I can only smoke weed one, two days a month.
So it can be completely out of my system
whenever they drug test me.
Well, I'm fine as Mexican brick
after they busted me for growing.
I couldn't grow anything myself.
Well, Kentucky was not a legal market in 2005, 2006.
It's still not.
Mexican brick was about all you could find.
I actually got into the bourbon too.
I had a little bit of a butt to the marijuana
because the marijuana wasn't doing it for me.
And then I started drinking the bottles and I'm like,
oh, there's 75 different bourbons on the shelf.
Let me try a couple of different of these together
to see what I like.
But that's the whole reason I got into alcohol
in the first place was to accentuate the experience
of Mexican brick.
Cause there was no smell of Mexican brick.
It was mold.
Well, there was smell mold, hay and depression and sadness,
but you still smoke that shit.
And that's what I sometimes get jealous of you dudes
from like Humboldt and Oregon and all that.
That I have access to all these strains that I told Josh
the other day on the phone, I've never smoked gelato.
I've smoked a hundred gelato crosses.
I've grown a ton, but to actually think that I like
pure gelato or I'm not sure if I've ever actually smoked
sour diesel, even in Kentucky, when we bring in packs,
it'd say sour diesel, but you never know.
So the alcohol was the reason that I started drinking
alcohol was just to catch a buzz off Mexican brick
while I was on parole.
And then I just wanted to accentuate that.
And now it's the same way that people are blunt smokers.
Tobacco accentuates cannabis, alcohol accentuates cannabis,
hell a mango smoothie accentuates cannabis.
Something that like, I think it's Alpine Glow Farms
out there in the Humboldt, they have this,
it's a live kombucha.
Well, the doctors wanted me drinking kombucha
or how you say all the time for the probiotics
with my medical stuff.
I mean, I'm actually running fluids and shit right now
as we're talking.
I'm drinking kombucha right now.
You can drink while you run fluids
cause it flushes it right out of your body.
Yeah. And I've tried all these kombuchas
and I didn't like them and I'm out at Humboldt
and maybe it's the environment and the environment factors
your perception of whatever you're smoking, drinking,
or even if me and Kevin got together, we were camping
and we only had Mexican brick.
If we're having a wonderful experience of catching fish
and everything else and our dogs are playing,
we're going to enjoy that Mexican brick.
So when I tried the It's Alive Kombucha compared to,
it was actually the Mac that you gave Josh
out at the conference.
I'm like, wow, that tinglingness of the kombucha
on the tongue and then hitting the joint,
I could pull flavor profiles out of that joint
that I couldn't pull before.
But it was cause of how like,
it just like makes your mouth go on fire
when you drink that kombucha or even kind of,
I don't drink Red Bulls or stuff like that,
but I have before.
They've got that wild taste profile
that almost opens up your tongue.
You really can taste after that.
So it's funny that pairing things up that one night
I may have smoked this particular Jupiter's Cop
nine, 10 times in a row, but that particular night,
Shannon made me an egg sandwich
and I ate that egg sandwich right before
I smoked that Jupiter's Cop.
And it will pull a taste out that I'm able to identify
that wasn't before.
And I don't believe it's manipulated
because of per se the egg sandwich.
I just believe pairing it up, I'm able to taste it.
If that makes any sense.
Of course.
No, because it's such a complicated process to pull flavor
and because everything's chemically still active
when it's in that solution, it's changing.
So your enzymes in your mouth have been changed
because we used to do the Golden Tarp.
We had that same company, the It's Alive Kombucha.
We used to have them come in
and they would have a kombucha bar at my events.
And so we would have them where the judges were too,
where they had access.
And it's just, when it does, it lets you consume
something that is effervescent.
So it's kind of zesty, but it also seems
to keep your mouth clean and open it up
in a really nice way.
And it doesn't clog it with the flavors
that other types of like sugary drinks will.
Something about the alcohol seems to clean the sugar
off the mouth as you drink it.
And it does, it makes herb have a clearer flavor.
But the bottom line is that's what makes selection on grass
where you have to kind of figure out,
what is people's desire in a thing?
So if you are around enough people
and you're able to interact with them,
you can figure out of all these things that they smoked,
which one did they like?
And then when you consume it, you try to understand
why they liked it more than the other ones.
It's a comparison contrast.
And a lot of times you find that the stuff
that you would have chosen is a little bit sharper
or a little bit more developed
than it isn't what the masses want.
So there's different levels of selection
based off of the different markets you're trying to go for.
And for you, you've got to develop palate
where you're saying, hey, I can eat an egg sandwich.
And I noticed that whatever the egg did to my mouth
and changed my digestive enzymatic action in my mouth,
it changed the way I picked up flavors in weed.
But most people aren't cognizant of those peculiarities.
And they just needed to serve a purpose and do a thing.
And that's what's tough about choosing stuff for,
just something that might win an Emerald Cup
might not necessarily be the most popular
to a different market.
And like if I was the Golden Tarp,
just because it won today,
the judges on a different day
could have chosen a different winner
because they were all really good.
But what was their setting
and what was the activity going on
in their mouth and the nose,
just like with the COVID shit.
If you are suffering any kind of respiratory problem,
it most definitely affects how you perceive
what you're breathing in
and what you're smelling and tasting.
Absolutely.
I mean, any respiratory infection, anything like that,
I think that's one of the first symptoms
they even noticed from COVID was lack of smell.
What's up, man?
Hey, what's up, Kona?
What's up?
Hey, how's it going, guys?
How's it going?
I'm surprised you're not standing in the trail
doing kettlebells and shit
and running up hills and stuff.
I'm not doing these things.
Good to see y'all.
But I don't even know what we're talking about.
I got excited because I saw your son.
Well, I was gonna say, I don't, go ahead.
I was gonna say COVID and losing the sense of smell.
Yes.
Well, I was gonna, I remember Kevin talking about
when he was doing testing,
trying to isolate the experience,
which I thought it was pretty good idea,
like the same type of day, as best you can,
because we all gotta smoke grass.
It's not like I can just say, hey, I'm not gonna,
I'm gonna just, once a day, I'm gonna smoke.
For me, I smoke all day.
So when you were telling that story,
I'm like, well, I can't do that, Kev.
I can't isolate that well.
Maybe I could have, try to compare my first joint every day
or my second, but I'm hitting lots of these
two to three gram joints a day,
not like three or four, like in the teens.
And that's the way it is, but that's, it's my weakness,
but it's also my strength.
And so kind of when things pull through,
and then when Nick and I met up in Denver,
because it comes out of sickness and pain.
A lot of people don't know, but I got hit by a car
and my back is super fucked up.
And that's how this whole thing really got going for me.
And so I'm in constant pain and have a hard time,
very fucking hard time sleeping.
And so I ended up sheathing a lot of weed
to deal with that stuff and keep going throughout the day.
And same with Nick.
You're the only dude in the world that can smoke with me.
Yeah, and I said the same thing.
I was like, fuck, man.
And so we started talking about how that affects
our experience and how we get high or don't get high
and how the flavor that, when something comes through,
it really comes through.
And, but it's a, go ahead.
Well, I was gonna say, so talk about,
can you taste all the nuances of the fifth joint of the day
as well as the first?
No, absolutely.
Well.
No.
No.
No.
No.
You can't.
Because I remember Kevin saying you should smoke.
Go ahead.
Well, no, no.
The way that, what I think is,
is that you can evaluate 365 new varieties a year correctly.
Because that means that the first joint you burn every day
is the one that is your cleanest.
Your system is clear.
And you're usually in control of the setting in the morning
because it's when you wake up,
you have like this moment of time that you can standardize.
And that little moment of time lets you burn the joint.
And then you feel that effect
and you feel the impact of it.
And that's the evaluation to me so that I'm not comparing.
If I'm doing like bulk testing, it's different.
But if I'm really wanting to see
what is this herb like by itself,
the first joint of the day is the one for me
that lets me determine that.
And then I can sit there for a second
and I can also figure out
when I wanna smoke the next joint.
And that lets me understand the longevity of the high.
What's the duration of it?
Because there's certain receptors in cannabis
that hold the high.
And so there's the intensity of the high,
how high we get, the direction of the high,
but also how long that thing holds.
And that first joint lets me figure that out
because I'll know, do I wanna light another one right up
or am I still really digging the field?
That's something that I'm looking for a lot of it too
is that I wanna be able to have a longevity of the effect
so that when people consume it, you can burn more,
but you're able to happily be chilling on it for a while
without having to go re-burn.
You don't have that crash.
So it's not this up and down.
Because I'm somebody that I might burn, I don't know.
I mean, I'm probably in the eight to 10 joints a day,
but I was probably in like 20 joint a day most of my life.
And I don't have any respiratory problems,
but I was easily burning 20 joints thick.
And that gave me a good balance of high
all throughout the day.
It let me maintain a good strong level.
But I know that as like a selector
or someone who releases varieties into the market,
one of the things that you have to look at
is the fact that people who buy pot
don't have the ability to buy as much as they really want.
And so trying to put things in that they give them
not just a quick lift, but also a long hold.
I can do that determination early.
I can always determine relative power
because if it cuts through the high of whatever I smoked,
then I know that shit's real.
So let's-
That's what I was gonna say
is when you're in the middle of the day,
when you're like, whoa, what just happened?
That's a real deal.
That's when you find power.
Yeah.
Power, longevity comes from the morning high.
And that's when I came across the dog walker
was like, you know, I'm smoking a ton of Gorilla Glue
and I hit the dog walker and I'm like,
whoa, man, whoa.
You know, I'm gonna need to take a nap right now.
You know?
Truth.
No, because you'll,
we would be testing at the Emerald, right?
And so me and Pearl,
we would go through like 50 varieties
because you would take two or three pulls off each one
and you knew right away, if it wasn't Stella, it's gone.
And if you hit the right one,
it wiped out three hours of smoking in one pull.
It just cut it right out and you were on a neutral
and the next pull, you were going another direction.
You smoked yourself out of it.
And then, yeah, we would pull yourself out.
So we would circle those up
and then we would go back to them
and then head to head those with the ones
that we were making the selection.
So we always did like this multi-stage selection
of if it didn't hit the mouth like money, it was gone.
Like I was picky.
If it wasn't high level,
it wasn't even getting in the conversation.
And we consumed everything.
Unless it had visible issues, we consumed it.
And I kept extensive logs and we had done this,
look at our selection for years
in the way we had done prior to.
But it lets you be able to say,
hey, which one of these really stands the fuck out and why?
And a lot of times I try to get people
that don't have weed experience like deep,
but they like to smoke.
And I'll ask them, I'm gonna let you smoke this.
Could you give me your opinion and what do you taste?
And that's when they start pulling out
all these descriptions that aren't in my vocabulary
because they're using different words to describe it.
And it lets you start to see the complexity
of a flavor profile, not just from your perspective,
but from others' perspective, the consumer perspective.
And then you start to really be able to step back.
And now when you've smoking it,
you can kind of look for their understanding
and you start to see it and feel it.
And so it's sometimes, man,
the herb is so deep in its complexity
that you have to guide yourself into it
and then have other people help identify what is there
so you can look for it while you're in the smoke.
And that's what's so fascinating about this.
That's really cool, man, yeah.
I just, you reminded me of me showing my mom the garden.
My mom's not a smoker, you know,
but she's definitely, she's a good cook.
She taught me how to cook and she's an artist
and she's a wine taster.
So same thing, when she comes in, it's really, really fun.
She's just like, oh, wow, I had no idea.
Like, this is delicious.
You know, this isn't, you know,
this burnt nasty thing that people smell on that,
you know, when they just smell in the smoke, you know.
It's like, right. Totally.
For people that don't consume herb,
the way that you,
I'm telling you, it's the-
It's the weekly cameo.
Yeah, yeah, I'm just saying.
It's the steam distillation of turps
that I think has to be brought into more widespread usage
because if you want people who don't consume cannabis
to experience cannabis other than just the smell,
they can taste that profile in the mouth.
We did that at a competition.
We had the lady pull the turps from the entries
and then we just put them in spring water.
And then you could then taste the variety in that way.
And it was so unbelievably clear on the enjoyment of it.
Like, you couldn't, like, you look forward to the day
when people were pulling turps from varieties
and putting them into infused drinks
because every infused drink tastes like shit to me.
I was just going there, man.
Have you had Shango's tinctures that he makes?
Oh, Shango makes some good tinctures.
Dude, he came up to the Regen Conference
and gave me like a five-way cheese tincture.
Yeah, Shango had Shango tincture.
Yeah, no, no, Shango-
And I started adding it to my beers, dude.
It's too good of a drug dealer.
You know, Shango's an interesting guy, man.
I really enjoy being involved in cannabis
in the way we've been
because it's allowed us to meet people
all over the industry.
And it lets you see all these people approach cannabis
from their direction on how they want to do it.
And it always makes me feel so primitive
because I'm still, you know, basically flour.
And I don't make all the concoctions,
but I sure as fuck dig getting them
when I do receive them from people as gifts
because they're just incredible.
You feel so good.
And, you know, it's, you know,
he makes some beautiful stuff.
Yeah, I was adding them too.
And look at this.
It says a cannabis tincture of cheeses and tangies
from Vashon Island.
Like even the way he wrote that is just,
he should be writing-
So what that is, and the reason I went off on it,
what that is is it's five different cheese varietals
and they're tangy in there.
And the flavor comes across
just like you were talking about the distilled turps
infused into water.
And he told me the same thing,
mix it down with some water.
So I did that at the conference
when I was talking with folks.
And then I flew back to Colorado
and I started putting in the beers.
And then I started getting the different IPAs
because I'm an IPA guy.
So I had like three or four IPAs and I was dropping
and I called Shango up, I think.
You know, it's such a fun way to experience,
you know, because I'm not even getting high at that point.
I'm not saying what I'm doing.
I'm just enjoying the fucking flavors.
And it's so fun, man, you know?
Because they're so developed because they're concentrates.
Yeah.
You're catching a really strong, colorful dose
and you can adjust them.
See, I haven't had a lot of infused beer
where I haven't put the two together in that form.
I'm either drinking beer and smoking weed,
but I'm not usually mixing the two in a concoction.
But I wanted to try the right...
What did you, what was the, what matched up best?
I, you know, well, so like, I like a really bitter IPA
that has a little bit of fruit in it, you know,
just a little sting of it.
My favorite one is a Bale Breaker up here in Washington.
And it's right in Yakima Valley
where all the hops are grown and they just nail it,
you know, every time.
That's a sharp IPA with...
Yeah, or I go to the Melbourne,
which is a little bit more bitter, you know,
and it's a little bit stronger, a little more alcohol.
And then on the go to the fruitier side
and get a tropical haze that's a lot brighter
and pineapple-y, you know,
and sometimes I'll just be mixing the three together,
you know, but with this stuff,
I like the bitter going really bitter
because it was adding the cheese
and the tangy cuts through so bright.
So I wanted the real bitter beer.
And I got you because it was really fun.
Yeah.
With the fruit, you would have blended them out
and you would have lost them a little bit.
Yeah.
It stood out more against the bitter as a bookend.
Yeah, and there's so much there.
I mean, there's guys that are doing this
in the brewing process or in the, you know,
adding the turps to the beer before it comes to you.
But I like that fun, you know,
aspect of doing it yourself a little bit, you know.
Totally.
Just quickly with Shango's tinctures,
are they what, like solventless extraction?
No, so this is a pure grain alcohol.
And that's something I was gonna bring up a moment ago.
I extract, I take two to seven grams of RSO a day.
I deal with multiple medical issues.
I'm actually about to deaccess the needle
in my chest the next two minutes
due to getting bit by a tick.
So the level of RSOs, I extract everything
with grain alcohol.
I've had a lot of experience with bourbon is,
I mean, that's what bourbon is
before it goes into the barrels.
One of the greatest things about this tincture
this goes back into the palate stuff.
The cheese actually, grain alcohol is strong.
It will burn the palate.
It will burn the taste buds.
It will actually take the enzymes off the tongue,
the white coating.
So you can still get the cheese off this
with that level of grain alcohol.
And that's impressive.
That's going back into the joints
that still taste like joints.
That's a skill set to make that level of tincture.
I remember watching one of the videos,
I may, it might've been a golden tarp awards, Kevin,
or something to that level about them blending different,
blending different rosins and different waxes
and things to make different turf profiles.
And I've ended up with weed on the tray,
like rolling, like from today even I had rural cush,
pure cush and a Bicket OG on my tray in a blend.
And I rolled that shit up and it was the,
it wasn't the strawberry roll, it was the chemical roll.
And that pure has a gas lemon rose.
I don't fucking know.
It was my first time running.
So I still need to dial it in a tad,
but the blend of those three.
Now the last joint, next time I roll a joint,
I'm actually gonna freshly blend those three to see.
That shit lets me pull out the weird flavors
of the individual strains,
because I roll everything in old school Kentucky
fucking papers, JLB 1.5s.
I'm like, I've been smoking that since 1993 when I was 13.
That's just how I do it.
Some people do it in Vong, some people do it in Glass Bangers,
some people do it in Blunts.
If you taste that shit out of any of the four substances,
which I don't like the other three substances,
but I'll still smoke out of those
just because I want to see how it changes.
Because half my market smokes things out of Blunts still,
which blows my mind.
But I mean, that's for them.
So blending different things,
you were talking about the pre-rolls earlier,
and that they didn't hold their taste.
If all the pinas that I tested,
they were really like back and forth on the CBD THC profile
and they were low, still got me high, but they were low.
That's not what the market would accept for a number.
But if you put 20% of that pina into 80% of Kim Dogg
or what have you on a pre-roll,
that shit's gonna hold its flavor for a long time.
And I was thinking about that when you were talking about
the different flavors and things.
And the pre-rolls kind of getting grinded,
getting broke down, they dissipate quickly.
And it even damages the heads and everything.
Even your THC will go down
and all your cannabinoids will go down.
But blending those together,
there is a lot of medical benefits.
Like I'm running a RSO right now
that is a mix between Roll Kush, Pure Kush.
Actually, it's just those two.
Then I run Pure Kush.
We just start, you just decarbed and did the Pure Kush.
So I'm starting to run that.
I will start that next week
to see I have a lot of hope in that one.
But I'm already going into the blend
because I trimmed them in the same trim bin the same day.
And I had tons of sugar leaf and little buds.
So we decarbed and ran it that way.
That's what she just handed me.
The strains blending together,
just like the CBD one ones or two ones or what have you,
it pulls out medical benefits
and things that you will experience in different ways
that you won't by itself.
Putting them together, they work harmoniously
like all the Ringo stuff back in the one one CBD shit
that's two different profiles
that hit a medical nature that help.
So blending that stuff together
goes so much more than just taste and enjoyment.
There is medical benefit there as well.
Those terpene carriers, there are medical benefits.
I may be rambling at this point.
I was gonna actually say this one interesting really thing
that you talked to me about at one point
was this guy eats so much RSO.
I've never seen a person eat this much RSO.
And I watched him do it in humble,
just like a whole tube.
Give me another one.
Wait, give me another one.
All of a sudden there's five grams of RSO
in this guy's system.
And he's ready to go learn at a science conference.
But because he eats so much of it,
and it's such a concentrate,
I'm leading you to talk about the effects
that you feel off of them.
He starts talking like this one makes me this,
this one makes me that.
It's really fascinating because we don't get those
as quickly smoking the flower, consuming it other ways.
Who can consume a gram of Royal Kush to figure out
that that's the one that's killing the parasites
inside his body versus when he takes a gram
of a cheese strainer or whatever else.
This is brutal, man.
Now, this is great.
I mean, it's the one benefit of my disease.
I can stay so hydrated now with this thing.
I was just running fluids, not meds, anything else,
just fluids.
It's the big benefit of,
the only benefit really of this situation.
I'm able to quickly hydrate it anytime I want.
To be able to stay awake like where I'm at,
it's like, I don't know, like 11 o'clock or something.
So I was getting drowsy and I wanted to stay mentally clear.
So running fluids to be able to do that
and keep me hydrated and then get my muscles,
puts fluids back in my muscles.
I deal with these muscle spasms that are stupid.
Actually, as we're talking, I'm getting goose bumps
and I'm running up, that's a micro seizure I'm having.
If I keep talking mentally about like fluid,
it won't affect me.
So it's just learning the things.
And I went to extremes here.
I mean, I did this shit not to die.
So finding medical, finding Roel Kusch all started
or the strains that helped me all started
because of Kevin Jodry videos and Shango Lowe's videos.
And then guys talking about powdery mildew resistance
and powdery mildew resistant strains helping out.
If a plant that can be powdery mildew resistant
next to a plant with powdery mildew leaning on it,
then that plant is fighting viruses and parasites
and things of that nature.
Extracting those and running those
have great medical benefit.
And it has given me my life back,
but now I'm looking for even more so
than just killing the parasites and all that.
I'm looking for the strains that wake me up in the morning.
Encapulators, Mac-1 is one of them.
It doesn't draw me down on the high and extracted.
It actually brings me up and helps me start my day.
GMO, Bicodil G, these different things do that.
I like to get, I've got some Congolese seeds from Mingine.
I would like to crack them straight in the flower room
and then just run the RSO to see if it,
with my issues, just wakes me to fuck up.
And I think any breeder out there,
and this is just my opinion,
but I'm somebody extremely sick
and I have went through a lot of strains.
For you to truly know your strain,
extract that fucker into RSO
and take that for a couple of days.
You will find whether or not you get hunger from it,
whether or not you go to sleep,
whether or not you wake up,
whether or not you are couch locked,
whether or not you're mentally adaptive to learn
the triggers on the artistic ability.
So I'm just gonna pick out a random breeder here.
Fucking Moscow, for instance, they got bubble gum.
I mean, it's just a consistent strain that they've had.
If Moscow ran that bubble gum in the RSO
and they really, and not just them,
but seven or eight different people tried that RSO
and you're like, hey, this is the true description
of medical benefits this might bring,
or it could even recreational benefits
on an extraction method
with somebody that smokes all the time.
Us three, taking RSO may be the only way
we really get like, oh, you know,
I could feel some real heavy duty things from that strain.
So I think it's a tool for breeders to use,
to extract not just in wax and rosin
and different things of that nature,
but to RSO and to ingest that orally
and to see how it does.
If you can't handle edibles,
give it to somebody else or ship it to me, man.
I take a lot of that shit.
I can send you an accurate description in a couple hours
because RSO is lifeblood for keeping me going.
So sometimes the RSO though actually mentally affects me
to where I don't get as high from smoking flour.
I'm like, all right, I'm gonna slow down the RSO.
As soon as I do, I have massive health issues.
Most people watching this didn't see me
when I was at my worst that Kevin and Josh have.
I look completely different than when I was at
the depths of this, fighting this stuff.
Sometimes I wanna be selfish and like back off the damn RSO
and so you can enjoy cannabis a little bit more.
I can hear Kelly from Dragonfly Earth Medicine
screaming at me every time I attempt to do something
like that, it sets me back.
I'm kind of rambling here at this nature
on bouncing between medical and RSO,
but it allows you extracting things in RSO form
to see more out of the plant.
You can also, the way RSO is made like with pure grain,
it is a brutal process on the cannabinoids.
If you still get terpenes out of the strain,
I'm gonna go back to the pina from Indian again.
RSO, pina, RSO still smells like pina.
It's the only strain that's ever done.
GMO pulls a little.
GMO RSO come out like a red shade.
It is your black lime reserve,
testa rosa that I just harvested
that has that pink lavender weird ass color to it
that it kind of looks like tropicana cookies.
I'm curious to extract it in RSO
to see if it pulls that way.
Cause usually you got the black tar straight color.
It's the forbidden fruit.
You can see the variance there.
Do what now?
It's the forbidden fruit back in there
that makes the tropicana that color
and that makes the skittles kind of give,
and it's coming out.
Man, that Fino is pretty, pretty.
And it just, and I mean, bag and pills and everything,
but to the general public, I mean, it's still something.
And that thing right there is a looker.
I've even seen, I got a buddy heading many farms.
He actually got the, one of the things from you, Kevin,
in an auction up here in Michigan.
This dude makes extracts through land of stank up here.
And they're just crazy.
And the way I explain flour,
heading many farms explains it back to me
in like rosin and wax,
cause they don't really smoke flour.
It's all about rosin and wax.
Totally, totally.
And it's, he's probably my best little buddy up here
in Michigan, him and his wife.
And they have two different palette approaches.
So to bounce ideas off those three,
like that is where it's really at.
Even picking bourbon.
It was, we write our things down
and I didn't want to say to Kevin,
hey, do you taste the lemon?
Do you taste the lemon?
Do you taste the lemon?
Cause then Kevin's going to be like,
fuck, I taste the lemon.
Even if lemon ain't there.
You can pseudo manipulate somebody there.
So write your shit down, hand me your notebook.
I'm gonna hand you mine.
And then we're like, oh yeah, I got this.
And then I'm going back to it
in case they're like, oh yeah,
I do taste the apples in this bourbon or what have you.
But to bounce those fucking ideas off people,
that's golden.
Cause they will help develop you a little bit more
on those things.
Or pull something out of it to a nature
that you haven't had before.
When I was with you, Josh,
I'd never seen somebody,
I didn't grow up a lot of hippies.
It was a lot more thug people.
I'd never seen people like just pull over,
go to a grocery store,
pull out avocados and radishes and that.
Like that's my dinner.
And for the five days I was hanging out with you,
eating that way, so clean,
I mean so clean,
opened up my palate even more.
Like eating that clean and even I felt healthier.
So going back into pairing things up,
like doing bourbon,
we would cleanse the palate between those
with unsalted soup crackers or with,
shit my brain just went blank.
What's that herb Shannon?
That saltless herb that we're always doing
bourbon tasting that we're,
no she has not.
But you want to clear that palate.
Unsalted crackers,
things of that nature,
higher seltzer water will help do that.
And you can get those tastes bouncing back and forth
between things.
Because when you're sitting in a session
with us three,
I'm ordering up bounce through things quickly.
Coffee's good for the nose.
Yeah.
Coffee's good for the nose as a reset.
You can sniff like some coffee beans.
Yeah, coffee beans are very good for the nose.
Ginger, that's what I was trying to think of a minute ago.
I said the herb.
Ginger really helps clear the palate.
But just a typical thing for anybody
when we were picking bourbon,
you can pick up any jar of weed
that you've got at your house,
smell it with your mouth closed,
take your head away,
come back, smell it with your mouth completely open.
Smelling it with your mouth open
will open up the flavor profile on that
to a different level than just smelling it
with your mouth closed.
This is how we did all bourbon.
When I was picking stuff with new guys in my bourbon grub,
they're like, open your mouth.
You know, when they're sniffing different bourbon bottles,
because it's the nose and mouth
that you're pulling olfactory through,
not just the nose.
So it's that whole experience to really get it
and playing around with those different things
and even trying different things like ginger,
coffee, soup crackers to cleanse that palate
between even hits for that matter.
Shango sent me something where he was like testing
or doing a judging some cannabis thing
where he had to do like a hundred strains
in a very short time.
Cleansing that palate in between that
is the only way to really figure out what your taste
or it just starts blending on the tongue.
It sticks there like grease on outdoor cannabis.
You know, at the end of the year, it's just so greasy.
So bouncing those even ideas like,
hey Kevin, what do you do to get through a session like that?
Hey Josh, what do you do?
Because you can put those different plays
into your own program
that you may have never even thought of.
And it really does help.
Even muting the smell, like closing your mouth
and sniffing the jar will mute the smell of cannabis
compared to opening it up.
But you'll still catch nuances in that way
that you didn't catch previously, if that makes any sense.
Yeah, you gotta get the thing too,
is you gotta standardize the temperature
you're sniffing at.
Yes.
Like we were talking earlier, if it's cold
and that shit is, it's misleading too
because if it's extremely volatile when it's cold,
it means that if that stuff ever really warms up,
you're gonna flash all that shit off.
The bonds are so light
that they're barely connected to that plant.
And the minute temperature gets added at all, it flares it.
And so stuff like that, that's screaming loud cold
is supernatural when it's warm,
but it has a short shelf life.
You gotta be able to figure out how to protect varieties
like that for the consumer.
So stuff that we grow for ourselves
and you can seal it right away and make sure it's preserved.
But if it's gonna be moved out of your world,
it's a tough one.
So I like to have everything the same temp
when you're doing the work.
When you get in the jars, the smell on the table,
the ones that are in the storage are cool.
And when you put them on the table, then they warm up.
And so if you compare one that's cool to one that's warm,
the one that's warm is gonna smell much better
than the one that's cool.
So you're really not comparing apples to apples.
It's like you have to get everything stabilized.
So everything that you're playing with,
you have to make sure the moisture contents
are pretty consistent in the flowers.
Like to me, if you're really trying to make an assessment,
you gotta get rid of the variables.
You gotta standardize as much of it as possible
to make the assessment.
So you can search through a bunch of varieties.
Like you're burning 25, 30 joints a day, Josh.
You know that when you roll them,
as long as they were all the same dry,
same basic moisture level so that they burn consistently
because a moisture will not ignite hard enough
and leave a flavor correct.
It'll be under combusted.
And then herb that's too dry, burns too hot,
and you flare off the turps too quickly.
So the right moisture content to where,
and you know it through feel,
that you're like, all right, this is right.
Once these things in front of you are in that same grating,
now you can all go through all those quickly
because the one that stands out is gonna stand out.
And the ones that don't, don't.
You just dump them.
But so much of it is trying to always,
like I said, I always use the morning.
So I know that if I want to really evaluate good grass,
I know that I just have to wake up.
And I used to do it on the way to work
because I drive this av of the giant.
So I go through the redwoods and I would leave my house
and I'd light up the joint.
And I would drive for like 13 minutes through the redwoods
to get out onto the highway.
And in that 13 minutes, I could burn a joint.
And as soon as I hit the highway,
I put the roach out in the ashtray.
And then I'd have like an hour of travel
before I got to where my destination was.
And that let me have four true test days a week
where I could get everything.
I could get myself set.
I would burn.
And then I would be able to know
what did this thing do in that controlled setting.
And then when we started doing,
and that let me get an hour feel.
Did I come down?
As soon as I got out of the car, did I want to smoke again?
Was I still really happy about how I felt?
And then it lets you catalog them.
And a lot of this shit is when you're doing an assessment,
you got to write it all down.
And it gets crazy because a lot of times
you start getting confused as to what you're looking through
because you're having so much of this cannabis
coming at you at once that your mouth gets jammed up
and your brain gets a little jammed up.
And what ends up happening is you can't grade them,
but you can pick the winner.
So you can always pick the best shit,
but you don't have the ability in a bulk
to individually stack them.
You do that over time where you can kind of compare clusters
and say of this cluster of five, this lays out.
But I found it hard to make this long strip
of classification versus just what was the best,
what stood out.
And it's really always clear, man,
outliers just stand out.
That there's always something that's good
and then there's something that's great.
And sometimes there's nothing there at all.
I think that that as like from a breeding point of view,
that's why I think the breeders have testers
in a way that's not just to check the gear,
but it's also to have an unemotional connection
to this, the selection process.
Because otherwise you as the breeder
wanted to see something come out.
Sometimes I think you wish it was there more than it is.
And you have to accept that fact.
And so for selection, sometimes you just know
you got to bring in someone to help you
look through something to see where do you want to position
it market-wise.
And for some breeders, they have to let go of the project
so they can let people look to see what should be the cut
that represents the line in the public
through like nursery sales.
That's what I had to do with my dogs.
I actually would get emotionally attached to puppies
out of a high level breeding,
a particular blue collar puppy.
There's nine puppies in the litter.
I went with the German system.
So every litter was the A litter on down.
So when I was at the F litter,
every dog in the litter was named like Farrah or Frank
or Farrow Von Reisenhaus.
I may get attached emotionally to a puppy.
It's cute.
It comes up to me.
It licks my feet, sitting at the couch,
but that's not the dog that I need to select
for my breeding program to move my breeding program forward
and to compete with into Schutzen.
I've done got myself fucking emotionally involved.
I have to call in other trainers.
And sometimes that was trainers from seven, eight,
nine hours away come down here
to help me select the puppy I want.
And then the craziest shit is they come down
and they help you select the puppy.
And then you want to argue with them.
Not, no, no, you want to get this one.
I'm emotionally attached to this one.
Damn it, let's get the one.
But you have to accept their outlook,
especially if there's three of them there that day.
And they're all saying, no, not the green collar, Nick.
The yellow collar is going to advance your breeding program.
So bringing in that outside thing is important.
You know, I've got two loves dog wise,
Pit Bulls and German Shepherds.
That's a little bit of a doberman.
So they were the first dogs I really got started with.
But they're also different in their approaches.
The way I would select a German Shepherd for myself
as to the way I would select an American Bulldog
or an American Pit Bull Terrier are completely different.
Having somebody come outside
and give you that advice is important.
And with breeding, I'm able to bounce things
off Josh Rutherford constantly.
And with Kevin, certain people, Shango,
that you can say like, hey,
even if you just, even if you just vent your problems,
like I talked to Kevin the other day,
like I got this beautiful plant
that smells like nothing, like nothing.
Not like hay, like nothing.
It was the greatest strain ever to grow in 1995 indoors.
Cause your ass would not have gotten caught.
But for today, it's not what you want.
But to boy, is that really-
Did it smoke well?
It's actually curing right now.
And I'm hoping that maybe the room actually muted it,
which I've seen before.
Mean Jeans, Jupiter's Cock,
if you grow that strain in a room with anything else,
or a Seattle Chronic Seeds, Grob,
they will control the room.
They will control the room in terpenes.
You cannot smell other plants that are in there.
So I'm hoping that once it hits the jar,
if after four weeks,
that I see something completely different
or perhaps, you know, as I was trimming today,
I got fruit, I got a tad bit of earth.
There was a different than no smell,
but a little bit of earth and soil and things like that.
So four weeks in a jar,
we're gonna see something completely different.
Which is hard for some people
to ever get a true interpretation of a strain
because it's grown, it's processed, it's dried,
it's grown in fucking Mylar and shipped to processing
where it's gonna sit for two months
until it hits the...
And you don't truly get the experience of it
when it hits glass, it sits in dark,
it comes out and it's been babied and made right.
Those bourbon barrels are correct
because they've sat there unfucked with for seven to 20 years
you know, not being cracked open, not being checked,
not being, you know, constantly handled.
I call it finger fucked.
I mean, you're literally touching it that many times
and opening it up and everything
to where it doesn't get to have the right smells
that the strain even is.
I've noticed that just because Kevin,
or I wouldn't say Kevin, some other dude heads me,
I smoked some headband with him.
I can't really judge headband off that experience.
I've got to deal with it myself
to make sure it's done properly
with the environment and moisture levels.
Because the joints, he was talking about,
like I'd almost rather a joint be too dry than too wet
because they just burn slow, they burn soft as fuck.
It mutes the all flavor
into this hay Kentucky farm smell every time.
So for somebody to actually get it where it's supposed to be
I can't base a strain off that
unless it was the correct way.
If that makes any sense.
Yeah, well, I was just gonna, you know,
kind of one thing in standard advising
that I have got going for me
that I've learned about is my beds
rather than growing in pots.
I used to grow in pots.
And I have these beds that I treat pretty much uniformly.
And at this point, I don't have to add too much.
It's been four years I've been adding stuff to them
and building them up.
And they're a beast of their own.
Are these wood beds that you made
or like grassroots raised beds or?
No, I don't know.
They're just wooden beds on my natural soil here.
It's highly developed to be honest.
It has radiant heating,
it's insulation around the greenhouse
and then the 12 inch top soil that I made based on,
you know, my recipes.
Can you bring the laptop or phone out to show us
or is it too far away?
It's too far away and raining.
Oh, it's raining.
Yeah, but I guess what I was trying to say
is that the beds are uniform and they're standardized.
And I can put, at this point,
I can put anything in those beds sick as fuck
and they're gonna get healthy
and they're gonna, everyone that walks in there is like,
man, these leaves are the biggest I've ever seen.
And so I see a really robust, big, jungly,
lively version of all these plants, but it's all uniform.
And they're all getting the same water.
I don't water them.
They're automatic water with the Blue Mat system.
And the root zone is,
so it eliminates me in the plant growth.
And so I can see the genetics
and I can see the genetics performing really, really well
versus like, I don't know, personally,
I just struggled in pots.
Growing organically in pots
is something I don't recommend anybody do
unless you need to, you know,
then again, I say that, you know,
Bam makes a really good argument for it
because you can move males and stuff, you know,
and it is a pain in the ass.
I have to pull them and it takes me longer,
you know, I have to re-bed shit and, you know.
I'm growing a lot of pots and not as many beds,
but I do outdoors.
Do you find that growing separate strains together
in the same bed,
that that seems to influence each other?
I wanted to bring this up to you
in private conversation earlier,
like roots connecting and all that stuff.
This is some hippie shit that I never used to believe in,
but I'm seeing weird shit.
It has to, it has to.
To even think it doesn't would be insane, you know,
because if one plant is calling for this nutrient
and it's telling the myocryzae, pull this nutrient.
And so then the myocryzae goes out and pulls it,
but then the plant B, strain, whatever B,
maybe didn't need that nutrient until two weeks later,
two days later, and then it's already there
because the other plant.
So maybe that B plant that was behind
might end up doing a little bit better
because the other plant, you know what I mean?
Like, you know how bikers draft off each other?
Yeah. Correct.
It's like they're drafting off each other.
Like, thanks for the help, man.
That's a good analogy right there.
Microbial drafting.
That's the new podcast.
Thanks, brother.
Thanks for helping me out.
But that's an elevated forest though,
that you're having a fungally dominant,
completely interconnected system.
That's like the evolution of ag,
where you go from weeds all the way to trees.
And then the quality of the soil
flexed in its domination of the right balances.
But no, I was gonna laugh, Josh,
though I wanted to bust your balls and say,
the reason why those fucking leaves are so big
is because you're in gray ass Washington
and they have to make a fucking weed
to catch the fucking light.
And then you said,
there's a baby outside too.
And I'm like,
and he's doing pathogen testing in fucking June.
Washington.
Dude, and that's actually, you know,
one thing that it's a good thing to bring up is,
that is the total, I picked the worst place to grow
and probably the worst place in my area.
Like I literally, I'm five minute drive to the ocean,
five minute drive to I-5, five minute drive to Canada.
And we'll have snow in my neighborhood
and no snow anywhere else.
It's like no snow at the beach, no snow at the I-5.
What's that location?
Where I'm right at sea level.
Gotcha, gotcha.
Yeah, but I'm just in a little hole.
So it's a little sink, it kind of comes off the ocean,
maybe raises up a little bit.
And then same thing at I-5, it's a little higher
and I'm in this little sink.
And so we get on a little mini microclimate
and it's just all negative stuff for what I'm trying to do.
But it lets you get some really weird shit though.
Like the stuff that you've brought me always has
a way louder mono signature.
Like it's always exceptionally bright.
When I've grown stuff that you've selected and smoked
and I've grown it myself in my climate,
my version of it is good, but not as good
because it's missing out on that cool climate selection.
I think it's the climate and the-
You know what I mean?
Like the stuff that works for you works,
but I think that it buffers some of your profiles.
It means you have a unique appellation
that no one else can recreate.
Yes, he's got the swamp appellation.
It's true.
And well, it puts a lot of more trichomes on the plants,
obviously having more humidity in the air
and it makes a thinner plant.
But then when you find the stuff that works within it,
it's really hard to find.
And actually I've come to the point
where I'm not growing full term here anymore.
I mean, I still have stuff out,
but I'm not counting on it for money whatsoever.
I'm depping everything.
I just started depping this morning.
And so the next three weeks I'll start depping
to pull a good crop.
At 3.30 in the morning.
Yeah, dude, that's the other thing too.
Like it's the hottest part of the day here in Washington
at five.
And so for me to pull at five,
I get the plants just cranking.
Where when I wake up in the morning,
it's overcast and cloudy till 10, 11, 12,
two o'clock sometimes here.
And so I'm not really doing anything
until 12, two o'clock sometimes here.
And so it works out better for me to put the tarp on
at three at 4.30 in the morning.
I have to have them all on by 4.30.
And then I can take them off at 10
and they don't get as hot, you know.
Oh, totally.
No, no, that's smart.
You gotta manipulate your situation to work for you.
Because once you spike the temp,
you hammer a depp crop.
Like you gotta bring that overall heat spike down.
I don't think people,
I always tell people, I said,
man, you gotta go inside that fucking house
and then let them depp you in there
and hang out for 20 minutes.
And tell me what you experienced inside that fucking tube.
And it blows your mind.
It's a sweat lodge.
And then apologize to all your plants profusely.
Yeah, you never knew kinder about it.
I am so sorry how I treated you.
So, you know, it makes sense
because you can use your environment there correctly.
Like I use placement on my farm.
I can do full term and that's what I like to do
because it allows me to do more work with less people.
But the way my farm is laid out,
I have beds that are cooler than the other beds
due to the way the sun rotates around
and how much total time in the sun they get.
And so in the beds that have less sun,
I can use varieties that have less sun needs
and also ones that have a more uniform growth
and I can go with a thicker planting.
So, you know, you just adapt to the situation.
If it's not flat farmland,
you have to bend to the will of the place.
And when you make the right selection
and you do the work that fits the situation
and you're honest about it,
when you realize that really you're not in control of shit,
then it makes it easy.
You know, you can find some stuff,
but the stuff that's interesting
because I didn't really think about the amount of,
I knew you were up in Washington,
but I didn't know the specifics of your op
where I just figured that all of Washington
in that area was wet,
but you're getting a specific little pocket
where you're having a higher humidity hold,
lower temperatures, warmer night temp because it's buffered.
Yeah, and I didn't know either.
You know, I bought the property under distress in some ways,
you know, racing to get something.
I bought my license before I had the property
and so I was on the line for an expensive deal
and a baby come in.
So we were just trying to find something.
We found it and it was, bam, let's go.
And over the last four years,
I've really got my ass handed to me and learned a lot,
you know, and it feels like this is almost my first year
that I'm just, I told you this, both of you guys,
they're my first year that I've just gotten to grow weed
for like four years.
You know, everything's not perfect,
but I just get to grow and focus on that.
I'm having a blast, man.
Your place looks nice right now.
I planted the farm.
I just spent all week planting.
So I'm fully in, electric fences are up
to keep the neighbors' bulls out of my fucking garden.
And I already got to see a couple of bears,
saw a big full-size male
and then saw a little baby bear running down the road.
And I had a giant mega buck come up into the garden
and leap the electric fence.
And he was hanging out and I was watching him
and when he went to take off, man,
he blew over this thing like a missile.
And I was nice, man.
He was like, fuck your fence.
Oh yeah, he didn't care about my fence.
But I have to put the electric fences up
because the neighbor, the old neighbor,
he's got a huge track of land and he has cattle
and he's an older dude.
And last year his bulls got into my field
and started like, and they were cautious with cannabis.
It's funny, they don't damage it.
They'll step on it, trying to eat the grass
that's growing from your mulch.
So when you're doing healthy mulching,
you're bringing in fucking cattle if they can smell it.
So they eat the mulch, but they don't fuck with the weed,
but they'll step on it and you'll come out there
and you'll see all these bulls in your weed garden
and you're scared to death because they're bulls.
It's like they're in the middle of a minefield
and you're like, don't take one step to the left.
No, and it's all your part.
You're just scared to death because they're gonna,
you know they're gonna screw it up.
And they're actually really cautious.
So I go down and talk to the old man and I said,
hey, you know, your bulls are up in my yard
just wreaking havoc.
And he was like, it's every man for himself, Sonny.
You short-handed on the ranch.
And I was like, holy fuck, what an answer.
So I said to him, I said, don't take that one.
You're like, I gotta respect that answer.
I said, yeah, I said, so tell me, you're old rancher.
How do you keep these things?
Like, what would you do if you were me?
And he said, he said, I would put an electric fence
up around my weed.
And so he showed me how to set up an electric fence
in his yard.
And then I took off to the farm store and picked up the unit
and then I set up a grid.
So this year I put up a new one that encompasses
the big flat that I added extra this year
where I had the canopy in existence,
but this year I opened up and used it.
And I fenced it all in.
So it's good, it'll keep the bulls out.
They've already been up and got stung
so that now they know to stay away.
But the deer was just dancing around in the garden
and I was just, it was nice, man.
It was same thing.
I spent all these years doing all this work in cannabis
so that I could get back to growing cannabis
so that I could spend like a whole season
just doing this thing.
And a lot of the work that I did for years
was you would teach people to operate
and then you were trying to build the business.
And so I was always involved in cultivation
and always involved in selection
and always involved in business development,
but I wasn't involved in cannabis cultivation
in the way I once was for the 20 years prior.
And so for me right now, it's cool too,
because you're getting to see what works on the hill
and start to refine your process.
And now that you know that you're gonna be in a place
and you're not gonna hopefully not have the feds
come flying into your yard,
you can start to build true permanent culture
where you can start to really develop
the things that you wanted to do.
So it's a nice feeling, I understand.
Oh, Nick just got a dragonfly earth, sir.
He just got a, that's no easy trick, man.
That's close to the roots.
This is my first year on this farm and it's been brutal.
We bought this farm in a,
while I was actually at Humboldt Regenerative Conference.
Shannon finally, I've got another property.
I moved up here into Michigan from Kentucky,
but we're trying to set everything up new on this farm.
And it's quite a windy environment.
It has been difficult and I've made,
I do a lot of human culture stuff,
but I'm not the seasoned outdoor grower.
I have been growing outdoor cannabis since 1995,
when I was 15, but that was guerrilla style in Kentucky
because of illegality.
Kentucky still has no medical program or anything.
Anything that was growing outdoors
was very much guerrilla style.
It was never greenhouses and it was never full sun.
And I've struggled transitioning into full sun
and greenhouses, I've got greenhouse bones here.
I sent you all the stuff, Kevin,
and I never even set it up
because I had no fucking clue
what I'm doing on a greenhouse.
So it's been new to go full sun the last two years,
completely legal, like wide open,
building big cages around them
and not having them under,
I mean, we used to climb up trees
that take five gallon buckets.
I'd duct tape bungee strap and use a wire
to keep them up there.
Those are the ones that would not get stolen,
busted, cops, what have you.
But the ones on the ground, I mean,
you put out 10 different crops
and you're gonna lose seven of them.
Three will come in and you didn't really,
weren't able to go back and foliar feed
or anything of that nature.
It was just go back and top dress
before rains were coming and things.
So the huel culture was kind of something,
I didn't know it was a huel culture,
but I was just putting logs in little holes
just so that they would catch all the water
and then slow release that water back on the plants
because I couldn't get back out
in a real situation of water.
So learning how to do this farm in a full open,
nice, happy environment has been fucking difficult.
It is, I need the harsh,
throw that shit under a tree and everything
to let it rock and roll
because that's the way I've learned how to do it.
So I also stupidly grew up a bunch of plants,
10 foot tall and 10 foot wide to put out this year
and that was a disaster.
I will never do that again.
Plants bounce back from transplant shop a little wise,
way better than they do from those big plants
I try to put out.
So it has been a learning curve.
Josh has walked me off the ledge
about every other day for the last month,
but we're planted, everything is good now.
I've got 24 in this property,
outdoor full-term, 24 at the other property
through medical and the rec license.
Hopefully this year, I would like my goal,
between me and Josh breeding is probably my main focus.
I mean, I miss being able to breed the dogs
and as long as this needle's still in,
I'm not able to do it.
So breeding plants kind of replaces that on the selection,
but I'm gonna pay for the 500 plant grow up here.
And that comes in Michigan with a private dispensary
and a delivery service.
You can only sell your own product.
You can't bring in anybody else's,
but I can focus on the medical and do it that way.
But outdoor, the freaking outdoor has been a challenge.
On just 20 minutes away from my other Michigan property
I grew last year, the wind factor,
the strongest survive out here
as far as the wind factor goes.
And doing it full sun as opposed to doing it grill style
has been a lot different.
Cause I guess, you are doing it grill style.
You're in the woods, you're in a lot of shade.
You're not getting a lot of wind factor
and you're not getting a lot of sun burn.
We've had some crazy wild UV days up here in Michigan
where I've actually seen,
where we've got warnings on the weather app
about the UV light and I've seen some burning
and bleaching on plants outdoors.
That's something new for me to deal with.
How long have you been in Michigan?
Go ahead.
I moved to Michigan two years ago due to my health.
Okay, cause I was gonna ask you.
But I won't be on this property since February.
Cause it'd be interesting to talk to someone from Michigan.
Can you hear me?
It'd be interesting to talk to someone
who's been in Michigan for a while to talk.
Cause like, I think, I mean in Humboldt,
I'm sure it's the same where like from 10, 20 years ago,
the weather keeps changing.
It's not like predictable, consistent weather anymore,
anywhere.
Humboldt gave me more of a realization to that
than any place ever.
I went out there and you go from Kevin's one log dispensary
over to visit Jared at Lost Coast.
And you're talking about a 20 minute drive.
And I swear I went through 17 different climates
in that little bitty drive.
And with my particular tick stuff,
I can feel humidity and moisture so much more.
You go up a mountain there and feel dry down at the bottom
and you would feel the moisture and see the fog out there.
I never really understood it until I was out there to see
how micro climates can be just over the hill
because it's not that way in Kentucky as much.
So that was a good learning experience
just to drive up mountains and down mountains in Humboldt
to see how somebody at the bottom of the mountain
could possibly get a total different variation of a pheno
than somebody sitting up at the top of the mountain
growing the exact same clone
just because the climates are so different.
Well, and that's what's, one thing that's just been,
in a lot of Kev's content has been so great
because the experience you have seeing so many genetics
in the region that you're in,
it's just fascinating for us all.
As I've, Nick just gave me, sent me one of his dogs.
And so it's over the last couple of months,
it's been really fucking cool.
He's right here.
She's right here in the cage.
This is Quinn.
Can you see her?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
She's, I've just been learning all about the breeding
from him and it's really fascinating that the programs,
and the different levels,
and we don't have all that with cannabis.
We don't have a standardization.
We don't have German shepherds.
When we say-
That's your dog's mother barking right now.
I just knocked one out.
Shannon's getting up to go shut up.
That I imported from the Czech Republic three years ago.
Yeah, so explain that, explain how you came to Quinn
and Ruvver, because that can kind of help explain
what I'm trying to say.
Yeah, my dogs, my working line dogs, I got out of,
I went to prison in 2003 for own cannabis.
When I had protection dogs beforehand, for obvious reasons,
I was just due to the nature of what I did,
I had protection dogs.
So I got out and I went straight into, straight into dogs.
Old head at parole told me I was having problems
with getting a job and everything else.
He's like, man, you got to create your own business.
They can't fuck with you that way.
So I created a dog training business
just because I like dogs.
I had no idea what I was doing, anything else,
but parole officers would leave you alone.
And if you owned your own business,
if I made a hundred dollars a week
and I paid my $60 supervision fee,
they left me the fuck alone.
So lo and behold, two years later,
this lady, Karen, that I kind of mentored under,
pushed me to enter a dog in the AKC Bluegrass Classic
National Obedience AKC thing.
And I'd never competed a dog.
And I went in and I went all four days of it,
high in trial, it never happened before.
And I just fucked around with my dogs in the backyard
and just reading everything I could,
watching every video from Jeremy.
I did it with, Brooklyn was subpar genetics.
She was American show on.
So learning about the working line genetics,
essentially I was going, I was competing with bag seed.
I don't mean that route towards Brooklyn.
She was amazing and worn everything.
And I love the shit out of her,
but genetics wise, I couldn't trace her lineage anywhere.
It was just basic backyard German shepherds.
But when I was able to get German shepherds
from working lines, particularly a man named T Floyd,
who was the best American competitor that I found,
the brightest dogs all from Germany.
This gave me a different playing field.
I mean, like I had this young,
the background is there, the genetics are there.
Now I just mold it to what it's genetically capable to be.
And I competed in working groups.
I didn't like to compete as much as I like to help
other people do that stuff.
But Nick Del Lupo Nero, Chuck Von Dornberger Bach,
Chelsea Von Floyd House, Phoenix to Seal Rouge,
these three dogs, four dogs, four people in a Schutzen group
got first, second and third at the working dog championship.
Went to the world champions.
Only five dogs from each country go.
Nick went twice, Chuck went three times.
Chelsea, my female that's in the floor,
right in the other room, 12 years old,
Schutzen three, doing all that showed that they were not,
that you didn't just say you had something,
you went out and proved it.
So when you bred that, you knew what it was.
So Quinn, the dog I sent you,
Q Ruger is my male out of that litter I select.
He's the most intense male I've ever had.
The mother of that is Emmy Vicar.
She is a daughter of Scoot Von Favre Cross,
which was the Czech national champion,
the WUSB national champion five years ago.
That's the best in the world, the WUSB.
Emmy's mother, so that's your dog's grandmother.
She's three, four lime bred on Nick Von Hildenbosch.
Lime breeding on dogs puts the selection
as to where you want to be.
You'll get good, you'll get bad,
but selecting that process helps define
the working abilities through tracking, protection
and obedience, which the German Shepherd was designed for.
So your particular dog is high drive, very social,
very family oriented and very prey driven,
not prey in the sense of playing with a ball,
but prey in the sense of killing a bird or a predator
or an intruder climbing over your fence
to steal your cannabis.
So that's the reason that I sent that particular dog to you.
At the same time, she will love your wife,
love your child and yourself.
And that's difficult.
That's difficult for a dog to say,
you're gonna be the baddest motherfucker in the world.
Okay, you're gonna shut that off and love my family
and be able to adapt into that nature.
So that's another selection process.
Part of that was, right, was Emy was on the more
aggressive driven side and Glock had that,
but Glock also is very, he's a lover, he's very sociable.
Glock is very impressive in competition at protection work.
If I'm completely honest,
now I believe he will protect me in the right situation
or in this situation.
I just don't believe he has the oomph to him
that other, that the female does.
When I breed dogs, I do not take hard dog to hard dog.
I take smart, confident, stable, controlled dog
to hard, crazy driven dog.
And I keep doing that,
through the different litters selecting out.
I need them to even each other out.
If you take crazy to fucking crazy,
you end up a lot built.
That was my in litter.
I took Hydra, Glock's mother, who is very, very intense.
I took her to a dog out of a car kennels
that had been ported in through Germany
that was extremely, even handler aggressive.
And from that, I ended up buying half those dogs back
and having to sell them to police departments and things
because people could not handle them
and they were a lot built.
So even with the aggression,
power without control is nothing.
So that selection process is completely in line
with the same thing we're doing, breeding cannabis.
Looks without smell is nothing.
Looks and smell without any disease
or any mold or mildew resistance is nothing.
Looks without, yeah, I just culled a plant out of my garden
that produces some of the prettiest fucking flower
but I swear the plant won't give you
two ounces per plant in an indoor grow.
Just all small buds, it just didn't make the cut.
You have to make those hard selections.
Well, it seems like the two of you have another layer
where I think you both take the medical aspects
very seriously.
Like, it's not just for like recreational enjoyment.
You're like, no, we got one more level
that we have to factor in.
And that's like, and then each of you kind of knows
like this may not be for me
but I know who this would be good for.
Like, I feel like you're way above everybody else.
And like, this works for me, that works for me,
that doesn't work for me.
And then for other people too.
Well, you know what it does too for these guys
is both of them have real medical needs
but I did an interview today about the story
of Mack Anderson Mandelbrot.
And it was, his brother had come over
and so they shot a video at my house to talk about,
you know, who Mack was and what was his influence
in cannabis and he was the one
who put that Royal Kush together.
And we were talking about the legacy of that work.
And I said, you know, he's passed away
but down the road, an individual, you know,
finds out that it's got a high fungal resistance
and then takes a look at it and realize
that he can use it in a medical way
that none of us knew you could use cannabis
in that way really.
And so, you know, it's fascinating that
you're not just, you know, having the medical need
but you're actually highlighting stuff
that I don't think anybody else realized
because I think you're the first person I know
in all the medical years that went after a variety
specifically to control a specific ailment
utilizing terpenes as the combination.
And it helped you tremendously.
So it was fascinating because you don't see that
that often in cannabis.
We know that cannabis has an ability
to do all these different things
but the variety that does it specifically
that you can tell somebody I use this variety
and it did this consistently.
That's rare.
That's why I like that LA Pure Kush
where it's phenomenal grass
but it has an incredible control mechanism on spasticity
that worked across the board on all the people
that we gave it to.
So we can say really unequivocally,
this is something that seems to have this effect
across the board for people.
You can't really say that with a lot of stuff.
Which is exactly why I went to the Bubba.
We were talking about flavors
but that's why I went to it
because I was having back spasms.
Because you got smashed on your bicycle.
Right, yeah.
But I didn't realize that.
I mean, I didn't realize that
it was a turk plate profile in my mind
and I kind of describe it as an earthy,
soapy, gassy flavor.
And the cannabinoids are definitely involved
in those specific things.
But Nick was saying,
I believe that osamine has an antifungal property
and I'm gonna go after.
I think there's an oralidol in there too.
And you went after it, utilized it
and it made an impact.
And it's funny, but it started a whole new conversation
about medical use of cannabis in this direction.
So it's funny is that your ailment,
because they've done such a shitty job
developing treatments for it,
you're forced to self heal.
And you figured out how to use a cannabis variety
that you saw on a video
and you had a hypothesis
and then you went executed that hunt
and got that material
and then executed on the hypothesis improved it.
So it's no longer a hypothesis.
Now it's straight fucking fact
that that shit works for you
in the way that you had thought
and it allows other people to see that.
So it's fascinating to me.
That's the cool part about people that are hunting
for medical need is that you start to see cannabis
in a way that we know that it has properties,
but because there's never been any documented testing on it
that gets you an easily accessed database of info,
you rely on people like Nick that hunt it for need
and then people that platform content like Pete,
because otherwise you won't see the shit.
It's a weird world.
No, it's super cool.
And in the stuff that I'm sifting through too now,
it all has Royal in the background,
but it's not the one way or the another.
A lot of it does.
It's my climate, just like we were talking about.
And I just wanted to kind of like segue
the Ariel, Max, old lady,
or the baby mama.
Nick and I, we're gonna do a fundraiser for her.
We did one a couple of nights ago,
a couple of weeks ago for Duke Diamond
and she's in some need
and she's kind of all on her own raising a couple of kids
and so because we both benefited so much from the genetics,
it just feels like a very easy, awesome,
cool thing for us to do to just rally some more beings
to raise.
So we're gonna do that Thursday
and we'll announce it out there,
but just so people can hear Thursday,
we're gonna go live on Instagram
and try to raise a little money to help them out.
Killer.
I'd like to bounce on that subject right now.
I'm not blowing smoke up Kevin's ass
or the legacy of Raj Truth,
but because of those guys,
Ben, Shango Loves Creating Content,
videos, Future Cannabis Project,
all of this stuff,
when I moved to Michigan,
I was from a non-medical, non-recreational state
and I've been to prison.
So I stayed off the internet as far as searching cannabis.
When I moved to Michigan,
I started searching things and it was Kevin's videos.
Shango's, it was first a video between Kevin and Shango
talking about the history of terpenes
and about CBD coming out and through Ringo
and all that stuff and Lawrence
and all that that I was able to learn
who Kevin or even Shango were
and then able to search those videos.
And then I found on a Shango video
about he's interviewing a mean gene from Mendocino
and he's talking about a powdery mildew resistant strain
and then they're talking about it linking up
with Roel Cush and different stuff.
And then I followed the Meet the Breeders series.
And it's not, I could not, I would not be alive.
We would not honestly be having this conversation
if it was not for that content.
So I hold Kevin to a level like I hold my grandfather
and I hold T Floyd who helped me get into dogs,
whether or not he ever even had communication with me.
I flew out to the Emerald Cup after this actually worked,
after I flew to his dispensary to actually present that
with the neurologist and nurses out there.
And I remember standing in his booth,
he was talking to an individual for 45 minutes
and I would not interrupt.
I was very sick, so I'm very fidgety
and I was like 118 fucking pounds, man.
You could see how sick I was.
And finally Kevin looked over me, he's like,
hey man, can I help you with something?
And I was just like, dude, you help me stay alive.
And when you throw that at somebody
that's kind of hard for them to even absorb.
And I was just like, boom, boom, boom real quick,
powdery mildew resistant strains
that Rise Truth created through your videos.
I ran through RSO and I got out of a wheelchair,
I'm functioning, doctors are amazed, I have proof.
And he's just kind of like, yeah, so nice to meet you.
And then he started communicating with me
and these dudes that are doing shit,
random dudes that are doing shit in their basement,
their garage, their backyard,
you have no idea where that impact is gonna be
several years down the road.
Josh just brought up, Amanda brought up a lady,
Nico, the fact that she's right.
This is a woman whose husband created
some of the most known strains ever and needs help.
And because I'm alive,
we personally take that as a mission right now.
I know she's needing some help with kids,
different stuff like that.
So me and Josh are gonna do an auction
in the next couple of days.
But I just wanna bring up the importance of what,
like all these podcasts, Future Cannabis Project,
Kev, all this stuff, this information that you let out.
There are certain people that are gonna grasp hold of that
and research the shit out of it
to try to save their life and it works.
And for you to give me even a compliment of like,
yo man, you went out and did it to do that,
that means a lot because it was your information
that provided that resource.
I just had to filter through it, apply it,
and run through a lot of material to find the things
that actually worked, log it all, date it all,
and do blood work to back it up
so that the doctors took me serious.
And yeah, I just, I don't know how to say properly,
thank you to all these people that have done these things.
They're not even here, like the fact that Kevin's shooting
a video on Ra's Truth at his place today.
Those are people that are immortalized in our home here
based off our medical health.
So it's all connected.
For me to be able to sit here and have this conversation
with Josh, Peter, and Kevin,
you all played a major impact on my health.
I hope to provide the same thing for others.
That's how you pay that shit forward.
Even if you didn't realize you were doing that,
it still does those things, this mass amount of content
that you guys put out.
And the researching and the stuff that you put into things
to not just say, hey, I'm just gonna grow whatever
and just do it this way, but I'm actually gonna look
into why it does this way.
Powdery mildew resistance strains,
working them towards that overall goal.
That shit has made such an impact on my life
that I'm able to communicate this without stuttering
too much, with living a good life.
Cannabis, I've enjoyed since I was a kid,
but this was, I didn't truly believe in medical
until I had to believe in medical.
And it's not just the seizure control or the spasticity
or anything else.
Sometimes it's just good old fashioned pain control.
When you've had a rough day and you need that gassy,
mercy strain that just knocks your ass into the couch
so you can go to sleep, relax, reboot,
and wake up the next day.
I got pure kush seems to do that.
Bubble kush does that to me.
But putting that information and content
you guys do out there, and these breeders doing work,
hell, where I was just trying to breed a powdery mildew
resistance strain, from that, there is tremendous
true bacterial and parasite resistance healing properties
in that stuff.
And somebody way smarter than me,
that Kevin McNiernan and those type of individuals,
I wish to hell they could spend two weeks with me
to actually see the seizures I go into in different strains
and shit Shannon and dragonfly and heal thyself's garden
and aloha Humboldt and all these people helped
to make tinctures and things to help pull me out of
and actually do this with science.
Whether than some hillbilly in his house in Michigan
trying to stay alive and just figure it out,
that would really put that into a different realm.
And it's just trying to find the right people
that can connect those things.
But raw truth, all those have had a major massive impact
on me based off the strains they have created
and how they have continued to hold me and not just me,
there are multiple Lyme disease victims in America
that have now had RSO from the Royal Kush
that has changed their lives,
that have got them off IV antibiotics,
that have got them off suppulant antibiotics
and all the damn, I mean, that level of antibiotics,
it does damage to you in the gut realm,
it does damage to you in the psychological realm
and to be able to get off those
and give them their life back, it's all from Royal Kush.
I'm doing some illegal shit out in Humboldt or Mendocino
back whenever to create this strain
and I try to bring as much recognition
to those breeders as I can.
Also the tick did that, I'm very more openly empathetic
and saying like, hey, thank you constantly
to the people that have helped me get here.
We all stand on the backs of giants,
I would not be able to do anything here
if these other people hadn't put down this work
and this information and I just appreciate all of you,
so I'll leave it at that for the rambling.
Well, what I love is that Kevin,
I mean, he's singled you guys out
as doing something special,
so I wanted to hear you guys kind of,
and this gets back to like,
what we're talking about kind of what you breed for
and select for, like you guys have that extra layer
and so can you talk some more about kind of,
like Josh, your setup, what's the square footage
and then like how much is dedicated to breeding
and how much is dedicated,
like are you producing flour for the commercial market
or so just breeding?
So.
Well, I kind of, you know what I mean?
Like I started with the concept of producing flour
for the commercial market,
but I just didn't realize where this was going
like most of us and I got into cannabis
because I was in pain,
but also like I didn't wanna work for somebody
and I didn't wanna manage people.
I like being by myself.
I love people and I love talking and connecting,
but I don't want to be teaching people and driving people.
I wanna be just like running and doing my thing
and so anyways, the way it's worked out in Washington,
I haven't been successful getting in into the retail market
and I realized that I didn't wanna do that anyways
and I just have been driven into this genetic thing
and so at this point I have a full 10,000 square feet
and that's a canopy too.
Like I wanna clarify that that's bed space,
so my garden is an acre and it's a lot to handle.
It's definitely too much, definitely way too much,
but it gives me the opportunity
to look at a lot of genetics
and so I'm doing that.
Last year I pulled basically two cultivars.
They were both Testerosa crosses.
One was a Testerosa cross black lime reserve
and another was a Testerosa cross lime vine.
Those were made by urban farmer 707 on Instagram
and he gave me those beans at the regen conference
in little Ziploc baggies
and I just say that because I also,
I probably spent three or four grand buying seeds
from people that year and fancy packages and everything
and I ran a lot of seeds and this is what came through
in the really harsh winter we had
and so I kind of found some really cool stuff
in that bag, black lime reserve,
what I selected for, it's got that Skittles in there
and so what I was kind of going for
was making a dog walker Skittles.
Was I was kind of where I was going.
I liked that dog walker
and I was mixing the Skittles in the joint
and it's kind of a really appealing deal
and so I wanted that cross
and the Skittles is really shitty to grow.
It's just no fun and I don't wanna grow it actually at all.
I don't even have the cut anymore.
Kevin gave it to me and I fucking thank you, Kev,
but I was appreciative to have
but I didn't waste my time with that one anymore
because I got what I found in this
and I got that Skittles flavor with that fuel
and that earth in it.
So I'm using my numbers
and I started with 1200 of those guys this year
and 800 of the lime vines
and then I got a bunch of other stuff
that are in the 800s and the 500s.
I got a bunch of Gene stuff, Skyjaro crosses.
I got some oil spills going.
I got, Kev sent me some lime.
Are they lime reserve across the Cherry Pie BX
or is it just lime?
It's the straight lime to that Cherry Pie BX.
Yeah, I'm really fucking excited about that, man.
It's like I did a couple of starts of it too.
I started some in trays and then I did some direct seeds
that just are popping up now
and man, I'm fucking excited about that.
Cause you do good population size.
See, that's the thing is that,
like when I hooked up with you,
you broke out some fire
and you were talking about,
hey, I'm obsessed with this shit
and I'm doing a regen conference.
And so I started laughing because I was like,
you're all over the fucking place.
But you were because you were hunting the craft so hard
but all the stuff that you selected
was always really outlier dope where it was,
I knew what I was expecting from the search.
Well, you said, look, I'm going through this family.
So I had an idea what I was gonna experience
but you had found something that was always intensified.
And I think it's because you run large populations
and you got a good palate.
So most people aren't going through 700 seeds.
They're not going through the hundreds.
It's hard when you're sniffing like that lemon pie hole.
I sent you, dude, I had a bunch of workers with me
and I'm the fucking shitty boss too.
Like, so they're trimming with me and I'm an asshole.
Like, you know what I mean?
I'm not this loving guy you see at the regen conference.
Like, it's time to fucking work.
And you're, you know what I mean?
Like, you better keep up.
And so I'm, but I'm inside, I'm holding it together inside.
So I'm just kind of a bitter inside more deal.
And so I get up at like one in the morning
so I can work without these motherfuckers
and get some shit done.
And I look at this and I got this section of like,
you know, 600 seeds and I'm like, here we go.
You know, and there, and I just fucking went through them
all myself at night and drinking beer
and wiping my nose with alcohol and fucking
by the end of it, I had six plants standing and you know,
then I pared down from there to the one,
but it was a blast, man.
It's such a blast to go through
because you definitely see the,
oh, there's the hash one that doesn't smell.
Boom, you know, should I keep it maybe to read with?
Fuck man, there's too much work here.
I got, you know, go, go, go.
And-
Yeah, I know, but your selection process though
results in really quality selections.
I mean, because I, you know,
my thing is I've been around people
who've been involved in weed heavy for a long time.
So I get to see everybody's shit.
So like most people get to see their weed,
but I'm getting to see my weed
and everyone else's weed that I know.
And so when you see people hunting through things
and then highlighting what they've chosen,
it's always at a level
because the people we're dealing with
aren't just general,
they're, you know, aficionado type people
where they just really love herb.
So the discernment is there, but there's another level.
And that's where like I give you some props
because you got a damn good developed taste.
And so does Nick too.
That's what tripped me out is that Nick,
Nick's got a good weed background,
but from his ability to make discernment in other things,
he can apply that same skill
and he's got a good mouth
from being a professional booze taster
where you can't just be average and do that.
I don't think average people can pick winning barrels
that distilleries use to build their brand value.
You know, it'd be like pulling dudes off the city bus
to pick your choices
of what you're gonna enter for the market.
So it's the same thing.
It's developed tastes and skills
and then you're applying it to varieties,
but you're doing large population hunts.
And what's cool is you're doing them in a climate
that makes the resulting cultivar come from that dependable.
That's what we were talking about
with what was the legacy of Mandelbrot.
And I was like, the legacy was
that he didn't just breed some good grass.
He bred growable grass,
grass that was reliable and dependable
that you could grow in tough climates
and get a quality product across the board.
It handled the fuel market because it had the potency
and it handled the flavor market
because it had the richness.
It handled the grower market
because it was strong to handle tough, shitty environments.
And I think that that's where I think a lot of breeders
have gone wrong with the breeding is that,
and I had a discussion with someone.
They said, you know, we do all our work in full sun.
And I was like, average individual
doesn't have that environment.
They don't have this optimal environment for cultivation.
You got to give them stuff that has an ability to work
in worse circumstances, but carries a superior smoke.
And so that's where I give you guys some definite,
the props on the selection part is that,
you know, it's cool to me to see people popping up
that their skill level naturally in choices
reflects in what they choose to enter the market in.
Because if you were picking varieties for someone's farm
to lay out as a library,
you'd give them a fucking good diverse group of strains
that would absolutely sell in the market.
Everything that you've sourced that I've touched
has been nothing but solid.
And when I passed it downstream,
it's done the same job for the people
that it did for you at work.
So, you know, it's an art.
And I like that your climate's rough
because it really does satisfy for anybody
who gets into seed, you know, they purchase seed.
Most people don't have beautiful, you know,
Northern Mendocino climate.
Yeah.
Well, that's like the fucking coolest,
I mean, the coolest thing that you could say, man.
Thank you.
Oh, it's honest, dude.
If you were all fucked up, I'd tell you.
No.
No, but I said this before,
but yeah, when we met at the Turk Festival,
that was the first time I ever did anything public
and I won all these awards and it was really fucking cool.
And what I took away from that night was Kevin Jodry,
Kevin Jodry, whoever that guy on stage was,
you know, and people were talking to me
and I just wanted to go talk to you
because you knew more about weed than anyone I ever met.
Absolutely.
And I remember, you know, my friend Jim,
I told him that night, I was like, dude,
if that guy ever could smoke my weed
and think that it was good, man,
that would be my sign of approval
that I had actually done something beyond my head.
Oh yeah, no, you did, brother.
You've been pumping out fire for a long time
and it was just really nice that, you know,
when you put the Regen Conference on,
I was touched that you asked me to be part of it
because I'm not a Regen specialist.
And so it was really nice to be part of an event
with so many really smart, talented people
that I could learn from them about things
that I didn't know a lot about.
And the people in the audience were brilliant.
So, you know, you get an education from them
and it allows you to share the knowledge
and it allows you to, we got to spend enough time
in enough different cities over time
to where you get a feel for the people.
And I've seen you enough in between then
to where you start to see a consistency
of someone's situation,
where even at the Regen Conferences,
you'd be like, hey, I got all this herb today.
This nugget is the one.
And we would laugh, but it would be fucking good.
And I'd be like, nice, because, you know,
not many people know how to pull the best shit out,
you know, and so it's, you guys got skills.
It's been, and you're good dudes.
So it makes me happy to see you guys forming up a partnership
and you do a lot of work now that I respect
where you do auctions, just like Gene does.
And there's a lot of people that do auctions
that are genuine, where they put up things
to generate funds for people that are having a fucked up time
and the auction for Duke to get money
towards his legal issues, you know, that was genuine.
Yeah, people were asking, can you give an update
on what the status of that is?
That was the problem.
I mean, I don't want to blast on anybody
because we did, me and Josh went through this
from the goodness of our heart.
I love Duke, but I couldn't get kept in the loop
with that team.
I constantly try to stay in the loop with that team.
I have not been able to get accurate information.
And there was a point in discussion where I stepped back.
It's, you know, I have nothing but love and respect
for Duke Diamond doing anything in the world for him.
But if I can't get accurate communication,
I don't exactly know what to do.
So I'm limited in my ability there.
We ran an auction, we put up all of our personal seeds,
a couple other dudes jumped on board
and was able to raise quite a bit of money
for that situation.
I know from what I understand,
Duke got caught on weapons charges,
supposedly with having a previous felony.
That's gonna be a long standing, you know, legal fight,
especially in the current climate of, you know,
our politics and what's going on in the country.
That's an issue he's gonna be in
for a little bit of time.
So I know that surely we were over the $60,000 mark.
I mean, me and Josh raised about $9,000.
There should be lawyer fees and stuff there.
I know me and Gene and Blockchain.
Don't still go.
And yes, they're still going with stuff.
And, you know, my focus on the auctions,
for me personally, when I got sick with this tick bite,
I caught 13 different bacterial
and viruses and parasitic infections.
But I caught one, Quasimodovirus meningitis encephalitis,
the only 75 people in the world that ever had
all in America and Canada since 1908.
And I'm one of the few functioning to knowledge
that ever had Ploss.
And I lost homes, cars, dogs, everything in the event
to pay over $189,000 for experimental antibiotics,
tons of plasma, tons of oxygen therapy
and different vitamins and supplements to stay alive
at the beginning that people had to start raising money
for me and it blew my mind that Jackson being Leo
from Blockchain Novelties and Dark Horse Genetics
all jumped on board to keep me alive
when I was at my darkest.
Now, I personally spent time with Ariel,
Manobrot's wife, she is the sweetest, loveliest lady.
And Manobrot's son, Nico, I believe it was a genetic,
I'm not exactly sure medical condition
that the same thing that Manobrot ended up passing away
from I believe is what caused the condition in Nico.
I'm not 100% mistaken on that.
She has a pregnant child to be taken care of.
So me and Josh, I mean, we linked up
at the Regen Conference two years ago
based off a podcast he'd done where he got injured
and he stated that he would repot plants
and he would be down for two weeks.
I was having seizures in the grow room
and having to crawl in there to get this done,
to get medicine done.
And me and him connected on a conference
of 18 months ago in Michigan.
And it was instant like, hey, what's up?
I walked right up to him and gave him a bunch of seeds.
I'm like, you should grow this shit.
And he in turn gave me sweatshirts.
And then something weird happened to where I speak to Josh
more verbal words per day than sometimes I do my own.
I FaceTime Josh four to five times a week.
I've never been this comfortable talking to a human being
almost in the level of therapy
that whether it's selection or venting or talking,
you just get comfortable with someone.
And through that, we decided
we wanted to start breeding together.
We've already been doing projects together for a while
and we had to come up with an idea and a plan and all that.
And we asked Kevin for input in the last few weeks
on how to do that.
Because it's not just the breeding is a money thing, yes,
but there's also a medical aspect to it.
And there's also a lifestyle and a culture aspect to it
as well.
And to be able to use the genetics that people pass down
to create medical and recreational strains
that are able to help people and then use that for good.
That's really the same mindset me and Josh are on.
And so he came up with the idea on the name,
I think it was house of selection
or something of that nature.
And that's something that I'm gonna be passionate about
because we've already been doing this together
for a long time.
And now it's more doing that auction.
Josh brought up the other day,
like it shouldn't just be negative things
that people try to help people out with.
It should be positive things
and like helping people get stuff launched
and things of that nature.
Josh, you may take over here, I'm rambling.
I got about five grams of RSO kicking into me
about 20 minutes ago.
But doing something for Ariel,
doing something for some different people auction
while I was online,
it makes you feel good
because you're able to give back to people
that have given you so much.
And people-
Yeah, and we're such a small community
and it's been really eyeopening to see like,
there's this stuff that people want.
For instance, when we did the auction for Duke,
Kev put up his creme brulee seeds
and people are dying for those seeds.
And so it's like, hell yeah,
there's a lot of people
that are gonna pay some money to do it
and are happy to fucking do it.
It's such a brilliant way to help each other out.
And so my mind just went to like,
we could buy somebody a tractor if they need it.
Or we could buy them the soil for their garden
to help somebody launch a system.
This is an easy, fun way to raise money amongst ourselves.
So we just wanted to make that kind of part
of what we do on the regs.
And we're gonna kind of start that.
Kev helped to help with the idea
of the name on House of Selection.
And it kind of took a few minutes, but it was really fun.
And man, I love the way your brain works, Kev,
watching you kind of sift through that
and categorize things.
You got a good mind, bro.
Put the puzzle pieces together.
Yeah.
But when you trust people to that nature,
you can say, hey, handle this
or bounce those ideas off there
because it's of the same mindset.
Me and Josh were calling each other constantly
and emailing back and forth on just different ideas
and then bouncing them off Kevin
and then him giving either validation to the idea
or saying, hey, you should go a different direction.
And then when you even take that input in
and think about it, it's like, wow, that makes sense.
So having people of like mind, bouncing ideas off people
gets you out of that stagnant area
you can get in on selection.
And I think that's what the overall goal here
on that stuff is.
Well, so what have you guys been like,
give me some examples of conversations.
Like what's the topic?
What's the challenge in front of you that you're like,
should I go this way or that way?
Josh has a test or else a black line reserve
that I'm digging very much myself growing
that I'm gonna put real push on
in the next probably two weeks.
And then working that,
I think the most important thing is to work three
to four lines and really work those a year
and not try to focus on 20, 30, 40 different things
to really focus on something
you have to put attention to it,
whether it was dogs, bird, any of that stuff.
So focusing on just three or four things right now,
I'd like to take that rule,
coach chemical smell into the wildness
of the black line reserve test Rosa.
And it can be extremely wild interpret profiles
from orange that surpasses Tangy and Callie O
to something that's more Skittles lean.
And we even talked about ideas like
I've got a real Rose from Emerald mountain
and he's got the original test roast
will test Roses Skittles to roll coach to skills.
Well, real Rose is real coach to Skittles to roll coach.
Well, we're gonna take those and put those to each other
in the dog world.
That's a three, three line breed.
I don't know what that's called in plant shit.
And I'm not even gonna pretend to act
like I know botanist wise,
but that would stack rule, Kush and Skittles in a way
on that plant that would make them shine through
and be able to be all that strain
over 10, 12 different years of selecting.
And it's just weird ideas like that.
We bounce off each other every day
as we're working through the garden,
wearing headphones, talking to each other.
And it makes the day just go so much more enjoyable.
But right now me doing something
with the black line reserve and the test Rossa
into the rural Kush is what I like to focus on.
And I'm doing a lot of hunting and ask permission
from Jackson to use the Jupiter's cock in breeding.
And he gave me permission on that.
So is Jupiter's is a hard to describe plant.
It can go from a fruit and lime
to a blood metallic menthol smell in there.
The terpenes are so wild.
They carry through on the RSO when I cook down.
So putting that into the test Rossa black line reserve
and getting a little bit more
of true essential oil type flavors there
that are just so different
from the spectrum of the normal shit
that we try every day is what I would like to find.
And you have a level of gas and a stringent in there.
And if you put that fermented fruit
which is almost a gas in its own way being fermented
on top of that other gas, I don't know how to describe it
but there's just smells coming out of there
that I'm really excited about.
And that's the stuff me and he would keep bouncing back
and forth with each other.
I think a lot of to answer that.
I think a lot of things I've been learning
is the dog stuff has been so helpful to hear
about the dog breeding
because they're just breeding one thing.
They're just breeding OG Kush.
And they've been doing it for, you know
and that's why I hadn't wanted him to ramble
on about that a bit
because to understand the magnitude
of their breeding at OG Kush, they're talking
about the details in it.
And he just, they're bringing in this
one family from over here just to bring a little bit
of diversity, but they're still, it's all within OG Kush.
And they have a little bit of variation.
They have the show line, they have the working line
they have the American pet line, breed line.
You know what I mean?
Right? I've kind of learned about this stuff
but it's been really fascinating to think about that
and translate that to cannabis.
And we don't have that.
And that's why, you know earlier
I was trying to get to that too.
Kevin's content and a lot
of this content has been setting the foundation.
And so the kids that are coming up, man
when they hear this stuff
and they're able to look at this, they're gonna
they're gonna just run really fast
because we have no foundation for a lot of this stuff.
You know, a lot of us, you know, myself, especially
cause I've been, you know, up here in Washington
and I'm not down in California where they, they, they open
cannabis has just been more open down there, you know
a lot longer.
And it's, it's been fascinating to hear people, you know
Jackson's been a big, a big guy to talk to and hear him talk
about different cultivars.
And then, and then I got to run stuff
like the dog Walker we were talking about earlier.
It's, it's chem 91 or chem four on Albert Walker.
And I don't, I don't know Albert Walker, but last year
I ran four different crosses with Albert Walker.
And, and now I'm just like, I know, I
I know what that Albert Walker is putting
in all those motherfucking things.
Cause I just saw like, you know
600 plants that had Albert Walker crosses in it.
And so now I look at, at, at, at dog Walker and I'm like
okay, I got that.
And then I ran into skunk VA in Denver and I'm like, dude
I don't know if I've ever smoked any verified chem
like I've had this shit, but I couldn't tell you what
what chem this chem that is like.
So he gave me some nugs and he's like, you know
he couldn't go out with me
but he gave me some nugs to go burn.
And I came back and I was like, oh dude, I got it.
Like it just lined up all the flavors for me.
And it was, it was a really fucking powerful experience.
And we don't, we don't have that.
You know, like I was just saying with the dogs
we don't have that with cannabis.
And so I don't really know where I was going with that
but it's just really fucking interesting stuff.
And that's, that's what the stuff that's been prodding me
on with, with Nick and, and encouraging me to
kind of think differently about what I'm looking at,
you know, because yeah, I'm just going to say the same thing.
Or you said you never bred Albert Walker
but you worked with all the crosses.
I never get to see some of the dogs in these lineages
especially in Germany, I'm having to watch videos.
I'm having to watch training videos.
I'm having to walk, work off experience.
But if you run enough of the project
you know what it's like, even though you didn't run it
you know, in pure form.
So that's, that's the way I've had to do all selections
off dogs were breeding to a dog
or making a line breeding off a dog that's already dead
and has been dead for 12, 15 years based off genetics,
based off breeding.
Even if I never personally touched that dog
I saw what it's produced.
Like if I had to pick and Matt Wright
and other people like that are way more
no more on genetics than I ever will on cannabis
but the plants that consistently are produced as a breeder
Kim D is triangle cush.
There are certain ones that have consistently
knocked out good progeny and you can consistently see that.
So going into that and selecting those plants
with a backbone on that gives us a stability
like rural cush or something from Ross true selections
that there is a strong foundation there
of production and stability.
It's a lot easier to use those strains
to build a foundation from.
Jack Jackson's been really cool for me in that way.
And I feel like the work he's done has been
he's built himself a big tool, tool shed, big toolbox.
And he, he's just like ready to kind of make whatever
you know, he wants.
And so what I'm, I'm asking him about stuff.
He's like, well, this will put that on there
and that on there.
And it's like, I'm calling the chef
like while I'm actively kind of looking at this stuff
and he, you know, it's really fucking fun to talk to that.
Yeah, you need, you need, you need inspiration
from your friends.
You gotta, you gotta get, you gotta surround yourself
with cats that have a taste.
They're picky that, that are looking for, you know
interesting, cool shit.
And then that way it always lets you see possibilities.
And then you gotta get good foundation stock.
Like you were talking to good chem D is always
in your nice foundation to use.
If you want to lay some, you know, garlic funk with power.
I just got back the original SFE
that Mandel brought into Humboldt County.
So Mandel was like the first dude to bring real, real OG
real sour into the County and spread it out.
So there was a few people that had touched it already
but he was one of the first dudes that really brought it in.
And that was the, the, I got the Royal from him first
but then him and his boy, Dave from Arizona
kicked me that, that SFE cut.
And that SFE took 14th at the Emerald Cup
out of like 1400 varieties, 1300, something crazy.
And it was the highest place in OG ever ranked
but I just got it back from Sergio at Cultivated
in Sacramento, they're a nursery in Sac
that runs a TC based plants.
And he had gotten a copy of that cut through me
had it scrubbed at the lab and now they're releasing it.
And I just got the TC version back
and it's just so fucking real looking
but I don't want to have that SFE back in hand
with no obstruction on it
because I'd love to be able to use that
to lay other paint on top of it
because the base plant itself is just phenomenal.
If you have to work with good stock period
you can put a bunch of bunk together
but from dog breeders that I got to hang out with
I really got to see the problem with a feline aggression
where you will always end up with the average.
So anytime you bring sub-par material into the gene pool
it brings down the overall long-term potential.
And if you consistently add sub-par material
eventually that's what you'll be stuck with
is breeding stock is sub-par.
And so if you can go find stock
that has just been absolutely proven
to be successful in a market
you can take it and swing the directions to fit your needs.
So you're not just really bootlegging that thing
you're adding to it.
But like, I was just excited
because I was showing that clone today
and I was like, no, this was like the first OG that I got
that was phenomenal.
And it's probably what we would call
like a quintessential OG
where everyone thinks that's what OG is.
It's that astringent hospital smell OG Kush.
And the little man's crying in the back.
So I asked if anyone had any questions
or earlier on someone had asked
about the Roberts Creek Congo
and someone can talk about it in depth.
Oh man, the Roberts Creek is nasty.
That came out of, there's a good history to it.
There was actually a track on it from its inception
where somebody got it out of a freighter out
in out of a Congolese freighter.
The individual takes the seeds
and he goes to Canary Islands and he breeds it out to F4.
It's in the Canary Islands for a number of years
that F4 selection cutting moves over to Canada.
It's held there for like 20 years.
And then it kind of gets dispersed into the system.
And there was a dude named Vision Creator
that was the one who held the cut in Canada.
And I ended up getting a copy of it through Tara.
And I gave some out because she said,
hey, we wanna see this moved.
And then Vision Creator hit me up and said,
hey, I would love it if you put this into the system
because cannabis like this needs to be shared.
And so I pop up a bunch of them
when I go to any of the events
and I've been passing them out.
But it's just a really, really unique plant
in the sense that typically flower
that gives you that much uplifting high
doesn't have a good frame for cultivation.
It doesn't finish in a reasonable time.
So like the Congo is like a hundred days indoor.
And it came out mid November for me up on the hill
and it finished.
But we had the climate got cold and tight.
And so it ripened.
But I bet if we had a little bit longer season,
you could probably go to like Thanksgiving time.
But man, it's just stunning cannabis
in the sense that it is absolutely clear, powerful, clean.
My buddy smoked it.
He grew some in Oregon and he was laughing
and he was making it into smoothies and smoking it.
And he said, Kevin, he goes,
I only ate like three meals in four days.
It was so different than what he consumes normally
that it was almost like a complete stimulant to a system.
So that Roberts Creek is bad-ass
because it gives you a really clear high
and it has a nice thickness to the flavor too.
So it's satisfying and the high is pulsing.
You can feel it coming on strong and it holds.
Good growability, beautiful plant outside.
I got one going this year again.
Yields, yields.
Yeah, yeah, it throws down.
And the Canadians can't do it outdoor.
So I had people that had it in operations.
They asked me not to reveal the picture of the operation
because it was at LPs.
But they said, hey, this is the Roberts Creek in our indoor.
And I got to see what it looked like in an LP grow.
And I was like, whoa.
Then my buddy did it indoor and I was amazed.
And I did a beauty outside last year.
So she was thick.
So I got a couple of pounds off of that plant
and I just jarred it up.
And it's anybody who wants really clear-headed ethereal pot,
I'll throw them a satchel of it.
And it's just really, it's just stunning.
And what I liked about it most too
was it was something that had been held
by somebody for a long time
and their desire to see it moved into the world
so that good cannabis like that gets shared and spread.
You got to get the plants into the population
so that people can fall in love with them.
And their love for that opens up their reception
to other cannabis types and people.
I mean, cause I don't give a shit.
You still, even though you got this massive acceptance
of cannabis, there's still stigma.
And the stigma has to get knocked out.
And the way it gets knocked out
is through people making benefit from cannabis.
That's why this stuff that Nick was talking about
with he hunted something to have a medical effect
that has a huge impact on mainstream people
because the number of people who are having issues
that can't be healed from Western medicine is insane.
And they're searching homeopathic medicine constantly.
Now you're seeing this, this huge change
in how we perceive healing.
And when you're able to take cannabis
and show that it can work in so many different ways
you end up having a radically different group of people
who accept it as a legitimate source.
And they also start to be able to put their expertise on it
their influence on it.
And you start to drive it in a way
that only a diverse culture of acceptance can.
Cause that's why you gotta hang out with different dudes.
If you're selecting, you can't just be the only cat
on your team without any feedback ever
or you end up taking yourself down one hall.
You got to have some people bounce off of
so that you can always kind of see what's going on.
What's trends, what's are you stalemated with your style?
I call it stylized.
It's where you get fixed into something
and you stick with it so much
that you don't see other avenues.
And I think it diminishes your creativity.
And so you always have to make sure
that you're getting new stimulus
just to bounce back against yourself
to make sure that you're always moving forward.
It's kind of like wearing the clothes you wore
when you were in high school.
Like they were cool then
and it makes you feel good to wear that shit.
If you put that shit on now, you're looking fucking stupid.
So, you know what I mean?
So that's how I kind of see it
is you got to have constant stimulation from people
and they have to have different directions than you.
But the idea is that you're all trying to go
to the same place of quality experience
benefit for the end user.
And that way it allows you
to not have petty competitiveness.
It lets you all really work collaboratively.
And I think that breeding teams
and like to say, you guys getting together
Jackson does some cool joint projects with people
where he'll work with someone in conjunction
to produce something interesting.
I love that stuff.
It to me, it's the fascination
because you get to really see dissimilar directions merged.
And in that you get to see really what's that
what's the exploration of the potential there.
Jackson has been wonderful.
For me as far as bouncing out the ideas and shit off of
and even getting more in depth into the power
of resistance strains.
I mean, I go off his word.
I go, Lowe's was at my house in Michigan, busy.
The room was shutting down indoors.
And I'm like, man, I gotta go in there
and spray everything down with water and floweries.
I'm trying to create power.
And he was just mind blown.
And I'm like, man, I'm trying to find those outliers
that do this stuff based off what these guys say.
And every time it was consistent
and I've had a powdery mildew plant in my indoor room
falling over on a certain rule of pushes
and pinas that were just rocks.
And then with Michigan's environment,
it's the rain woken up in September.
Being able to go through that selection process
based off all the fucking work that Mandelbrot,
Ben and Jackson did on these different lines for years
benefit me now.
I'm so very loyal to all these people,
including everybody on this panel
because y'all kept me alive.
Y'all pay fucking medical bills in a roundabout way.
I'm trying to explain that to people.
Like I grow fucking pina gorilla style
and it pays off all the antibiotics.
Then Jackson's like a brother to life for me
in a roundabout way.
And then I'm like,
I'm sorry, Kevin for introducing it.
Josh for bouncing the ideas off of.
And it's the community I'm very, very strong to
and that's a lot different after my brain swelled.
Before I was a lot more of a asshole than I am now
and standoffish now I'm just like,
I love these people that have helped me.
And it's getting to bounce these ideas off these guys
use the work that they've done
and actually take the work that they've done
serious and for face value
and be able to just jump on that motorcycle
already going 80 miles an hour.
They cut out all the fucking main work for me.
And that was the same way where it was
with a certain dog breeders where I knew
Salzblatt Kennel in Germany, T Floyd in America,
the car kennel,
certain people consistently put out the dogs
that I could trust to breed to
being able to have that collaboration
and that knowledge is so very vital
than going off in 1999,
first time I ordered seeds from Amsterdam
just based in a catalog off description.
And I think I picked a strain that actually said low odor,
you will not need a carbon filter
because that's what you needed back then not to go to jail.
So I guess even having that information was good
but the most important thing is keeping data,
right?
And all this shit down in before
that shit caught you films in certain states.
Now, if you're in a legal state
and you're not keeping data on these stuff,
there's no excuse for that.
That's the only way you can evolve this breed
and try to get the real goals that you're trying to get.
But guys, I hate to bounce off here
but I got so much RSO on me.
I might've been talking about Michael Jordan
and Dennis Rodman playing basketball.
I was actually gonna say, right?
Well, I was thinking of what right before you said that,
that I wanted to be cognizant that it's,
you're three hours ahead of us, right?
I mean, it's almost one in the morning.
And Shannon starts feeding me RSO,
the first schedule is at 6.30 PM and we're at 12.47.
And in that time I've took four and a half grams of RSO
plus micro ghost mushrooms, plus a ton of other supplements
and I've smoked nonstop during this interview.
I feel wonderful right about now.
I'm feeling amazing.
So you wanna end on a high note.
But I do wanna say like all jokes aside,
I'm not taking four grams of RSO for just micro reasons.
It's very important in medical aspects,
even based off recreational shit.
Hell, there's a dude, Berner from cookies.
Man, his cookie strain,
I've had three separate times in RSO
has helped me in significant ways on inflammation.
I'm sure that when these guys fucking ever
made this fucking strain, they weren't thinking,
hey, this form cut cookies is gonna really help this dude
one day with some fucking inflammation
and be able to climb out of bed.
But that stuff does.
And to be able to balance that inflammation
because Kevin may end up busting up a fucking knee this year
working outdoors and that's-
Go say that shit.
10,000 times more.
I mean, 10,000 times more than the Lord tabs
and the other fucking inflammation shit
they're gonna put you on.
You go after these different RSO strains.
So on that note, I love you guys.
And this has been a wonderful evening for me
to get to share it with y'all.
And I probably blabbered way more than I should on RSO,
but I'm just very excited to even be able to sit here
with you guys.
So thank you all for the opportunity.
No, and I thank you guys.
I mean, that was amazing.
And I wanna get it.
I mean, I have like,
I could go on forever with you guys right now,
but we'll pick it up again soon.
Cause I do wanna hear more about like your intent
and like what you're working on.
But this was great.
And there are about 250 people still watching right now
at almost 10 at night on a Saturday night.
So we'd like to thank all of you.
And with that, I will kill the YouTube stream.
