Hello, hello, hello everybody and welcome again to another episode of Cannabis for Breakfast.
We have a repeat offender back today, but we're going to get into him in a couple seconds
because beforehand we got a little bit of huskiness. Let's thank our sponsors, Bavita
and Wildfire Pro Glass. These two amazing companies help really move future cannabis
and cannabis for breakfast forward. So make sure you go check them out. Also check out
Unicorn Cup. It's going to be banging this year. They got pre-sale tickets out and available
already. So if you don't miss out, they're going to run out of tickets like really fast.
This year is going to be crazy. And then what other things? We've got lots of amazing stuff
coming in. Stay tuned for further announcements. We have later this week, we have some amazing
human beings coming in as well as the amazing human being that we have on this episode that
will be very shortly. But later on today we have James F. White. We're going to be talking
about the Rhizophage cycle. That's going to be a really fun subject. So make sure to be
back for that one tonight on the Dank Hour. That'll be featured on channel two. And then
we also have later on this week, we've got Butterfly Effect tomorrow, the Butterfly Sessions
tomorrow. Lots of amazing content. We have Rick from Brothers Grimm coming in on Saturday
with another episode with Ron. So be back for that one. We're getting close to Christmas
here so don't miss out on some of the stuff. We'll have some interesting things happening
and you don't want to miss out on any of the good stuff. So make sure to hit those follow
likes and all that stuff. But without any further ado, I'd like to welcome our special
guest for the day. Where is it? There's me. And there we are, Steve Creation. Michael,
how are you today? I'm going to be out in Italy soon so I'm going to need to make sure
to really get my ability to communicate a little bit better when it comes to pronouncing
your name. I'm super excited to have you here today and get into an awesome conversation
and a little bit of a look around your garden and a follow up really to our last show where
we got to check out some of your garden. But we're going to get to dig into it a little
bit further now. So how are you doing? Welcome. Welcome, welcome, welcome.
Hello, hello, everybody. Thank you to have me here. I'm very happy to be here with you today.
And we are going to show our results of this 2022 season. We are very happy and proud of
all our success and also all our mistakes because it's from them that we learn more.
And thank you, London, to ask me to be here. I hope that my English and my strength during this
conversation will be nice for you. I mean, like, I'm sorry. Let me know if you guys have
the severe latency that I'm seeing because my screen is like super glitchy. I don't know about
you, Michael, but it's really off for me. And how about you guys in the audience? Are you guys
seeing it pretty glitchy out too? I'd just like to know. But yeah, there's some exciting stuff
happening here. I'm actually in a completely different space than I would regularly be
streaming from. I mean, I'm still in my house, which is good. But I'm actually looking at in
March of this next year. I'm going to be out there in Italy. I'm hopefully visiting you at
some point. But because of that, I have to shut down my growing. I can't start any more seeds.
I can't start anything. So I'm getting itchy. But it is what it is. So that's why you don't see me
as typically surrounded by plants as always. But yeah, so tell me a little bit about this season
this year. I heard there were some hot spells or some challenges. There were some issues. What was
the growing season like in Italy this year? The growing season was very, very difficult.
We have got a lack of rain. We've got a very heavy hot temperature for a long period.
So it was a real challenge. But the quality was very good. And we are very happy about
how the varieties that we have made and that we have reproduced in those years
adapt to those challenges. We cannot say that it was an easy season. It was one of the toughest
years in the last decades. But I guess that we need to be used to all of those challenges.
And once you will get here, you will understand. Now we are lucky to have good rain during November.
So we hope to have a good season in front of us. Instead of that, the last year was very difficult.
But the resilience of the variety show all is strength point.
And I'm pretty happy about how the variety is restrained in terms of chemotype. We have very
good results to show. And we are going to talk more deeply about that. And I'm very happy about
the quality. Our customers are happy. And that is all that we want. It's all about this. Having
a customer, good relationship with them. And every time my partner, my associates, my farmers,
they say always the same thing. It's something pretty basic. But I believe in it very strongly.
Every time that you do a job, you have to think about why they are coming to you and giving to
you their money. Must be a reason. Otherwise, it doesn't long so much. So could be simple or
easy to say, but having a happy customer, it's something that means a lot for me,
especially in these harsh conditions. So what exactly are the harsh conditions
that you're going into? I mean, we've talked about it before, but mostly it's dry and just
incredibly hot for periods of time. And what are the challenges that you're going into?
These two things together, the lack of water in the soil and the hot temperature for a long time,
it means that the work becomes much, much more difficult. We have to say the truth. There is
also a good side. We have got a beautiful autumn with no mold, no disease, no issue in the drying
process. So everything have a good side and a bad side. Unfortunately for us,
our infrastructure for water, it's old and needed to be replaced in mostly of our country.
We lose too much water during the process to be carried to farmers where you need it.
And we are paying this. We are paying the climate changes and the fact that mostly of the time,
our infrastructure for water are old and need big investments to be replaced in order to be able to
goes on working in those conditions. We have a change of weather that is quite fast.
As I told you in last times that we met us in the show, we are under desert condition.
We are lucky to have a lot of forests around us that prevent the desertification process. But
for the cycle of the water, the water is not moving from wet places to dry places.
So all the places that are generally wet continent, obviously the part of the world,
they remain wet. Instead, our side that is the dry area in the Mediterranean Sea
have precipitation that are less than 20% than how it's necessary. So it's quite a challenge.
It's not impossible to deal with it. It's just a matter of time because all those changes
happen so fast and us as generation that are taking place don't have got the time to rebuild
all the infrastructure that we need. Also because those infrastructure were much less needed,
you know, in the past. So we have to stop it.
Well, while you grab that phone, we do have a dropping guest today that we have a special
event happening. So I'd like to introduce Jordan River to the group. Hey, how's it going,
brother? Good to see you, my friend. Good to see you, Sativa Creations. It's awesome to listen to
this. Fantastic. Thank you for having me. We're excited to have you along, of course,
as always. So why don't you tell us a little bit about the special event that you have coming up?
Oh, of course, man. Well, I am Jordan River from Growcast Podcast for all the listeners out there.
If you're a fan of cultivation, make sure to find Growcast. Look for the purple leaf. Good
friend of London's, of course. Second time on this show. Thank you for having me back. And,
you know, I'm right in the middle of this Living Soil Masterclass Tour with Alexandria Irons. I'm
kind of playing into what Sativa Creations was saying a second ago, really like expanding my mind
on outdoor growing, on native soil, on agricultural geography. It's very, very fun. Very, very
interesting. And yeah, I appreciate you, London, you know, being interested in the tour. We're in
Hawaii, December 10th, and we're coming out to Virginia in January. I want to get up near you,
man. Get up in B.C. and scope some of that soil. I would love to do that one day, man.
We have an incredible environment here. And like, I mean, we're a rainforest, right? So we have kind
of a unique space. And there's a reason why you have like... Yeah, we're an arboreal rainforest,
if I'm correct. So it's, we get a lot like, I mean, usually it would rain from September 1st
all the way up until, you know, December, pretty much the whole winter. Specifically here in
Vancouver, we have a little bit more temperate of environment, but it's not so bad. But lots of
microbiology, lots of stuff in the soil, lots of cool things going on there.
I love it, dude. And that's what I've been seeing on all these tours, like getting to scope the
native soil. I'm an indoor grower. So I've been trying to build my living soil mix, you know, my
potting mix to be biologically active. But what's been really interesting is seeing, you know, the
Chicago growers' indoor living soil bed versus some of the Illinois guys from out in the fields
and that native soil. Seeing the red dirt from Oklahoma and the high clay and what types of
bacteria and fungi are thriving in these different soil structures. It's really incredible, man. And
I've learned quite a bit. Just to throw it out there, growcastpodcast.com slash classes is where
you can find all of our classes. And I'm hoping to do way more into 2023, man. London, I'm tired of,
I mean, listen, I'm so glad that we can connect here over the internet. We wouldn't be able to
see each other anyways, but I'm a little bit tired of all the digital and I want to bring it
in person. And that's what we're doing with these masterclasses. So I appreciate your help and
hopefully we can burn one together one day while I'm looking at some soil from British Columbia.
I really hope that can happen, man. Well, if not, I'm coming to you one way or another. Like I was
telling you, we're actually usually like you remember last time we were in this, I actually
projected with the background. Like I'm usually in my garden. Very rarely in my garden. You got
your plants behind you usually. Yeah. So we're actually packing things up because I have to stop
planting because in three months, three and a half months, four months, we're going to be
flying off to Italy for three months for our first three months. And then coming back and
figuring out what we're doing. So maybe we'll have to cross paths on the way back and make it into a
party because we're just going to be floating around and kind of touring the ideas, talk to
some farms, talk to places and kind of utilize the network and see where we can go to help support,
grow and develop the community and do some content creation and stuff like that. I love doing
on location stuff too. It's a lot of fun, especially when you can give people that raw
like on location live image and get people comfortable and situated like in on the
conversation as well. It's a lot of fun. So one thing that's interesting about what you're doing
is you're traveling a lot, right? So you're getting a look at soil from all over the place.
Now, you know, you probably haven't been out to see, you know, soil in Italy, like the creations
or like you said, you haven't been. I would love to. We got places for you to stay. You can come
stay at my place, man. But what we have, what have you learned through going through the U.S. and
checking out all these different soils? What's the what's the dynamic there? We actually like
awesome. You're going to love this. You know who's on the show tonight on the Denkauer?
Oh, Dr. White, right? Yeah. Dr. James White. We're going to be talking about the Rhizophage
cycle right back here at five o'clock tonight. So like I mean, talk about a great, great point
of conjecture. So what do you see in this cycle? Because I think it's very interesting. I hear
there's some interesting aspects of regionality when it comes to microbiology. Oh, yeah, man. 100
percent. And first of all, I would just dream of getting out to anywhere in Europe. We were
thinking about going to Spanibus. I would love to continue this soil scoping worldwide. And we have
been up to Toronto. So technically we've busted out of the U.S., but not North America. Man,
I've learned a lot on this tour. I've learned that you can grow. Well, I've learned things that I
kind of already knew, right, which is you can grow cannabis, great cannabis in a variety of
different ways. You can grow great organic cannabis in a variety of different ways. But what's really
kind of blown my mind is a the difference between native soil and potting mix, like looking at the
microbiology that growers work so hard to build into their living soil beds versus the microbiology
that exists in the ground when you just plug right into it and start regenerating the land. Man, I
cannot wait to grow in ground for the first time. Native microbes are so fucking sorry. Are we
allowed to swear? Are so free? Oh, hell yeah. OK, good cannabis project. It's fucking Fridays.
When we think about microbes in our cannabis grow, a lot of times our minds jump to a couple of
different products, right? Products that we may use. And these products are very heavy in bacteria
and very heavy in fungi. And the important thing to understand about what's in that bottle
of microbes is that those are just the ones that they can stabilize and get into that bottle.
There are millions, trillions of other microbial species out in nature that cannot be replicated
in a petri dish, cannot be stabilized into a product like this. And when you plug in in ground,
you instantly tap into the entire soil food web. And hopefully your area isn't too damaged by
all of the modern things that we do with modern farming and modern living.
But every time we saw a native soil sample and we put it under the scope, it was like a river
of bacteria flowing. It didn't matter if it was prairie dirt from Illinois. It didn't matter if
it was red dirt from Oklahoma or if we were out in in Buffalo, where there's a lot of sand in the
soil. Native soil rules. And that's because native microbes rule. And if you're going for biodiversity,
native soil is a really important part of that. That's why so many people do indigenous microorganism
collections, because you're starting to harness some of those native microbes and bring them in.
The other thing I will specifically say is I've noticed a big difference between the growers
who use aquatic inputs versus those who do not. When we're talking about microbiological diversity,
we really tend to focus sometimes on the terrestrial side, right? All those soil microbes,
all the plant ferments, composting and these types of things. But really, there's a whole world of
aquatic microbes out there. And whether you're adding in aquarium water or a product like fish
shit or something you made yourself like a fish amino acid, that's a whole different category of
microbes that perform very, very important functions and again, will increase the stimulation due to
the biodiversity. And the interesting thing about aquatic microbes, our good friend Steve
Reisner was enlightening me. About 80 percent of the microbes that exist in those aquatic inputs
can not only establish in your living soil, but actually procreate and stick around and proliferate.
So it really blows people's mind to think that like most, the vast majority of the living
organisms in that pond water is going to love your living soil bed. So don't neglect
either of those things. But as far as traveling the country, man, people grow good all over.
People grow well in soil that's got a variety of different textures and compositions.
Again, I was stunned by how well these clay soils do. And the cationic exchange capacity of clay
is very, very high. So when you see the plants that are grown in living soil that came from a
clay heavy environment, it's really, really beautiful product. Whereas it's a little bit
different, like I said, out east where there's like more sand or in Florida, we scoped the soil
in Florida and it was very sandy. It makes for a very interesting differences and nuances between
these growers. But at the end of the day, we smoked so much good product from living soil
indoor beds, from outdoor beds, from outdoor in ground, even from some synganic grows.
So at the end of the day, no matter what your composition or medium is, it's about the
microbiology and harness the power of that microbiology. Even if you're going with salts,
just try it. Throw in some of that fungi, throw in some of that bacteria, see what happens.
And it only gets better as you complete the soil food web and balance it out.
It's all about the fun experimentation and growth, right? It's always about getting in there and
getting your hands dirty and getting that bacteria in there. I think we get a little
bit too anal with cleanliness sometimes. I think that's been kind of the downfall of man over the
last 150, 200 years is we've gotten too anally clean. We bleach everything, we wash everything,
we're like over the top. But that being said, there's this certain level of clean that you need
to be. But it's interesting to see that development. I talk to a lot of salt growers. I'm
in BC, Canada, and we have Remo, we have Green Planet. We have two of the largest brands in the
world when it comes to bottled salt nutrients and probably covering most of the hobby market in
those two areas. And oftentimes, it's like, oh, yeah, I don't want to have bugs or bacteria.
It's like, yeah, you do. These are good. These are awesome. And they can work with it too. So
it's interesting to see that aspect of people go, oh, I'm going to invite bacteria and I'm going to
cause other issues and challenges. No, I couldn't agree more. The idea isn't just to wipe, to go
nuclear and do scorched earth and wipe everything clean. And really, when I talk to a lot of doctors,
what's amazing to me, London, is when it comes to human health, how the impact of the microbiome
in our guts, the microbiome all over our body, the huge impact that has on health. And more and more,
they're learning that a lot of health issues stem from an imbalance in the microbiome. Well,
where does our microbiome come from? Where does that stem from and start? Where do we build that
up from? It comes from the soil. It comes from traditionally, historically, evolutionarily.
It comes from the vegetables that we pull out of the dirt and consume and touch and get all over us.
And so a lot of these health problems that we never faced as a species before are stemming from
that sterilization, that break in the link specifically between the soil microbiome in
the earth and the soil microbiome in our own guts. Anybody who's out there battling with an auto
immune disease or circadian rhythm issues or cluster headaches, you know what I'm talking about.
The gut microbiome is one of the most critical parts of our human health. And it's so important
that we look after the soil microbiome of our plants because of that fact.
Mike Santos And that's a really new science. That's the
crazy part. My local hospital, our local hospitals here in BC, last year got their first microbiome
gut check technology. The technology to measure these things are crazy. We're talking about the
bacteria and the rhizophagy cycle, which we're going to get into later tonight. One of the complex
points about these things is that these bacteria end up inside cells and inside the plant cell
system. And they're kind of stripped away of a lot of their cell wall. But they're still there.
How do you fucking find bacteria when it doesn't have a cell wall?
Right. So there is a level of bacteria integration into plant and everything structure
that we can't even visibly see it or comprehend. We're still working out the science,
which is pretty cool. But anyways, we got to get back into it with Steve Creations. I'm super
happy to have you along here for a visit, Jordan River, and talk about your event. And I look
forward to having you on the show again. We're going to do a Christmas episode coming up here.
I'm going to try and invite everybody back. So I'd love to have you back.
I should be able to do that. I'll be home here in Oklahoma for Christmas and pretty free. So
thank you. Of course, everybody listening, check out Growcast on any platform. Look for the purple
leaf. And then if you're interested in our classes, growcastpodcast.com slash classes.
We got Hawaii. We got Virginia coming up. We got Boston. We're going to come to Missouri.
Keep an eye out and hope to see you on Growcast podcast. Thank you, London. Thank you, Sativa.
I'll be listening in. Thanks again, Jordan. We appreciate it.
Bye, guys. So that was a fun segue. And I thought it would be a good little dump. So make sure to
go check out his live event that's happening and go over, see what they're we got it. We got to
support the community and people that are making efforts like this to change. But that being said,
Michael, let's get into what were the results? What were the outcomes? What were the big successes
over the last year? You know, like what was what was some of the things you know, you said you had
very resilient plants. One of the things I'm understanding is...
Very resilient plants.
Go ahead.
Very resilient plants, high quality flower for the smokeable market. Our French customer are
always very happy and also the Italian one. And...
Are they selling these smokeable hemp products as like whole buds or milled
flower or pre-rolls? Like what's the...
In my case, I'm more a primary producer, you know, my and my guys that buy the seeds from us,
we produce stock of flower, trimmed and trimmed or machine trimmed for a high quality market.
And then we sell it mostly to chain of shops around Europe. And then they were sold to
smoke, you know, and it's a quite challenged market because we take this small fraction of
the market of people that cannot, that don't want to get high, you know, but could enjoy the flavor
and also the healthy side of a smoke hemp instead of tobacco. Because as we said many times,
we are inside these analogs of tobacco. On the other side, we have good expression, expression of
the... Of the genetic... We have a very good expression of the genetic pool on the CBD
production. So our joint venture for making huge fields for extraction are going good because our
results are quite good. We get easily to 14% of CBD and this is quite interesting. But coming back
to what our friend was saying before, what's the main issue that we see in this changing of climate?
Is the capability of the microbiome inside the soil to adapt to those conditions that are
changing so fast. So our ability is to have a variety that are resilient on a side and on the
other side, we have to improve all the techniques that are already studied in order to maintain our
biome inside the soil and continue having good results. So if on one side we have to make
infrastructure to mitigate the weather changing, on the other side we have to improve agronomical
practice, especially on a large scale for food production because we talk about cannabis because
it's what we love, you know. But all those agronomic possibilities can be applied in all
the chain of production for food and this is something very important. Think about all the
country that need to produce food to sustain themselves, you know. Somehow we are in a richer
condition and we are more inside the production of things that are unnecessary somehow, you know.
Anyway, without losing myself, the cover crops, the things that we are talking also before,
to improve the quantity of the bacteria in the soil and to have the capability to maintain them
in those hard conditions, it's a real challenge because all the theory is very nice, you know,
but are restricted in a small environment, in small spaces, you know. Instead what we are trying
to face and what we have to face in the future is to pass those theories of agronomical practice,
new agronomical practices on a large scale and it's a big challenge because only when you scale
it up you see all the small details that you could do better, where you could improve. Think about
that just the lack of water in the soil, it means that the bacterial activity slow down quite fast,
the enzymatic activity slow down very fast, all the chain of the carbon and the degradation
of the living matter stops fundamentally. So all those things that in a small scale you could
keep control, once you get to the big scale in those conditions the challenge become very
interesting because there are many agronomical practices, the cover crops,
the fact that you don't cut the grass, so many small things, you know, that makes the difference
and this is on the agronomical point of view. From the variety we are very happy about the stability,
all the farmers that work with us could provide the same variety with the same characteristic
and it's something that is quite difficult, it takes time and generation to have
good batches of seeds with quite stable characteristics and
the other point that we are very happy this year is the compliance,
because every year when we give the seeds to the farmer we are always worried about the possibility
that those hemp varieties get hot, you know, and it's something that every time happens
also in a small percentage but every time it does occur. This year we are very proud of the results
that we have got in all those fields from West Virginia to Italy or France or Spain,
many many places in Europe and in the United States, that all the results were compliant and
in some cases we get to very interesting ratio between THC and CBD and we are going to talk about
that more deeper. We have got some very good results with the ratio that I never believed
to get to that point, like 1 to 90 THC CBD, that it means having varieties
under 0.3 also of a good amount and that goes over 14% of CBD and that's something, because
I always thought that was difficult to get over 1 to 30. Instead mostly of our growers 50% of
results have those characteristics, so a ratio between CBD and THC that goes above 1 to 60
and it's something for us, it's a very good result that we never dreamed to get.
But the funny thing, the nice thing is that going on with passion,
this plant every time reward you much more than how you deserve, you know.
That's absolutely true.
And so we are confident about the future and we would love to rise the production for the
extraction uses, because we are started from the analog of tobacco and so the smokeable flowers,
but I think that we are going to end where the majority part of our seeds will be grown for
extraction uses. The potential of customers that could enjoy cannabinoids, especially the
non-psychoactive side or part of the cannabinoid content of cannabis, will be
much more in the future, those potential quantity of customers that could enjoy this.
And so we are going on making tests and making connection around the world, trying to get in
connection with the big company that make the extractions in order to provide those heirloom
variety in all the fields that are possible to be found.
It's challenging to do this thing because there's like often needs when you're trying to
maintain that low THC number and keep everything moving forward, but also maintain the diverse
catalog of stuff. I'd love to know how are extracts looking like in the space of
cannabis? Because right now a big part of the culture that's developing is the glass culture
and hash culture, rosin, and these press creams and such that are just pure
extracted cannabinoids. Is that something that you're seeing as a development? My understanding
is also CBD when it's extracted is a lot texturally different than psychoactive THC
extracts. So are they finding the same success? No, I don't think so. I don't think so because
I'm a lover of THC resin and I'm a second generation growers and I started my mother
in the past and I've been in many places where they make hash traditionally in a very quite good
way. This was my beginning in this industry many years ago. I don't think so because the
characteristics of the resin that you could extract from CBD is quite different.
Most of the time to get something that could be compared to THC resin
it's necessary to make mix and to add things and that's not the kind of idea that I have.
When I talk about extraction I talk about extraction of cannabinoids with CO2 and
full spectrum in order to make oil for patients for a lot of disturbed and diseased
where the population mostly of the time don't know even the possibility to treat themselves
with cannabinoids especially with CBD. So my idea of the future of those variety without THC
is on that line. There are two lines. One is to try to cover tobacco as much as we can.
Unfortunately for that there is also a psychological effect in the sense that
it's not so easy to cover tobacco especially for older generation. For younger generation it's
something that is happening in Europe and we are very glad to have promoted this changing.
I'm pretty sure that also if we are a little bit behind you in terms of regulation and in terms of
freedom it's something that will be real very soon. On the other side there is this market
made of people of patient that have ordinary disturbed. Not only big illness but also small
things that have to be covered and in this application I think that CBD will be grown
in a larger scale in the future in an early future for those kind of purpose.
Anyway as you are saying before it's quite difficult to stay under 0.3.
Cannabis, hemp and cannabis are polymorphic variety that try to get high and to get hot
as we say here because in nature those variety occur at one percent.
Generally even between one to three percent. So if you have open pollination fields of hemp
in a couple of years or in a decades or so you will get to that point. So every time we have to
apply this bottleneck and every time search about our mother plant and try to do things right
and try to do things right and then is not enough. We have to test them in a large scale
to be sure don't have deviation or respect with the previous progeny. So it's quite a difficult
job but I'm quite happy to have got the opportunity to do that because it's a gym.
It's quite difficult because you have to maintain the characteristic of the flower of the terpenes
and you have to keep to push up the CBD level and on the other side you have to keep the THC
very very unfunctional and very very low. As we said before on the THC genes we have
a polymorphic activity of in hemp so every time we are there choosing the more uncomfortable
enzyme to make THC so it's quite a difficult work, need a lot of time. But as I said before it's a
good gym to learn about genetics and to make mistakes because it's from there that you get
to understand better how to work with the cannabis variety in all. So this is just the start
of the journey and we have the time and we have the possibility to go on working on those varieties
and I hope in the future to start working on the one one-to-one THC CBD. We have already
done something this year in the last two years on Afghanistan varieties and
I'm quite happy because at the beginning when we start all of this coming from the THC
background was somehow reductive you know because we cannot do what we really want to do.
Then doing this in the process of doing this I learned so much and I get to the point to
appreciate those variety because I was a heavy smoker in the past and then I understood
why also those non-psychoactive variety are interesting for a smoker as I was
because sometimes you get to a point in your life where you cannot get high or you don't
you don't keep it you know. I get to that point where I get I wasn't able to take THC anymore.
I've got some
problems in my life where it was difficult to deal with and anxiety comes out and THC start
boosting this anxiety quite heavily. So was that the point where I started breathing those variety
because I said okay I need something to smoke that was good that I produced by myself. This
was the early beginning and I start understanding that was possible to have something
that give you benefit in term of health instead of tobacco and other things
and you could enjoy that pleasure because there's nothing worse for a heavy smoker to add to quit
you know because you could have those good varieties you could grow them but you are not
able to assume them anymore but you like the flavor the taste the action of consuming them.
So I decided to start working with those variety and improve them in order to have something for
me at the beginning at the early beginning then it became the work and a part of my work in the
farm and this is very nice because also in all these difficult situation of the rising of the
coast and the difficulty of make other production at the end AMP is giving a help to my company to
stay on the market and continue making investments and being more sustainable in this future.
Also related to the weather changing and so was quite interesting this journey I don't think
that it's ended now I think that we are just at the beginning because I think that mostly of the
application of many of the variety that we are working with we don't know even them yet now
which will be the real application but could could seems to be silly somehow but the preservation
and improvement open you a door that it's incredible because it's so
cannabis it's so plastic you could change it you start from one thing and get to another that it's
so different you know. And the crop time when you're looking at it can be very quick in comparison
to many other things like trees are seven years to like just to find out what the fuck is what's
going on there. It's very long processes and it's actually one that you can get a lot of results
really really quick. Speaking of results we've got some from your farm this year what are we looking
at here? This is a small a small fraction of my farm you could see here all the mother plant
close to some old houses in stone and the other one is the tunnel where I make the seeds
is one of the tunnel that I got to make the seeds and was just to
give you some some idea or where we are working and the way that we are working
in that case those mother plants are made as our friend before was saying from growcast is a mix of
big pot mix of organic soil with microorganism and we could see how it's healthy. In that case
this is a mother plant of one Afghani very very interesting for medical use because it's
two part of CBD and one part of THC or the opposite comes out this possibility in the
batch you know or two part of THC and one part of CBD or the opposite and it's quite interesting
variety. Instead the second picture is just a shot of the the mother plant that are going to be seeded
in the tunnel to avoid other pollen to come in and ruin our breeding process
and was just to to give a contest of where we are working and how we are working. I'm a real
fan of organic agriculture from early the beginning early the beginning and we do that
from long time here in the farm and as agronomist in other farms and it's quite nice because
when you approach it you have this organic farming at the beginning you have those years where you
want to learn things then you get to the level where you understood that you don't have to do
so much in the sense that as for the micro microbiome in the human body and in the
digestive system mostly depend on the nutrient that you are giving that select the bacteria
so mostly of the time are just good agronomical practice we try every time to
lose things to do less instead of doing more but it's just the trend of the of the learning and
and the possibility to and the understanding of of the process
when you have to work with your soil at the beginning if you have a really bad soil
polluted with chemical you have to do many things but mostly of our case in those region of Italy
our soil are good are just abandoned from long time so you have to put them in equilibrium again
this point of equilibrium it's very very important because
that's the point to do what is necessary to maintain the equilibrium
in the soil to get the best quality crop more resilient and and it's something that is all
related is all connected also in the breeding process the breeding process depend on also on
the the quality of the environment that you use to make the breeding process
I think that it's all related
trying to get a reshare screen seems to have decided to cramp out on me for some reason
you're so far away that it doesn't seem to want to
uh listen that's per the usual let's see if this works
huh okay so let's get into a couple questions we'll try that we'll try back again with that
one that's weird yeah it's because you're so far yeah we're streaming we're doing a stream
from around the world okay but yes okay I do have a couple really great questions
so and I think one of them was a good one to start with um is and then we kind of were
kind of leads this sort of question that we were already getting into is donkey uh bong donkey
interesting name appreciate you so appreciate you the advocate of the plant um how long before
cannabis is legal in Italy what's your thoughts there um because I feel like things are starting
to move very quickly in Europe when it comes to this subject I don't know Europe is a strange
place because we don't we are not uh we don't share the same effort we are not like United
States you know every country has history and these ideas and these uh we are not so melted
you know but I think that things will change fast now we have a step back in Italy because we have
this extreme right government and I don't think that things could change so fast eventually this
opportunity of Germany to move things and to start make the difference in Europe could become
uh like an atomic wave for all the cannabis industry we will see we will see I think that
it will occur not so not not in 10 years okay but uh do you know also all those process of uh
civil rights and freedom in my opinion they need also an economical stability
a certain kind of environment you know I think that Europe have a huge challenges in that moment
so we are going to have some sort of step back because in those condition
comes out the conservative side and unfortunately for us our conservative
conservative side is not the same as you have in US and in Canada of course
where also they moved on the same direction of legalization but I think that it will occur
we will see but already at the moment we have a good part of Europe that is approaching this
France, Switzerland, Holland, Czech Republic, Switzerland, Malta, Switzerland is flipping
yes Switzerland from the from yeah yeah Switzerland have flipped many times in a Swiss way
in a Swiss way in the Swiss is there because the Swiss are not are known like I was I was on a
phone I was in a group chat or I was observing a phone call with Robert Clark um talking about uh
you know talking about living in Switzerland in the moment with it with with the hemp
um I actually have it right here where'd it go oh I had it right here the hemp book um that he's
been doing but anyways and he was saying like they're bad bad they're like Japan bad when it
comes to their penalties for cannabis and cannabis stuff so that was an interesting one for me to
hear uh yeah Swiss Swiss are very tough on regulation you cannot go over it's exactly
the opposite of Italy we have very bad law you know but everyone could do whatever they want
because no one check you know instead the Swiss when they check they check there's nothing to say
but at the moment there is freedom to grow free plants each each person that it's already
something you know they don't want to make a total liberalization for what I know
from direct sources because in north of Italy we we share the same land with Swiss we are very close
you know they don't want to reply what happened in 2000 in 2000 there was a sort of
liberalization depenalization in in Swiss and there was people coming from all over Europe
and this is something very interesting because once Germany will open all those coffee shop in
Germany in the next year 2023 the biggest challenge for European regulator is this
that start moving all these people going there you know so already the French that have a huge border
so they have big Schengen
problems on German legalization will start thinking about that maybe it's it will start
with just the possibility to grow free plant each that it's already something you know
it's already something we are we are unlucky to don't have the opportunity to get in the big
business because the German idea is to produce to make coffee shop to do something
also for the economy you know and being the first in Europe as large as Germany is that is the first
economical power of Europe it means something it means something for them in first but it means
something also for us I think that will bust also the South Europe more conservative vision
because once it's all once they get through this you know Europe will be changed
so every time when we see a step back at the end is just the last one you know
little bits at a time right it's such a weird dynamic there
yeah initially we used the same plan but
so here's the next question that I have question for Steve how widespread is the
use of chemical fertilizers in Italy?
It depends on the on the regions for example in my region
it's a it's kind of land of hillside so it's much less used the chemical we have more
land that are abandoned after the industrial revolution so it's all there that need just that
someone come and start to cultivate it there in the flat land we could say that we are
not at the same level of United States but very close we don't have OGM varieties in all of Europe
and now we have to say also this that we save ourselves only inside the European regulation
because the regulator is taking away many chemical things that they will be used for a
long time and now slowly slowly they are taking away everything it's obvious that we are moving
through organic agriculture as a system as a system of production we have to say that Italy
is one of the first country in Europe as a surface of organic agriculture and it's something that
has to be said like in Puglia or in many other Italian regions but we cannot say that we don't
have the problem because it's a lie we have a we have a big problem where we have the industrial
production we could say that is not a large amount of land because Italy is not so suited
to make industrial production we have just quite a few flat land that are exploited in that way
that are the flat land in the north and some in the south but mostly of the time we have
second quality land you know in the sense that are fertile land with a very good weather not so much
water mostly of the time and in ill conditions ill conditions you know so not flat and this make the
change because all the agricultural industrial agriculture need big machine and big tractors
and they need flat land so we could definitely say it's funny because you're like it is like
nuts in the farmland it's very up and down like you can see the rolling hills of Tuscany is not
a joke like they roll yeah like waves so I never really thought of it because you get those huge
long conveyor things those can't those don't work on a hill on a big hill like that that doesn't
function as well no in my area it's even worse because all the coast from Genoa to France
is all in terraces those are land that were stolen from the mountains and in the medieval village and
medieval times and even before they start making terraces with dry stone walls
and in those condition mechanization it's quite it's difficult it's tough it's very expensive
it's meaningless you know so our balance point that is something that I measured also on myself
is that we have a part of tourism because a very beautiful area
close to the sea and the other side that is agriculture but of a quality of a quality
agriculture in my case I make olive oil monocultivar taggiasca and the seeds and the flour
as main productions here you can see some results you could see some flowers in a farm
runs by a French customer very very close to me because we have these funny things
that having a good level of THC in Europe are coming from all over to grow here and I've got
those new customers very very close of me my neighbor I could say that are from France
because all those hills that you see in the back it's already France so we are just the last land
of Italy and on the other side it's already France and those are some results of THC
and CBD ratio very very interesting because here we have an 87.74 that it means that this variety
was under 0.2 and with more than 14 percent of CBD that was something unbelievable for me
until those run of tests because it seems that the ratio were become the double or also triple
respect last year due to the inbreeding techniques and to the
crossing of all the lineage inside the main varieties in the sense that I keep them all
the flavor and all the chemotype separated for many generation of inbreeding inbreeding
and then I start crossing them also to get back a little bit of vigor
and that's the and in in results we have got those incredible ratio
I have to say that not all the batches that we have at this ratio every time we start from a
ratio to 1 to 30 to get to those incredible numbers now we are going to check each single
batch of seeds and to test them in order to purify from the variety and the population
and those incredible varieties that are very suited also for the extraction in that case this
is a strawberry Buddha berry Buddha that's very nice flower I love the color on the pistol
yeah yeah it's very nice variety very dense mostly of the time
when they when my my my customer bought them and grow them it's difficult to believe that
there's not the hc at all you know because I have this intense flower
very well done but it's not something related to my ability you know it's just that I follow the
nature where it decided to carry me and it's something very nice and with those good results
this is a 92 one these are the maritime alps you could see really deep mountain above close to the
sea very similar to Afghanistan all terraces woods on the north side and beautiful crop on the south
side of the hills in that case this is olive groves that was taken away in order to produce
cannabis it's difficult to make a large angle photograph because it's everything it's tiny
one above the other and it's quite difficult to express this environment but I would love to
to meet you here once you get in Italy and I will show you this inside side of maritime alps
that it's like Afghanistan it's close the same there are huge mountain above 2,200 meter high
fresh water from spring very fertile soil we have just to make some adjustment on
on our infrastructure but this is the place to make make ashish is the best place
you have these difference of temperature during the day and the night yeah yeah that's very cool
that's very cool it's a very good place to to grow cannabis it's elected in fact in this in this
region and especially in my area they will they were growing it for centuries to make paper to
make ropes we still have those big buildings made in stone close to the river because they need
water to make the fiber to take away the fiber from the stern and to make the ropes or the the
paper we could definitely say that if those part of the of the Europe
grow fast also on the writing on poetry is due to the presence of cannabis
because they smoke and then they write better poetry but also because they have the paper
they have the paper think about that my grandmother worked in in fields of cannabis
in the south of Italy where he was born and when I told her that was illegal
no he she don't believe in it because they do that all their life and he died a few years ago
few years ago was close to 100 years and every time he was remember me that the farmers during
the evening late evening they are going to smoke it because they are going to grow something that
is between four percent THC and one percent and maybe even more so it's something that was
eradicated from our culture now we are trying to put it back in a modern way this is a flower that
I decide to put in this is the Afghani variety one two two and two to one that I'm going to release
very soon on American market and Italian market I'm very happy about the out crossing
because I'm always one step further in the breeding process so already the last year and
the year before believing in those varieties I start making out crossing to make those mixed
ratio with bulk varieties like this one that I think that is amazing I've got the chance to get
those seeds like the Balkan valley
yeah bulk bulk is a province yeah is is a side on on west on on east of Mazar-e-Sharif
this variety come from there then I decided to cross it to restrain it because there are
inside some jewels like this one for Ashish production but there were also inside
some variety that are not interesting in my opinion some strain that are not interesting
so I was doing that just like a fun but then the results were good so I'm going to release
also those seeds on the website and also with the giving bridge in West Virginia and all my
partner around the world and this is the mixed ratio side then I start making out crossing with
some good variety that I've got from breeder around the world because once you have stability and
stability in the variety is important to reach also the heterotic advantage
so to out cross it in order to join the stability and incorporate different treats
so I decided to start last year with the CBG variety coming from Europe but developed by
Yoko seeds that is a good friend and a good breeder and I'm going to release also through them
through him and through my website many crosses of Enzo Buddha with Laberna or Bernabu
or many different variety that are related to the CBG heirloom races coming from middle Italy
and that's very interesting because in sometimes you have a mixed rates ratio between CBG
and CBD but not so often because those are NF1 so mostly are CBD dominant but
it was a sort of work to include inside those heirloom variety from the north also the genepool
of the variety from the south and the middle of Italy and it's a hunting place it's a perfect
place to hunt it's a middle step if you wanted to build your own variety CBD and CBG one-to-one
or two-to-one or whatever and it's interesting because they carried some new flavor inside
like berry instead of strawberry I would like to have more choices for the customers
are less productive because those CBG are long fiber and so those variety are a little bit
less productive than the original Enzo Buddha but it's nice to have some variety and some
stuff to play with like a lot of people love going through a pack of seeds and having a good amount
of variety in there to hunt through you know like they like seeing different plants especially in
areas where you might have only like I'm only allowed to have four plants you know I like I
want to put down if I'm going to buy a pack what I'm going to afford my one pack of beans for the
year and I'm only able to put down four of them you know I'm only able to get four plants growing
I want all of them to be a little bit different because they don't want to smoke the same thing
all year long it's going to be exhausting absolutely absolutely in fact this was somehow
the idea from the beginning to provide something that is more uh differentiated
with more difference inside the batch that is interesting for professional that needs to hunt
uh some other plants for their facility they need to go with clones it's interesting because
CBG variety are very very low in THC so it's an outcross that take down the THC level even further
respect to the CBD and it's interesting because those CBD CBG come from the same
genepool and could bring back some new flavor inside because this is the the point of the
erosion of the variety when you make those inbreeded lines it's two there is stability
you could make fields and be very happy because everyone is the same than the other very similar
to make clone very very similar on the other side you don't have to lose too many treats
you know you don't have to make an erosion of the genepool so once there is stability it's
necessary to go to the heterotic advantage so use it in outcrossing with different variety
coming from the same genepool more close or more far but always from the same genepool in order to
um goes against this erosion you know that you have done on the first place
making the bottleneck and selection after selection and in breeding techniques in order to have
stability stability stability for big fields on the other side is necessary to open up the variety
to other variety in order to bring up the diversity diversity on the other side
i started doing also a couple of years ago some other crossing with our with my friend
thomas from my alpine i alpine sorry and in that case the idea was to bring in europe
your flavors of hemp that are more related to kush spicy that are very interesting for our market
because our market is a little bit fulfilled about those flavor
of fruit that comes from our genepool so the idea was to start making something different
and something that is more related to
our market that needs something different so i'm going to release many many different crosses
because i feel confident and this is the main point for me i feel confident because the results
are always good at the beginning i start to put put out only for main strain to the market
because i'm always worried about the customer that call me in september october it get off
i have got problems i have to burn the fields that that that is a quite a big problem for us
as a seeds producer instead after all of those years i'm confident and i get to the point where
i want to release more varieties also because i understood that people wants them instead of
keeping them in the fridge and wait to have the time to make the same work that i've done
on the main lines that i'm going that i'm selling now i decide to open those genepool
also to breeders from other countries that want to cross they want to try and also to these
peculiar characterization of our facility around the world where every one of us work in a different
way there is who make the ant by himself and then use the clone so i want to provide the work that
i did in those years in in the wider possibility for the market you know to provide for ourself
for our farm to goes on obviously but also to to give the chance to everyone that is interested in
trying those variety to could choose different flavor different taste and so i'm going to do that
and with my partner obviously also all the the kush line the oz kush line of oku that he provide
me this this summer i cross it all all the 22 variety so we are going to release all of them
together and i think that it's gonna be funny yeah it's gonna be a fun so because there is
there is a lot of things you know i decided to use my facility in a different way i already have a
good stock of the seeds of the main variety that i sell so this year i decide to put much many
different varieties coming from all over the world with this relation with directly with the breeders
around the world that are quite good for example the oz oz kush serie of oku the rnd serie it's
very very good quite stable not in in all the characteristic but on the thc level very very
interesting and very good flavor very good characteristic of the flower very appreciated
in the european market as in the usa market so we are going to make a bridge between us
you know and crossing things together but not in a chunker's way without a sense
but starting with things that have a good work on them a good base of work of restraining the
variety only one kenya type each time and then start to open this gene pool to different
um other genital that could be included inside because most of the stability is due to
the chemotype and the structure and load system so this is quite well done in terms of bulb now we
are we just flip inside different flavors and different flowers on the top of those structures
we will see it's quite a challenge but i'm very happy to have this opportunity to go zone working
because i don't know how is there but here the market is very difficult it's quite difficult
in our case we don't have so many
um cost we are light and we do that for patient for patient and we are having very good results
i have to say that so we are in a good balance but majority part of the market it's difficult
because it's underpaid the quality it's very low and maybe this is the reason why we have
a bit of success
because we do that with love you need that you need yeah there's there's a lot of crap out there
it's it's people people got to experiment that sounds like a lot of fun um and and you know
those beans don't do good at anybody any good no freezer or fridge you know start away you know
they're not they're not growing there um that's for sure so we are getting around about to the end
of the show so how can we support uh sativa creations and where can we find you before we
wrap the show to support us you could find our website sativa creation point it and our instagram
page sativa slash creation slash italia and also sativa creation we have to account we could chat
with us we are very happy to reply to your theme to your thoughts and to your necessity
in order to provide you the best explanation that is possible about our variety it's possible to buy
from our website directly those four main variety and very soon all the others because we are going
to release them each month in order to get to have uh 25 30 variety on the market we have stocks
forever of seeds so we are ready to make the work especially for the next season outdoor season i'm
a lover of outdoor and living soil in that case of the picture that you saw before it's a side of
my land that is very rocky full of rocks so i decided to use big pot in that place but all the
rest is in native soil because it's much better anyway to support us
uh we have to say that our website it's a little bit blocked on transaction with the
credit card but we are we have solved this problem and now will be easier also the approach
to purchase and to buy the seeds for any question i'm always available i follow everything by myself
so the the email address the website the the instagram account it's all related to me and i'm
there for you awesome we actually have italians in the audience today wow we have luca
greetings everybody from sizzling and we actually have a full italian question it's the first
future cannabis completely italian question my guess is it's about certification of
ends of wood that starts from certified variety
we have the freedom to work on variety because we have a permission from the ministry of
um we have we have the permission to work on all the variety in terms of
research okay we are going to certify our first variety this year we are we are already in the
process of doing that with other companies because we don't have the power to do that by ourself
uh we could definitely say that we are more um a research and development side and we
collaborate and cooperate with bigger uh player in order to have all the permissions and start
certifying variety for the moment we have to say that that mostly of the variety that we sell
were sold in europe with this legal trick of the preservation of varieties so cannot be
planted officially because we have to have the certification of the variety first and this is
something that i cannot change in the media in the media immediate time in the sense that
we are doing the process it's quite tough it's quite difficult and require big investors
we are not in the capability to do that alone so we have taken arrangement with bigger
companies in order to have this done i guess that we could have the first batch of certified seeds
in 2024 because take two years we started last year we have this 2023 but it's very complicated
in europe very complicated in fact we were thinking also to make an oscar for united states
because it's quite easier in europe it's very long the process it's very bureaucratical and
very complicated you need to have laws it's very european it's very european so
you know what i need to work i need to work properly i go where there is the market
and i join all the possibility of joint venture also losing a part of myself somehow in order to
get things done properly and it's it's always a challenge but we are going to do this with speed
spirit
we we cannot stop our work on details the work have to goes on because otherwise you
never get to the point of something well done so at the beginning i decide i do the job
no matter what the point is to get results then once the results are done we take the time and
the process to make things right in the european way and obviously we look at market that are less
regulated than us because at the end are the results what's what's matter not the quantity
of money that they could spend in lawyer and those things we were lucky because we were also heard
and listened by a big company that help us because understand that what we are doing was
well done and we need to be covered on the legal side that way we were eaten from
bureaucracy and from all the permission and all the things so every time that you do something
in in a good way somehow you find the solution
no it's obvious that you don't have to stop yourself at the first bureaucratic issue
you always have to keep pushing like in canada here one of the big things that we state is
that i've been pushing for and that people are having you know we're slowly trying to develop
the education on is when it became federally legal to grow cannabis to be to for it to become
an industry here in canada that was a seat at the table to tell them how the fuck we want to build
this industry out that was them going it's legal now you can now tell us how to regulate and the
problem is half these people didn't fucking speak up right like so we have we have certifications
and like and like categories being created in our market that that people aren't putting their
information for they're not complaining enough they're not challenging the government enough
they're not coming together and grouping together and putting all of their voices together enough to
be able to create change um what's what's often is the problem is when you go federally legal
it's like oh my god i've been illegal for so long i'm finally legal let's just keep ourselves
hidden in a way so that people don't think that we're gonna or or inspect us or they're like we
just want to follow the rules right like but but it's not it's not it's not your opportunity to put
your head down and say nothing it's your opportunity to speak up yeah but the rules have to
be reasonable if the if the rules are are unreasonable and unrealistic it's necessary to
put your face and goes on and do things right that it doesn't mean to break laws absolutely
i'm an agronomist i know exactly which is the line where that i cannot cross you know
but at the same time i think that it's necessary to have also a little bit of
um to be resolute you know to go on and do things and also when the regulation starts
to block you on one thing and on the other i cannot do the work 360 degrees if i have to
stop every time for things that have no sense you know have no sense so i'm going to become
owner of variety in the european market it's going to take times time and effort but it will
be something that will happen very fast very very soon but it's just to don't have trouble
you know it's not because i don't think that putting a patent on a variety that belongs to
your country it's something good you know i believe in open source i do this because it's
necessary to open ourself and our research to a bigger industry that obviously need
to have all the paper perfectly done and that's something that have a sense but
there is a period of transition in the sense if the the rules are
are not so reasonable you know and try to stop you there is a period where you start doing things
and where you will achieve the possibility to become legit 100 percent unfortunately for us
here is all a matter of muscles you know it's all designed for big companies
so we are going to become a part a small fraction of a big company because
i want to do this you know i want to go on working with varieties
there's nothing wrong with that man graphics
we had kevin jones last week and he's he's working straight up
right and they're the people that pay there's nothing wrong with working with large corporate
business you need to be able to pay your bills you need to be able to develop your business out
there's nothing wrong with that um just make sure you know who you're getting into bed to beforehand
that's the most important factor right so anyways we we i i do have to cut this because we are
getting to the end of the time and then my wife's like i gotta figure out to to grab a bite to eat
because i'm starving too i haven't had breakfast yet um but we look forward to having you on again
i'll bug you because we're going to probably do a christmas episode invite everybody back for a big
old um general episode we can catch you again on december 3rd on ron harrington's the sift for the
for the next episode yeah which is awesome um and and thanks again for coming i appreciate it thank
you to you thank you to you your this place is the place where we take the opportunity to
explain ourselves to the world of this industry of what we are trying to do so it's always a big
pleasure and we say thank you to you and to all the the people that help you in doing this
because for us it's important to have the possibility to be known everywhere
and and and we we want to help support you so don't forget to check out ctv creations and also
our sponsors uh bavita and wildfire production glass thanks again and i look forward to seeing
you again next week here on
