I grow a lot of pineapple.
The reason why I like the pineapple is because it's antifungal, right?
It's citrus, so it's like, it's antifungal.
But then what I was going to say was, you know...
And do you live in a sort of a moist growing region?
I live on the coast.
Okay.
A Mendocote.
So even my inland property isn't really inland.
It's epic selection.
It makes a ton of smart.
Exactly.
And that breeding came from decades of farmers coming in and saying,
like, hey dude, grow cheese and pineapple.
That's what you're going to...
And now I'm growing a lot of Royal Cush.
And the Royal Cush is actually doing phenomenal in those areas.
Got to watch out for PM.
Oh, dude, that's so funny you said that.
But it is definitely, like, that's our front runner right now in solvent.
Dude, it's funny you said Royal Cush and pineapple, right?
So there's this terpene.
It's a very obscure terpene that you never really see show up as a primary terpene.
It's called osamine.
And it's just an awesome terpene.
It just sounds like it's O-C-I-M-E-N.
We have osamine.
Yeah.
And so osamine you see in, like...
So osamine you see either tracked with myrcene or you see tracked with terpeneline.
So a lot of the Hawaiian sativa strains, there'll be terpeneline and osamine.
But then, like, you have this whole group of the myrcene strains,
like where it's myrcene osamine.
And that's things like papaya and mango, green crack, dream queen, stuff like that.
But then also, you know, you have, you know, in a similar group, you have, like, in the pines,
certain pineapple cushes, you know.
And so in this varietal called Royal Pines, it's a cross of in the pines and Royal Cush.
And we just tested it from a few different places in Mendo
to be osamine dominant with very little myrcene.
And so it's like it's a...
So that, I mean, that's such an exciting area, direction for us where we can help empower breeders and farmers.
Because it's like if you can identify all the archetypes, smells, and the roadmap
and then start working with them to see which ones work better in your climates,
in your appellations, and all this stuff, you know.
And then from that knowledge, you can start creating and crossing obscurities
where you don't see certain terpenes ever show up with each other, you know.
And that's where I feel like the real magic is so much of us bringing back what this plant has to offer.
You know, it's through the empowered farmers and breeders who are, you know, geeked out on this terp subject
who are then, you know, yeah, like identifying, oh shit, osamine, pheno, dominant.
That's, you know, a 0.05% outlier in the 10,000 sample data set.
You know, it's like that's unique, you know.
Yeah, but it's regionally, that's what we're talking about when we're talking about regionally specific breeding too.
It's like, so that Royal Pines is something we're working on as well.
We've got Mean Gene and Ben Anderson from Emerald Family.
Awesome.
They're doing, they're like our Emerald Mountain Farms and that's Mandelbrot's brother.
We saw it, yeah, through the other guys.
So it's Mandelbrot's brother and then we've got Gene and then we've got, so we've got the In the Pines,
we've got Mean Gene's pineapple and we've got this, the RK47, which was Mandel's like star child.
And we have both of those going in because they're A1 number one performers on our specific land.
They were bred, I mean, Gene's pineapple was bred on the north face of the Cotto Mountain in Laytonville, right?
So that's like, you know, so you're getting, it's dark by five and he's low, he's got Yellow River mountain influence.
So it's like, it's cold and it's sort of dark.
Sour Gene, not good there.
Sour Gene, not good.
And then you have, so Gene is a perfect grower, breeder to work with us.
Mandel grew most of his stuff in redwood, duff soil in comp tree.
So like, and in Albion, so we've got comp tree, Albion, so we're like comp tree, Albion is our two.
So it's like, so we're having this, you know, this like cold or low lumen dominant, you know, pineapple,
which becomes susceptible, any other strain would be susceptible to powdery mildew, to bud rot, you have botrytis.
It's surprising the pineapple isn't because it stacks too.
It does. I have, I have, I just harvested a greenhouse before I came here and the, and I did, yeah, I did it the night I was leaving for here.
I harvested an entire greenhouse and I left my wife, my wife, I was like, she was like, who's going to be watching this?
And the pigs and the horses and all this shit. I was like, you know, you got it. You got this.
You're pregnant.
I have so much confidence in you.
I love you.
Dude, you're queen.
She is, she's my empress, man, and she was throwing, she was throwing, she, she was, she, she bugged up and taught me she could do dabs.
So I was like, uh, 715, sweetie. She's like, okay, I'm on my way. And she goes, anyway, so we were, so, so we, you know, we pulled it in.
This is the first greenhouse I've ever pulled in my entire life that had zero mold.
Wow.
Dude, you know how many oscillating bands I had in that greenhouse?
Really?
Oh, that's insane.
Zero mold.
Dude, and that's what's so exciting.
That's all pineapple, that's the thing is it's like that, that, that, that, that.
That's my line.
And it's like, and we, you know.
Because you're not, and you're not, you're not fucking wrestling with nature.
You're like, you know, being humbled by nature and helping and, and being able to connect into it, to find, because I mean it's impossible.
I mean, so many people like almost like kissing the wind,
you know, trying to like put, you know,
all these random things,
cause they want to like think that
that's what's going to be good there.
And then like go through so much suffering and battling
and like, you know.
Well their market says, their market says,
Oh, Hey, their market's like, Oh, Hey, I love sour diesel.
I love OG, I love sour diesel, I love OG,
I love sour diesel, I love OG, I love sour diesel.
It's like, man, sour diesel does not grow everywhere.
So it's like, so like, so like, you know,
Kyle decides like, I'm gonna throw in a bunch of sour D
two miles from the coast.
He's gonna, you know,
he's not gonna have an expression for shit, you know?
And then the other thing is too, is it's like, you know,
we're one rainstorm away from screwing everything up.
And it's not the bud rot that gets us all.
It's the, it's the, it's the, it's a tricone wash.
Right.
It's a tricone wash.
So it's like, we're, I mean, like,
we're like macheting plants before a rainstorm.
Trying to like, you know, we're just like,
get these things.
Emergency harvest.
Running like, no.
You know, but, but it's like, but all delicate.
Like we're rushing to be very delicate, you know?
And, and, you know, and getting every,
cause after, yeah, just spending, you know,
five, six months, you know,
Every day.
In cultivation.
So start early in the morning.
Yep.
Like praying to your plants.
Yeah. It's like, dude, it's such a,
such a like devastating thing.
And dude, when a rain comes
and you're not adequately posted or staked or trellised,
it's like so devastating.
Like, you know, a thousand pound,
or I mean a thousand dollar, like, you know,
arm just broke off.
Oh, I know.
Premature.
It's like, oh.
So basically Appalachian of origin, right?
Is Appalachian of origin.
Okay.
So like the origin of how the plant expressed itself.
Right.
So you have Tewa, which comes in.
And Tewa is love, right?
It's what I said.
It's like, you can't define love.
You can't define Tewa.
You know, layman's definition would be
the epigenetic qualities of the plant coming out
through the environmental impacts.
Expression of the person.
You know, yeah.
Yeah, the environmental impacts, you know.
And so therefore, you know,
plant will express itself fully in what environment?
The truth around Tewa,
and the truth around expression, right,
is in Appalachian, okay?
It's defined in Appalachian of origin.
It has to be the boundary that protects
our ability to grow in soil.
Growing in a smart pot,
growing in an engineered soil in the sun is great.
Good job.
Good job.
You did a good job growing outdoors.
You got all your smart pots and everything.
It's like, you know, way to not be indoors.
You know what I'm saying?
Now, let's talk about how your plant
expresses itself in the soil.
And we're talking about, I mean,
the numbers you get thrown around are about like 75.
Yeah, it gets totally esoteric
because we're talking about the microbiome.
Yeah, we're talking about the full mycelial network
of the entire soil.
The communication with all the plants.
The communication with everything, the entire environment.
They're tapping into each other.
You know what I'm saying?
It's like, it's internet services.
It's like the IG for plants, you know?
And so now we say, okay, great, good job.
Okay, you know, the outdoor farmer
just became a Tewa farmer, right?
He just became an Appalachian farmer, you know?
And that's where you're gonna start
to see the reserve quality.
That's where you're gonna start to see the hand touch.
That's where you're gonna see all the things
that you want to see, right?
Coming from a high quality product,
from a regeneratively farmed product
coming out of that Appalachian system.
The standards are gonna be set.
Like I said, about 25 engineered, 75 native.
That 25 engineered is probably gonna,
most likely gonna have to be engineered
either on site or within the Appalachian.
So it's sharing the same microbiome
that it's inoculated with the same, you know,
fungal spore and content that's native to that region.
So does this mean that people who grow in,
for example, the areas of Humboldt,
where they always say the soil is so clay-like
that I need to use so much potting soil
from whatever vendor, that they probably
won't be able to achieve Appalachian?
Well, they're not educated.
They're not educated on the fact that-
They just work to create that living soil environment.
The mineral content, right?
If you live in Humboldt and you have an area
that says like, oh my God, my clay soil,
like it's impenetrable, it retains all of the moisture.
There's no way, there's no drainage.
I have to use engineered soil.
You know, I call BS because the idea is now
with regenerative farming,
I mean, it's not now with regenerative farming.
Enter back in regenerative farming practices
where engineered soil,
isn't from a bag, right?
It's human touch soil.
Like it's like, you can engineer soil, right?
Like that's what I do.
I engineer soil every day.
I am a soil farmer.
It's my responsibility to my plant,
especially growing an annual
that's not gonna be able to grow year after year,
after year, after year, after year in the same hole.
And I have six months to grow that one plant
or eight months to grow that one plant
that I have to engineer the highest quality
soil derived from my specific tilwa.
It goes into that,
now in conditions, the native soil, right?
It conditions.
And now year after year, after year, after year,
after year, my soil, when you dig your hand in it,
is permeable, right?
I've put the human-
Might not start that way.
It didn't start that way.
So what I say-
But all the microbes, all the living organisms
from the wood chipped kind of tree native to your land,
you know, that degrades over two years
and becomes a super high humic source,
humus source with all these protozoa and native fungus.
And I mean, yeah, and it's constantly feeding organisms
and like all of a sudden it's like, you know,
creating this living entity, you know?
It's like food and then you're feeding it, you know?
And then, and yeah, over time it then is able to become,
like, I mean, there's ways that, you know,
through regenerative farming practices,
you can regenerate inches of topsoil,
you know, the most fertile, rich topsoil, you know?
And it, you know, can reverse the effects
of desertification, you know, when done right.
You know, it brings life back to the soil.
It's, you know, you're living in concert
with the environment and the earth.
I mean, that's it.
And then, and it's, it is necessary
that we use this time and place
to push regenerative farming practices
or to hold space for regenerative farming practices
to the rest of the world, right?
So your point to the humble farmers who make that claim,
that's why I'm using the big smart pots.
Well, here's the deal.
The claim to the guys that are using the big smart pots
is they're lazy, right?
They're lazy in one way because they want
to get the biggest plant, right,
for the least amount of work.
And that's what I mean.
I don't mean that they didn't work to haul their soil in.
Actually, in a lot of ways,
they probably worked a lot harder, you know,
to get all that soil and to build all that infrastructure
to make sure that that plant was able to grow
hella fast and hella short amount of time, right?
Because at the end of the day, we want 15 pounders,
you know, like huge.
My wife thinks I'm an idiot
because I like to grow one pounders.
And I like to grow a lot of them.
I like to grow a lot of one pounders in native soil
because I see highest quality cannabis.
I see the highest quality of my life,
my children's life, my patient's lives,
when they're smoking my cannabis that's grown in my soil.
You know, so it's like, yes, it would be great.
It would be great if somebody wanted to come
and just give me a million bucks.
That'd be awesome.
I'm not saying don't ever give me money.
I'm not in it for the money,
but I'm saying I'm not willing to sacrifice the earth,
you know, to that capacity for money, right?
So to those humble farmers, you're saying you can do it.
Start now, start like building up your,
take your clay soil and basically slowly.
What I say to humble farmers,
if you want to be recognized as Appalachian grown cannabis,
you must grow in soil because the relationship
between soil and sun is where it's at.
Local soil.
Local, no.
Like native soil, like your soil, right?
And sun, right?
So when I say soil, like I don't even add an engineered soil
because like, it's like whatever, like, you know, like.
So like amendments to add into, you know, yeah.
I mean, yeah, so it's like, so it's like, I mean,
I would hope that everyone who has a cannabis farm
has a huge compost pile, right?
Like, I mean, it just makes sense, right?
You're participating in that much agriculture.
Yeah.
You know, a wood, some wood source, you know,
native to your land.
The family tree guys are out on the roads clearing,
you know, PG and E stuff every day out in front of you.
I always grab that stuff.
Trust me, I know.
Like I got a dump site, every one of my farmers, man,
I high five those guys when they stop me on the side of the road
because they all know how to get into my farm.
They all know which gate to go into.
They all know where to dump all of my chippings.
I get them to come by and chip up all of my stuff.
That's amazing.
And I build my piles, boom.
Dude, that's so awesome, man.
I'm running all my piles.
That's like gold, bro.
Yeah, it is like gold.
And that's the thing, and it's like,
I have the wood build down the road
that I get all of my sawdust chips from.
Chip all that in, you know, mix all of that in.
I mean, I have, I mean, I have collard greens with leaves
like that big on them, grown in like pig shit
and redwood duff, you know?
Like, like no bottle of anything, you know?
Just pig shit and redwood duff.
And that's, you know.
And they are raging.
And they are raging, you know?
And then I look at like engineered soil patches
and things of that nature that I'm like,
they're doing all right, you know?
But they didn't homogeneously evolve with my soil, right?
My soil has been active, you know, on that land.
It's a participant in my system, right?
It is, you know, it's in synergy.
There's no one dominant participant, right?
It's all equal parts to make up the whole, right?
So it's like, so that's, that's, that's synergy.
And that's what we're doing.
We're building synergy and the Appalachian system standards
are going to be around synergistic agricultural models,
right?
System regenerative, like that's,
those are going to be the important platforms, you know,
going forward for standards in Appalachian.
Awesome.
And, and, and I'm in that, yeah, that's, that's, that's,
so humble farmers, you can do it, you know?
I mean, maybe you'll reheat.
You're good enough.
Yeah, man, just start, start the path.
You're smart enough, and doggone people like you.
Oh, sure, we can get Al Franken to do that.
Awesome.
Good job, humble farmers.
No, Mendo farmers too.
Yeah.
You know, it's all farmers.
All farmers, yeah, no, do biggest up to the farmers, man.
That's where it, it's where it all comes from.
That's, you know, it's the foundation of everything.
And, and, you know, it's like, I think, yeah,
as long as people focus on just, you know, not, not,
not trying to focus on how big other people are doing
and how big everybody's going,
just focusing on doing what you're doing well
and learning more and more by the day from, you know,
every day is a school day and like, learn from the plant,
learn from the earth.
It's like, if you just potting up in the smart pots
with fucking Pro-Mix and three-part GH-ing it,
it's like, you're almost in a huge way out of touch
with this whole life cycle that the plant can empower you
with and then make you, you know,
the best farmer in the world, you know?
But it's like teaming with microbes
and understanding symbiosis of like this, you know,
the systems approach towards how we grow this plant,
how the plant grows up, you know?
So, I mean, you said it though, big isn't always better.
I mean, you're growing hella leaf,
you're growing hella stalk, you're growing hella,
you know, like these large culverts.
