Ron, we'll let you get started with the nursery model and where you're at today in Mendocino.
Ron Edwards, CK Nursery out of Willits.
We run a nursery, have been in business now.
This is our, we were in the 9.31 program as a nursery cultivator, and last year we switched
over to just strictly a nursery.
It's been a long fight to get the nursery going because it's kind of been an overlooked
part of the regulations.
When the original regulations came out, it looked really good and easy that a nursery
was able to self-transport, and to me that was the attractive side of it.
It's something I've been doing for a long time.
And the state is continuing to refine the nursery regulations as myself, and now there's
a group of about seven of us that are starting to organize, having a little cloud as a nursery
organization to get the state to realize that the needs of a nursery are unique, particularly
even down to the distributor transport license, because we are not transporting the product
when it, or storing it at a very valuable stage.
So we're trying to get the camera requirements and the GPS requirements, all of that removed
because unlike if you are a cultivator, you have your finalized product, you have that
stored at a location, then you move it from that storage location out to market.
Whereas with a nursery, you just are moving that product from your cultivation area to
your vehicle to be delivered on that aspect of it.
There's not a lot of track and trace regulations yet.
The county has track and trace regulations, but as currently the state was proposing that
plants had to be tagged when they were eight inches tall.
But we pointed out to them that if you take the lollipop rock wool cube, you could be
at eight inches and you're not even rooted yet.
So we're just continuing to work on the regulations.
Also as far as farmers markets go, last year we were able to sell a lot of product at farmers
markets.
It was a really good opportunity for us to have direct interaction with customers to
determine their microclimate, whether they're a hoop house, full season, if they were growing
CBD.
So right now we don't have that contact, so we're doing it through social media.
A little more difficult to do it that way, but we're still working through it and hopefully
the county here, we're really pushing for the county to have farmers markets because
to promote an individual farmer or brand, that customer really needs to see you and
talk to you.
And that's how you can build that brand up because as your product goes out, as we have
clones in dispensaries, it's just a customer coming in and buying it and they really don't
get that full understanding of what it is we do.
So we as a nursery are working to get labels that will have more information, QR codes,
so that our customers, when they see the product on the shelf, can get back to us
to know what our clones are like.
And when I say we hope to do that, it's because currently with only seven permitted nurseries,
we're having a hard time keeping up with supplies as cultivation styles have changed.
Going from the 9.31 program to where you had 99 plants to now 10,000 square feet, cultivators
are needing 1,000 clones as opposed to where they were looking for 200 to 300 before.
So it's going to be really important with your nursery to start working with a delivery
schedule so that you can tell your nursery that, hey, I need X number of clones at this
height on this date to make it work better.
We're also learning as nurseries that we will start taking prepayments as well as the dreaded
penalty that you get at your auto mechanic if you don't pick up your product on a certain
time.
It's going to cost you so much more per day.
Because as a nursery operator, we are limited.
We do have 2,200 square feet, but it's really hard because in reality, most of the nurseries
here in Mendocino County are really a cottage nursery as we're looking at the regulations
to expand.
When I look at my business plan as the way the county is currently set without transferability,
there's only so much money I'm willing to put into my business and not knowing that
I can recoup that.
We're also not really clear on what has to be remediated if you shut down your garden.
If I get a cannabis, currently the county, when you get a building permit, is putting
cannabis on that.
So I'm waiting for some transition in that for them to say that it's just a regular greenhouse.
That way it wouldn't be part of any extinguishing that was going on.
That's still not really clear yet.
But as far as the county goes, it's going to be, the nursery is a commitment.
I don't know how long it can be because it's going to change.
No other large-scale agricultural nursery takes such a labor-intense approach to reproduction
that we do.
It really is not efficient when you are having a person take a cut, put it in a cutting,
and take care of all that.
Early on in this process, I was talking to a venture capitalist, and the first thing
he said is, can you have a robot do that?
I think you're going to see in the future will be more of tissue culture, where it'll
actually be up to the cultivator to spend more time, or there'll be some type of intermediate
nursery-type operation to raise that from the little micro-propagation up to what you
want.
Because I do understand, as we're all trying to be more efficient, we'd like somebody else
to spend that time to get that plant up to a good size so that all you as a cultivator
have to do is flower it, but that takes time and money.
So looking at that, I do know that most nursery prices are higher this year because we are
all now starting to have to take into account the license fees, where we're at, and really
looking at it as a business instead of just doing it with volume.
Whereas cultivation, before we just knew that if we sold 10,000 clones, we did good, and
we really weren't looking at our bottom line.
But now we're trying to start to figure out, actually, what is our production cost on that,
so that we can get a good product out to do that.
So that's kind of where nursery's at.
It's one of the most confusing areas when it comes to the regulations, and it's really
a full-time job for me to run the nursery, and really another full-time job just to try
to figure out where the regulations are taking it.
The seed issue, someone was asking about seeds.
That was a struggle to get the county to understand that, no, as a nursery, traditionally, we
didn't sell clones in Mendocino in the wintertime, because it's an outdoor and mixed light area,
where some other areas in the Bay Area, you sell clones year-round.
I saw a dramatic shift in that last year, is that we were selling clones year-round.
We had a little slowdown in December, but we sold at the Emerald Cup, so orders started
picking back up in January, February.
It's a little complicated, because there is no real model.
I have been selling clones for 15 years, and all of my business plans, all of my projections
have been off completely.
Last year, and in previous years, before it had come July, somebody would call and say,
hey, Ron, what do you have?
They'd come over with a truck and a trailer, and I'd be done for the year.
Well, that no longer happens, as we actually sold more clones in August than we did in
July last year.
That's going to be a little transition.
There's going to be, eventually, larger operations that come in that have basic ag and tissue
culture experience.
I feel that we're positioned well, because we have a different type of product.
We have a natural day-length clone that we sell, which we're going to transition to more
of the dispensary, because that's a product that a customer can pick up, put outside,
and they don't have to supplement a light.
It's already UV-hardened off.
That's different than most of the clones that are sold now, that are 18-hour clones, that
you have to supplement the light.
If you're putting it right into light depth, it'll flower right away.
