DNA stands for Don and Erin. My business partner Don. It's me, I'm Erin.
It's a really nice straw for it by the way.
Thank you. You know, we're two guys from California that started this business 16 years ago.
And we've been here at Spanibus for 15 years. Of the 16 years we've been in business.
We love coming to Spain. It's been a big part of our business.
It's one of the bigger shows in Europe. So we love it.
Nice. So you're saying that if you make a comparison between the countries and the different expos that you visit,
here, how's the warmth? The people, it's really open to it? Do you have difference?
I think we look forward to this expo the most. If we could stop every other expo we would just do Spanibus.
Nice. It's a really nice market by the way.
And what makes you different from all these brands around?
Because now you have a lot of competition considering 15 years ago.
There's a few seed companies that have been really doing their breeding.
And there's a lot of seed companies that don't do any work and just buy seeds from another seed company.
And do you have any breeder that you can say I respect them or I would like like...
I'll tell you. I respect Shanti Baba. He's a friend of ours.
You know, Arion from Greenhouse is a friend of ours. Franco is a friend of ours.
We respect all the real seed companies.
I could say there's too many to name that I respect and I approve of their work.
Nice.
I love cannabis. And that's why we're here, standing here, because me and my business partner love weed.
It's been a part of our lives for many years.
Over the past 16 years, we've just seen everything grow, grow, grow, grow, grow, business grow.
The whole plan has grown. The company has grown.
We're living in a dream right now. It's a rocket ride to who all else is going up to space with us.
There's some people who just make seeds and then there's going to be people that use their brand to elevate their company a lot higher.
And what is the customer or the public requesting more about characteristics in your thought, of course?
I think the world is enjoying the fruitier varieties.
They still love the cushes from California, but I say the fruitier varieties, really tasty things.
I mean, this is what we've been breeding for, for the past 16 years, is based on flavor, taste and aroma.
Opening new horizons, right? Like experiences, like it's other kind of tastes.
For example, in Ecuador, like I'm from Ecuador.
That's why if a strain like Tangy comes to Ecuador and grows good in Ecuador, you'd be like, wow.
Everybody in Ecuador would be like, holy shit, this really smells like a fruit.
This is amazing. And the high is very nice too, very up high.
Again, for Dawn and I, it's about smell and taste.
Everything is going to get you high. Some things will get you stoned, but it's all about the way it tastes.
In my honest opinion, taste is the most important thing in cannabis.
Nice. I actually share that because I always choose by smell and imagine which one is going to be tastier.
I personally prefer sweeter one, but also citrus. It depends, but I prefer a sweet flavor.
The smell, the terpenes, play a role in how you feel when you smoke cannabis.
THC has no real feeling. Different terpenes make your high go up, make your high go down,
make you more active, make you more sleepy. Different terpene profiles dictate how the high is.
It's really about the smell and the taste, the terpenes.
Nice. We already know if we want a really nice fruit, we should come to DNA Genetics.
Thank you so much, Ari, for your time. It has been a pleasure. Keep making the change.
Enjoy the rest of the band. It's 2019.
See you next year.
