And we are live good morning everyone welcome another Sunday show with mr. James loud
What's going on?
How's it going everybody? Thanks for coming in and watching us on
Sunday once again, we got a apical biotech coming on here there. I think Joe is coming in to the chat
but I just kind of wanted to
Congratulate the UFC for having one of the greatest events I've seen in a really long time
I know it's kind of off topic for our show, but you know big ups to Nate Diaz even though he lost
He is still the people's champion
friggin amazing fight
Israel just crushed it last night again and
Brandon Moreno
The baby assassin the assassin baby. They got the guy's amazing. It's the first Mexican born UFC champion
So yeah, congratulations to Moreno on that one and then Paul Craig
I don't know if you guys whoever saw it Paul Craig dislocated with an arm bar
dislocated a
Jamaa Hall Hill. Yeah, Jamaa Hall Hill. Good fight, right? Right Joe Joe
yeah, so Joe and I did the jujitsu and martial arts and uh
You know great great event. So how you doing Joe? I'm very well. Sorry
I'm calling in today not on the normal camera. I don't have
Wi-Fi and
Yeah, so I'm just like a picture today
Great amazing fights last night
Moreno's
Grappling finish was great. That arm was gnarly that ref was like pulled for the rest of the evening
Everyone thought it was broken. I was like no, it's just bent wrong, right like
It could have gone both, you know
I've seen it happen where you know, you take someone out for a year. I'm
And it's like six weeks. Oh, yeah
But yeah, I mean that that was gnarly and the way he spun his arm was just flopping. Yeah
It's scary that is what made it really scary
Yeah, I mean, I mean it's exciting to watch but at the same time you're like, oh god that guy could be injured
Oh, well, they'd said every live event
Since we've come back from Kovac or not every but at least the last few there have been bone breaks Chris Weidman shin. Yeah
Yeah, there it's it's a gnarly sport. Yeah, and Nate Diaz doesn't disappoint man
The guy gets all bloody and he he like almost won the fight in the last minute
What comment
He does he just takes it absolutely seriously
He just doesn't give a fuck and that's yeah, you know people say he doesn't take it seriously
He probably could have won the fight. No, those are his tactics
You know
He has those are his his antics his tactics when he goes in to throw people's game off and and he does a really good
Job at it win or lose. He's still the people's champion. I mean the guy got a round of wasp
You know, it's like if anything people want to see him fight more after events like that
So anyway, let's get on to the breeding
I know you guys there's some people that could care less about the UFC and you guys are wanting to hear about
Conversations on genetics and what we're gonna be talking about right now with Joe's hoplate and viroid. Yeah, I'm just again again
I'm here to continue my spiel
Well, let's go back and give a refresher hoplate and viroid
I want to get you know, because there's people that are tuning in for the first time
So let's get like a two or three minute refresher on hoplate and viroid and we'll talk about you know
Where it's at right now sure
Welcome any and all new guests. Thanks for listening. Thanks for your time in here
Yeah, so hoplite and viroid dudding
This has been a problem that's been in the cannabis space easily for the last decade
It really was a big problem on the West Coast based in Cal
You know a lot of California growers were getting hit with it in the middle of the last decade, you know, 14 15 16
Growers all over Humboldt and the Bay Area were you would just randomly lose 10 to maybe 50%
Of a whole grow the flower just never finished
And that's why I learned it learned this name dudding. That's what we first called it
It was just flower that never finished flower. That was functionally not smokable. No trichomes when people did run
You know cannabinoid analysis you would get you know
Way let you know a quarter to less than that of like the expected THC like a 25% THC plant
People to run the analytics and get like 5% in the flower and you're like something's wrong
The smell was wrong. The taste was off
And then you know for years people tried to work on it was as transmittable as a disease was it fungal or whatever and
several groups in
2019
At the same time basically published that this was this plant viroid which is like a virus but it's a plant specific disease
It's a naked RNA circle that encodes no genes
So since there's no protein product
You could normally people when they were hunting for plant viruses if they were at all
They were using these kinds of like antibody based tests
Everything was coming up negative and it was just like this confounding thing for years people were like what's wrong?
There's this disease that's spreading around
So, yeah 2019 we identify it hoplian viroid it can only be identified by PCR testing
PCR testing is this molecular biology technique to detect the presence or absence of like a sequence like a DNA or RNA
sequence
and yeah, so I
Was probably one of the first group or one of you know
Probably three or four groups during eight
2018 that we're doing these testing for these plants and the more we did these testing we found out it was more and more
Systemically spread throughout the cannabis and hemp industries internationally Canada America Mexico South America all over Europe
People once they started looking for it started finding it
And this disease is rapidly spread by tool use not so much bugs
So there's a lot of active research right now about you know, do fungus nap can bug spread it but viroids
Generally are not believed to be heavily spread by bugs and horticulture and agriculture
It's the tools and I've worked with many people
to just work on
implementing tool
Sanitation practices to prevent the spread of this disease
I tell people bleach or this cheap chemical called Virkon s that you could buy online
Are the two most widely used things in horticulture agriculture
Floriculture if you're growing plants and you want to stop the spread of diseases molecular diseases, you need to use these tools
And James again, you've heard me
It's like I'm like it's like sharing needles like if you use one cutter on one two on one plant and you cut the next plant
They now share
everything bacterial infections fungal infections viral infections
And I have watched hop late and viroid come into grows and just spread through tool use
it's always tool use and it spreads through these grows and
It's crazy. Like it's a largely asymptomatic spread. So a majority of plants are asymptomatic and they look fine
The flower is fine the flower smokeable
but when these secondary stressors come out people have massive crop loss and
I haven't heard I mean, yeah
Anecdotally, I've heard all that like, you know massive, you know hundred light rooms losing most of it
But like in my experience with people they like that are trying really hard for healthy plants
They'll lose like 20% of plants randomly, but I hear these horror stories of people losing an entire operation
To dudding and that you know, it terrifies me
Also, yeah
and also I've just worked with so many companies and groups now in my six years in the cannabis space and
Ultimately this is what happens, you know companies they grow flower for money
They don't make enough money because they're flower dudded and then people lose their jobs. So this is ultimately like plant health is
One of these things that I'm this huge proponent of get testing done not just with me but with anyone, you know
trust but verify do two-party verification because
Several companies have been you know, and you don't know if it's accidental or they just slipped right?
But many companies in the last few years that have been distributing plants
Even when they have certain precautions about their like we're testing
most people you do need to probably verify and do get some kind of
Backup testing to know that you're working with really clean stock and even clean stock is this questionable idea because we're still
identifying and discovering
Diseases in cannabis right now for the first time so people are like well
What are we looking for and this and the answer is we're still learning
Because there are more diseases. It's not just hop latent. Viroid hop stunt
Viroid has been discovered in hemp in the Pacific Northwest
lettuce chlorosis virus was discovered in cannabis in Israel and now
People are testing for it in America
In Colorado, they had a really bad hit of
Beat curly top virus and that that virus is spread by
Leafhoppers, so these outdoor grows would have the leafhoppers come in in fact grow
And then it would just kind of like get into genetic storage, basically
The fundamental thing that we get out down to this
I mean, you know getting into breeding is do people are people storing and working with clean stock?
A lot of people that I've met that have successfully had clean operations, you know, they worked from seed
It didn't take in outside genetics cleaned their tools
but even right now today the question of seed transmission is still kind of
Open and some groups have done research
Ollie Beck toss out of Purple City genetics in Oakland has done a lot of testing. He's pioneered
Lamp isothermal testing for hop latent viroid in cannabis and he's been doing studies on
Okay, infected mom take the seed test the seed and he's gotten a lot of like negative seed
So he's like so with him he's we're like, okay, maybe some
Sometimes yes, sometimes no, maybe no and then other people Jeremy Warren at dark heart
They did another seed assay test where they were taking infected plants the seed sowing it and they were finding like this
Small percentage of transmission. So there's still a lot of like very much open questions out there about
Hop latent viroid what is going on? So
It is but let's just there's a couple things in the chat that I saw from mr
Greg McAllister saying clean your tools with alcohol alcohol. No, it doesn't do it as far as for hop latent
Alcohol is great for killing bacteria. I mean alcohol
Dehydrates things right? So when it's a viroid and naked RNA it alcohol doesn't really do anything to it
um, I use alcohol to purify viroids and viroid RNA when I do the PCR testing so
Alcohol so and what's tricky is they're like, oh it probably did help a little right? They were cleaning their tools
They were diluting it, you know watering it down, but it didn't inactivate it. It didn't kill it
So it like I've worked with people that they're like, oh, yeah, we ethanol or you know, we isopropanol tools and it's still a problem
Okay, so so alcohol, you know
It's fun
But but let's jump into the the bleach people are talking about bleach destroying their tools or being bad for time
And it definitely does
Virkon s does as well. So that's what I tell people I was like contact time is important
You need to soak the tools for like 30 seconds, but not much more
so
So what I work when I work with people on implementing these kinds of condition, you know, these kinds of like protocols SOPs
It's usually like a dip cup and it's a two or three tool rotation where one tool is cutting one tool is soaking
But you're moving fast enough so that the soaking tool doesn't sit there for minutes
And sometimes it's just let it soak and then you pull it out sit it down and let it sit while you finish
Working with the first tool. So but it definitely does corrode tools like
Yeah, you don't need to leave them sit
They don't have to sit in there for more than 30 seconds to a minute
And if you do that on that protocol, you're not gonna corrode your tools. Basically, you're not gonna
Take away from you know, as far as being scissors being sharp
You leave them in bleep for too long. It's much different than alcohol
Yeah, so as far as you know, you can leave your stuff in alcohol and it's not gonna affect it
In fact, I think it'll preserve it because it doesn't oxidize it
Yeah, exactly
And I mean so that that always happens when people start implementing these tools someone left their shit in the cup over lunch
I'm gonna come back and you're like, oh no, and then you know, maybe that maybe they resharpen it
Maybe they throw it away depending on how they treat money at that place
But yeah, I'm like that's why I'm like whenever I talk to people about implementing these kinds of like protocols and tools I
Mean, this is jujitsu talk, right? It's simple, but it's not easy
Right, like a lot of these things are it's like you want to implement an idea
But you need to put secondary thought into how does it work in the workflow? How much time what's the rhythm?
How many plants are you gonna process in an hour with that protocol? Does that make sense?
Yep, when somebody's asking about sanity 5.0
I'm re listed and yes, it's on re listed as far as will sanity 5.0 do the job Joe
What's the functional chemical insanity?
Sanity
There's two there's two products that are almost identical
Sanitator and somebody in the chats gonna give me the other one and I can't give it right now
not oxidate but uh, I
Guess we'll have we'll have to get back to you on that one. Yeah, I straight up
Up we lost Joe for a second there
so guys
He's gonna call back in in just a second. I'm sure
Viratol. Yeah, there you go. Viratol and standardator basically the same exact thing as far as the
Ceramic acid. Sorry. I'm oh
It's Peter I was playing with my microscope while you guys were talking all right
So we'll be back shortly. So yeah, so and we'll jump back into that. I mean
As far as I know, you know bleach is actually simple. It's cheap and cost-effective
You're talking about you know, I think I've heard 15% bleach solution. I've heard 10% for 20% I think 15 is fine
That's what I do
pretty simple
That's what I do
Pretty simple and then zero tall. Yes zero tall zero tall and Sanodate are the exact same thing. Correct guys
someone should win a prize for that, but
Anyway, zero tall and Sanodate were great for other things. I'm not sure about hop latent
So we will have Joe back here in a minute
But yeah as far as hop latent is a big issue and I think there's a lot of misinformation and that's misinformation
and that's why we got Joe coming on today to talk about some of that misinformation that's going around and
Yeah
Disposable and throw contaminant away. Yeah, I think if you have disposable tools that you can throw away, that's great
But I mean, you're not gonna want to throw away tools in between every plant that just doesn't make sense
I just cut out. Yeah, you did cut out completely. Were you talking like the last five minutes?
That's good
Like like yes
Yeah, we've been talking about as your tall and Sanodate being the same thing and then let's scroll back
What was the active ingredient? It's an acid
Pyrotic acid so I don't know. I don't know. I don't know either and you would you would know more than me
so dude like
Proxide
So be the gas in peroxide so more than likely not right? I mean
Pro I again, I bet not or I don't know until I see someone successfully use it, right?
and
That's oh that's kind of was I rambling on when I when I get cut out like I'm like I stick to these things that
I know work right and I know they work me personally because I've worked in these programs where
I used it and we successfully
prevented the transmission
reintroduced clean plants and
You know, I've helped several groups now over the years
Really implement and fix these problems
What worries me today is in the last few months
I've seen other people on Instagram and other social media put out their
Solutions right and there's no evidence behind the solution. They just put out this. Hey do this thing
And it'll cure your problem
it'll fix your hop latent thyroid gut and problem and one of them is like a
Xeratol dip and the other one is a nutritional regimen of
feeding them
Damn it. I went looking for it
One of the times when I cut off and I couldn't find it, but really what I'm hopping on today to talk about is
nutritional treatments and
topical treatments
Do not and cannot
cure
viral and viroid plant infections
There is no evidence in the scientific literature or in the people that have put out data
Proving either of these two concepts true or functional in cannabis
today in
2021 the only proven method there's two things you could do with hop latent viroid
Hey, everyone needs to start sterilizing their tools to prevent the spread
We know that right the other thing is if you have infected stock
You got to get rid of it and you need to replace it with either
Seed grown stock that's been tested or mere stem derived tissue culture
That's been tested and when people started saying this a few years ago mere stem
Culture will can cure hop latent viroid and you can you know recover clean plants
Naturally people called bullshit and they were like no that you know
We don't know if that infection can be cured that way
It was only after like people doing it for over a year
Showing that you can start from seed you can do meristem culture and you can get these plants that
Test negative time after time after time and one negative test is never enough
so and I was one of these groups with the meristem therapy my work at dark heart and then after I left there like
Weak, you know that these groups can take infected stock and release it back later
You know, sometimes six months sometimes a year
You know, you can do that
But as far as these dips and the treatments all I'm seeing really are commercials
for buying shit and
Honestly, I think a lot of these groups they're saying this so that they could say that they're doing something while they're infected
And it's just like kind of PR damage control
Which is expensive right if you have an infected grow like you have to churn and burn
Right, you need to move it all out either into the garbage or flower and save what you can't
but I think a lot of people are hanging on to sick populations of plants and
for whatever reasons right like
It is a lot of reasons, you know what I mean?
And I get it to a degree
you know as far as like if you have that winner and
You have that one that's made you a lot of money or one that potentially could make you a lot of money
You don't want to just get rid of it for it or your girl is designed for it or your name is based on that
Particular cultivar, you know, there's lots of people like that and it's infected. What do you do?
You know, it's like there's obviously there's solutions but a lot of people are like I got to hold on to it
I'm not gonna let it go and and
You know as long as you're aware of what it can do to everything else. I
Understand it, but it's it's like we have to move past these things, especially at scale, you know
You know if you're a homegrower, it's one thing. Yeah, but if you're growing at scale or you're a nursery
That's selling those clones. That's a fucking huge problem
Yeah
And I tell everyone and you know, and I've worked with nurseries like
And I'm like listen if I'm if Joe if Joe is selling you clean plants do me a favor do yourself a favor
Go find someone I do not know and send them some samples and test this shit, right like double tap verification
trust with verify
It's just so much of this industry is trust right if you're a nursery your customers like depend on you
And everyone growing flower the flowering is the hardest part of this game, right?
That's the risk these people like I grew up
I'm from families of farmers when you tell a farmer that they might lose 30% of their crop. That's terrifying
Sure margins are small on farming and we farmers now, right?
Like yeah, I know my picture says trappers and we all just you know, like I've done a house or two
But we are farmers. This is agriculture
and when I talk to and you know people that grow beer people that grow wine the
Quality of this it's garbage in garbage out the starting material and that's what I think my responsibility is is working as a germplasm
Provider in the tissue culture space is I need to give people the best possible
Chance for them to grow fire and if it's if it's infected with shit, they're handicapped
And yeah, and what's really weird is is like I've watched this happen
Like I entered the space in 2016 where there was no real information about viral and molecular diseases in
Cannabis that was functional there were studies
In the 70s of some forced inoculation, but no one was tracking like what viruses were in the cannabis space
You know, I mean James, you know this I talked with you in the hobby like this all popped off
Damn it during Trump, but I'm sure but you know around that
2016-17
That's really when people were going to the shows people were going to MJ bizcon people were going to these research conferences
And they're like there's this
Viral disease, you know there there's this some invisible disease running around cannabis
So just real quick Jill. Let's talk about germplasm and
For the people that don't know germplasm what a germplasm is germplasm is kind of like your think about it
Is like your eaves for like your breeding programs like it's your genetic stock
There's two forms of germplasm storage that's practiced in
agriculture nowadays seed banks and tissue tissue culture
repositories and this is kind of where people store, you know, like
my
You know my my green monster number
34 right like just whatever my favorite strain is my favorite cultivar variety
For those people that get triggered by the word strain
and
Yeah
So, you know lots of you know, people have seed collection
I mean jamming eating James and I got into this cannabis space during this time when people were building tissue culture banks
And I've worked yeah, I've worked with several big groups now, you know hundred two hundred plus strains
You know a single room like or or you know, like I mean you've like
Me and Justin at apical, you know, we have tents full, you know
Look at my instagram at Joe s remind, you know, we have these tents that have literally
Hundreds of different varieties and test tubes and you can't beat that kind of genetic storage
Right or space, right?
There debates or I mean there's the you know, there's cases for seed storage versus TC storage
I just love that whole concept of I have a plant in a tube. I know exactly what she is
I know exactly how she should behave
and I just have her in perpetuity and
If I really need to I can make a couple hundred for to pull out of tissue culture to start making you know
Thousands tens of thousands of well and the thing is is so we're talking now tissue culture you can capture the expression typically
You know, and it's it's not a hundred percent guaranteed, but you can capture that expression now if we're talking about seeds
You're not guaranteed to get an OG cush seed. That's a true OG cush
That you're gonna find that exact expression and that's why
Clonal propagation is so much better than seed in that regard, you know, we're talking about the winner
I think TH said if it's a winner that didn't show it's a winner
Result anymore. It'd be like if you kept a human runner and still wanted to perform at age 100 and their immunity
Didn't and he can't run. Well, the thing is is like
With hoplite and it's different too because with hoplite and the plant may express it
It may not half of it may express half may not
So it's a little bit trickier with hoplite and then hoplite and something that you can move past right if you clean it properly
So yeah
That's the thing. I mean I've met people that have read out of hoplite and byrode. Yeah, or Marist em did and
But even nowadays I tell people like you said if you have the one yes, there's always arguments
I work, you know people that they're like, oh, I'm a second-generation grower and this is my family's I'm like sure
That's but a lot of people are like, oh, I just have some other whatever last year's popular strain was this cross. I'm like
Maybe you can find a clean cut of it somewhere else. I mean now
Sorry, there's a helicopter outside
Now that you have companies like apical where we have 300 plus strains verified clean
You know, sometimes it beats the year labor of cleaning up your strain that might exist somewhere else. Totally
Well, you know and it's like this is another thing just because you have a seat a wedding cake doesn't mean you have wedding cake
Just og all these things
Seeds are great. But as far as phenotypical expression, that's a whole different story. And so that's why tissue culture has become so valuable guys
Yeah
Every seed is a product of meiosis, you know, that's the whole point of sexual reproduction and like scrant
You know making new variation. So it's like when we get these seeds, I mean, you're you know, what's up?
It's like it's like siblings, right? How sure are you gonna be? This seed is gonna be identical from this seed
I mean, is this it is it weird for me to say it's almost like repheno hunting. Yeah
well
And the more diverse genetics you have as far as like we're talking about homozygous and heterozygous
Something that's extremely heterozygous. It's gonna be a lot harder to find that winner than something that's more homozygous
So that's Mendel's peas, right?
Just very straightforward, you know
So something like blue dream guys you want to make blue dream seeds you're gonna find a blue dream, you know
Something that distinctly resembles blue dream if not identical because it's so stable
But now something, you know, I think Oh Jeechus an example like that one
We didn't have seeds for ever of OG and the world is going back to OG Kush guys. Don't get it wrong
It never left baby it never left and it's coming back in a hard way I guarantee it
So, yeah, let's see what you got to go soon
So what else did you want to talk about before we go or before you go things man?
Trust me verify people were DMing me like crazy when these two things came out and just over and over and over
I'm like, no, you cannot cure viral infections by dipping it in xeratol
No
You can't cure hop latent viroid by just upping this feed or adding this one
Thing and guess what if that shit is true
I'm fascinated by it but show me the data like extreme claims require extreme evidence and
Nothing, I've ever done in cannabis
I haven't had like data to back that shit up pictures of plants population numbers
negative hop latent viroid tests
So you just kind of got asked people like come correct
They're like that's great. If you develop this new technology in the space, it desperately is needed. It's amazing. You're smart beautiful funny
But you better show me proof and I mean negative tests, right?
Right, like gotta show the negative tests. So let's talk about the handheld device real quick. Oh, yeah
So this company called Agdia sells a handheld machine. It's
$10,000 15 and it huh? It's about 15 now. It's it's it's like 12 when you buy all the kits, right?
But
Because you buy this machine and you buy these kits and it's like $13 or reaction cost and the machine it's like PCR
But not it's this other new technology called RPA
replicative polymerase assay
RPA and this is called an isothermal
molecular diagnostic tool
Isothermal means it all happens at one temperature
So you basically get up Lee get some plant material put it in this sample prep bag make some green goop
Put it in a tube put in a pellet and some buffer and then you stick it in the machine
It's all very technical. This molecular biology is very technical
You take the green goop and you put it with the pellet and stick in the machine and then it gives you this plus-minus
present or absent
Assay for hop latent viroid
And you can buy other kits for other diseases
What these tests for this handheld machine are great for are for confirmation testing of yes
You are infected. This is here. That's great. That's information that you can act on
one criticism of these things are it's it's not as sensitive as
traditional PCR testing with the big benchtop machine
And also these this RPA assay for Agda. It's only a single. Yes
No, right. So a no might mean your sample was just fucked. So
PCR testing you can do this thing called multiplex. We're in a single tube
You can have what's called an internal control for a plant gene. So that's how I do it
That's how you know, that's how a lot of molecular diagnostics do this for other disease diseases
You're like was there something in my sample at all? Yes, great. That means the sample was good
We got a good RNA. We made it into cDNA and the PCR worked now now we can ask our real question
Which is is the virus or viroid there? Yes. No, so
Again, like all these assays you got to think about the context that you do the experiment
You need to think about how sampling worked
Like you said James parts of plants can be positive parts of plants could be negative
That was a crazy thing in the early days of hop latent viroid
Testing when people would be like what the fuck man this plant is testing both positive and negative
Differently over time what's going on and you're like, oh, it's sampling, right?
So there are sampling issues you always are. So there's the there are three main assays for testing
Hop latent viroid one is traditional PCR. I do this a lot of groups do this
I do this dark heart does this CSP labs does this a
L&L crop solutions does this it's all PCR testing a new thing
All ebektas does this it's called lamp lamp. Is this damn it loop?
Something mediated something it basically it makes this weird circle
It uses a bunch of primers and you can detect things again in an ice in an isothermal way
The third one is this Agda machine RPA. It's another isothermal reaction
PCR is three different technology temperatures. It goes hot cool. It goes hot cold cool
Carrie Mullis
Got a you know Nobel Prize. He's from UC Berkeley
He thought about this on an LSD trip driving to Tahoe and it's this iterative process of you change the temperature
over and over again to
Basically, you know just to amplify this thing
He thought about it because he was a biologist that learned iterative processes from computer programming
So it's this beautiful idea of like when two different fields computer programming and molecular biology touched
They had idea sex people had new completely different approaches to science and you know, the guy won the Nobel Prize
But yeah, so my cotton those are the three main assays, right? None of them are perfect, right?
They all have many pros and some cons
weaknesses
No single test is enough. You need to like, you know get repeatedly tested anyone that was you know
Single in college understands what I'm talking about once isn't enough
Anyways, well, yeah, so you need to get your plants
So the USDA if they have a we have a national clean plant network of many important crops hops is one of them
They're up in the Pacific Northwest University of Washington my place UC Davis we're all about like roses
nuts and strawberries strawberries foundation plant services at Davis is all about that strawberry game what they you know
Riversides is all about citrus and I worked with a PhD from Riverside for a while and you know working with these people
They're like for you to identify a clean elite
Stock plant germplasm population that bitch needs to test negative three times over a year
And it just needs to write because I've done this plenty of times. We got to go
I'll clean up a plant and it'll test negative for six months and then turn positive
Because the titer was so low that it took a while for it to get positive
BT dubs my big sister just told me to hurry the fuck up. I got to go
So I'm at a graduation party y'all
Last
Outros any crazy thing is the comments I need to address
Well, you're coming on the show again in a few weeks when we're doing so we're doing from the new studio
I'm gonna have you come down or come up depending on where you're at. But yeah, so we can continue this conversation
Oh
Yeah, people go to the go to the sub go to the MMA subreddit
They got all the clips of the finishes from last night last night's fights were fire man. They were just great stuff
All right. I'll talk to y'all later. Thanks everyone for your time. Peace
Have a good one. Thank you very much
Okay, guys we got Peter what are you doing Peter?
Still on the I I
My neighbor cut down a tree and mulch the tree and then I put the wood chips in a
big like 30 gallon plastic
Container and sealed it for like two weeks. So it got completely
Anaerobic and then I dumped all the water out and so I was looking
Under the microscope at the water as like it becomes aerobic again
Because supposedly like the mycelium supposed to hit the wood chips hard and
do amazing things but
So anyway, that's fun
Random thing I was doing while you guys were talking
Nice, you're multitasking. I love it. Yeah, and then the other one is
Looking at some
Looking at some
Go ahead. Oh, yeah. So someone put zero tall and sanity in the chat zero tall insanity, you know
I've used zero tall insanity for
sanitizing seeds
But uh, you know, I've since switched to hydrogen peroxide
I do six to one ratio hundred peroxides cheap. You just get the stuff from your grocery store or your CVS
And you do six to one so it's like a 17 point whatever percent
But yeah, it's real real easy to do and then you can do as short as I think four hours is a you know
Four hours plus I do 24
But you know and that helps sterilize the outside of the seeds
There's people that disagree that you shouldn't that there's okay, you know, but I feel
If you're using other people's seeds and you don't have a lot of seeds
I feel if you're using other people's seeds and you don't know where they came from. It's a good idea to
To basically sterilize the the surface of the seed
so
that being said
Anyway Peter
How are you doing this weekend?
I'm good. I got a kindergarten graduation party to go to so this is someone was commenting on
Gemma's that's actually that's an elephant
some water in the background and a small elephant because I think those are flowers or it's
Or she's mastered perspective and the elephant is way
Now that wouldn't make any sense that it's way in front of the flowers. Anyway
flowers elephants and I can't really see it but
water
Nice
Yeah, so did you see that? I was I was wondering so this is actually on my shard
and
I was thinking that it's
Some sort of powdery mildew
Looks pretty PM ish. Yeah
That love powdery mildew. So I started hitting it with some baking soda and water
Sure, I mean that works. All right, you know
microthiol disperse
swear by that stuff guys, it's spelled
D micro th y o l d i s p e r s s
It's not spelled like disperse would be but it's amazing stuff for treating russet mites
And for treating powdery mildew swear by that stuff
Yes, PM everywhere in LA right now sitting my tomatoes
Yeah, I've been hitting the powder doughnuts that's totally possible
So guys you got
Questions, let's ask some questions. You know, we got
Daggett on love go ahead
Daggett I love we got seeds and I got we're gonna get some more seeds for you Peter soon
But uh, yeah seeds here now dagger. Love
So a while ago Johnny summertime asked how important is it to keep a mother to back cross to I want to delete this thing
But holding on for the back crossing thing. How important is the back cross?
How important is the back cross it just depends on
How important is it to you? Do you think it's an amazing variety of seeds?
I mean, I think it's a great variety of seeds. I mean, I think it's a great variety of seeds
How important is it to you? Do you think it's an amazing variety to
You know good breed towards so if you're back crossing on if you're making a you're inbreeding something that you're back crossing towards one
Of the parents is that parent worth keeping to back cross and then then get rid of it
I mean, it's it's so individual and what you're trying to do what your goals are
Are you trying to have something homozygous because if you're trying to create something that you know, if you're breeding towards
The back cross can be interesting because that means you're breeding towards that specific goal
if you're breeding an inbred line, what you're doing is you're taking each generation and
Trying to find something that replicates or is similar to the original breeding goal
Whatever you have in that f1. So when you have an f2 you're breeding towards that s2 or whatever you're doing if you're selfing
You know you're breeding towards a specific goal
So each time you're trying to find something that fits into that
But you know a lot of times you might find something that's different or even better, you know, that's good
Sometimes you'll find multiple things and if you have big enough space you can breed towards multiple things within a generation like that
So it's it's very individual on what you're trying to do your breeding goals
And besides your breeding goals, you know, how much space do you have? I think that's another thing
Do you have a lot of space? Do you have a whole friggin?
You know nursery that you can store stuff in for a rainy day
So those things are great
You know as you have scale then it really opens up opportunities to do stuff that normally you couldn't do in your house
So someone says if a plant was put out too early flowering May 1st ish and it's still flower stacking
Is there still a chance of will revenge dude? You can revenge a plant that's finished
You can absolutely I mean, I you know, it's a sativa. Yeah, you can definitely put that under 24 hours of light
you know, I think for for I
Do like 24 hours of light for about two weeks and then I go back to 20 and 4
But 24 hours will you know kick-start it and it could take six weeks. It could take six months
It just depends on that revenge
you know and
Let's see who was the one that showed it to me it was a
sunny chiba Shane sunny chiba and Ray from homegrown natural wonders is the
Revenge King that dude crushes the revenge. He does amazing work
You know, I wasn't a big fan of revenge till I met him at Harborside
short Brooks gene finder og was working with Ray over at Harborside and they were doing huge
Huge huge pheno hunts and within those huge pheno hunts. They were not storing plants
they were revegging the winners and
so
You know, you can argue whether that's good or bad, but it's scale. That's really the only option you have
You're not gonna take a copy of 20,000 different plants and hold them in your in your nursery. That just doesn't make sense
so
No water during revenge. Did you say I I think you have a boy
Yeah, is that normal start to seed yeah, it's more than likely that you got a male dude
You know, I mean there's a I don't mean to laugh because these are all learning experiences that we have, you know, I think
And that's the first thing people assume
When they have a plant that's popping balls is that it's making seeds. Those are pollen sacks, dude
So you got to get those out of your garden unless you want to make seeds because that's what you're gonna be doing
Again I don't mean to laugh but
It could also be a herm
Just quickly on the powdery mildew front because there were a whole bunch of answer or responses
And let me just
But be alright so so basically
St. Bernard's observation booth talked about jadem sulfur foliar application will knock back a PM outbreak very fast
University of cannabology
Saskatoon copper sulfate before the PM gets worse
Greg McAllister said fight PM with more airflow and silica
so
Those are all great things, you know, and then somebody asked if PM is systemic and no it is not systemic
I don't believe you know, we were always told the PM was systemic. I was also told for the longest time
Systemic I was also told for the longest time
We always thought avid was systemic and avid is a trans laminate that actually just the area you spray
I'm not saying to use avid but you know
Those are the the things that we were told when we were younger is that a powdery mildew is systemic and it's not systemic
But it does latch on and it is a big pain in the ass
Especially if you're in flower because you don't want to be praying unless you're making seeds
You don't want to be spring sulfur on your plants
Even if it's armory certified sulfur is terrible
Yeah, I don't know if you I don't have you fit if you saw this part of that same question
But uh, yeah, you gotta wait till the end of the fall
Yeah, I mean is it is it planted in the ground if it's not I mean you can you can have it finished and then
You can have it revenge. You can basically strip a lot of the butt off and
Let it revenge I think there's a lot of stuff
Online you can find on revegging and I mean, yeah, wait, wait till it's finished and then revenge it you should be okay
If it's in the ground, you know, I would say no
Don't don't be revenge stuff and got revenge stuff that's in pots that you can move
under controlled lights
Plant therapy is the shit. Somebody said Lost Coast plant therapy. Yes. I like plant therapy. I think dr. Zimes
Some people like dr. Zim some people apparently don't do you see that question?
Sulfur is terrible. You don't want to be smoking sulfur
For one thing I think in veg sulfur is great if you're doing for preventative
But it's gonna affect I mean you you as far as for extract even I won't even run extract with my seeds
But if I'm doing a seed run and I have all this biomass at then if I've sprayed sulfur
Because I'm trying to control something like PM I'm not gonna run extract your extract tastes like shit
First of all plus it's bad for you. You shouldn't be smoking sulfur
So same thing plant therapy makes your weed tastes like shit if you have to spray it in flour, but it does work
So the less you less is more. I mean if you don't have to spray it all that's the best
What about sulfur dipping clones to prevent giving anyone clones with bugs, etc. I think I
Think that's good
I think you can you can dip them you can spray them. I think I p.m. Just a good IPM regimen is good
But uh, you know, I mean
Integrated pest management is everything
So Epson salt foliar
Epson salt foliar contains mag but also sulfur. I've never used it Chad
We got to get Chad on the show. We've been talking about it for a while. He's yeah
He's a big in the chat and he's been on he's on another show with you as well, right
He does he has his very own show. Yes, the
We even have yes there there he is right there
Amazing Chad I
Was gonna say if I didn't have the kindergarten end of your party I'd say Chad come on right now, but uh
Yeah
We got a short show and you know
I'm just gonna tell you we got my place in Oakland that we've been building out and we've been trying to get right we got
The Joe Rogan experience for you guys coming very shortly
But right now we're trying to dampen the sound because there's a huge echo and it sounds terrible
And I don't want to have my headphones. We have an actual microphone to talk into
We got some amazing guests coming on for the first week, and I'm actually gonna be doing multiple shows
I'm gonna be doing one with Marlon. So we'll be recording some cool stuff
You know my friend Marlon Asher and business partner from gunja farmer seed company
We got crazy things in store for you guys in the near future
Joe Rogan turps smells like BO that sounds amazing guys Jesus
James is on JRE. No James is not on JRE
Although my studio has the change. Thank you for the James Rogan experience. We're going for that for the equipment
So we have the full on X. We're gonna have the experience without the Joe Rogan
That's that's the idea, but it's gonna be lots of fun. So we're gonna get a lot of weed weed people cannabis people
Will have breeders in there. I want to talk about genetics and
You know people in the cannabis space a lot of fun and we're gonna shift
It's gonna be a little bit different format, but I think you guys are gonna really enjoy it
So
Let's see, is there any other questions guys
This will smoke
We're gonna do a what shit Cheddar, but cheddar Bob asked earlier about
So so many feminized seeds in the market
So what do you say talk about the industry going fem sees we're gonna lose some stuff that way now we're not gonna I mean
The whole industry is not going I would say
That at scale
Feminized seeds are the only thing that works. You're not gonna be doing regular seeds at scale. Nobody's gonna do that
As far as breeders and people wanting feminized seeds. I feel like you're getting
You know
Good quality seeds with them and I seeds these days, but you know, you gotta know your breeders
As far as reg seeds going away completely. I'm not stopping to make yeah, just fans
Although I mostly sell fans. I also make regs. I do interesting brought projects with both
So, yeah, I think I think for that you see this one
I think Joe's gonna be back on I think you said
I don't believe they can transmit through pollen
Or if they do transmit into the seeds, it's it's unlikely
You know, I'd love to get purple city genetics on here to talk more because he's been doing some amazing stuff as far as
Testing so hopefully we'll get him on here. He's also in Oakland. So
I'm gonna go ahead and get him on here. I think he's gonna be back on
I think he's gonna be back on I think he's gonna be back on
So hopefully we'll get him on here he's also in Oakland so we will get
You know, like I said, we're gonna have awesome guests on in the near future. It's only gonna get better
I really appreciate everybody tuning in
so
Yeah, someone said loud seeds are all sold out yeah because loud seeds doesn't make seeds anymore
James loud
Genetics is gonna come out with a line later this year
But right now I have ganja farmer seed company and I have loud canna genetics with my partners up in Washington
Kyle and Tim you guys have seen them on the show. Those guys are freaking amazing
Tim and I have very similar views on
Cultivars and what's good and what's not good Kyle is also you know same same mindset and he's an amazing
cultivator the guy just crushes
So yeah big ups to canna organics up in Washington love those guys they're producing
ultra fire like not just fire but like ultra friggin fire and
You know if you're in Washington and you haven't tried their stuff, I don't know what you're doing but
Someone says hash church banned me for a funny. Yeah, that'll happen
So guys any chance we can see some shots from your grows James
Yeah, I mean if you look on Instagram, usually I'm posting some interesting stuff my mails
You know, I try to post a lot of stuff mails. So you follow my Instagram James loud
You know, I don't know a lot of guys pushing I'd love it if you guys are breathing if you're posting pictures of your mails
That would be you know, I think I think the world needs more pictures of males
But yeah, I you know seed production I do I got I got
You guys want seeds we got
Plenty of seeds
Do you see that
Some educational walkthroughs. Yeah, so this is kind of some of the stuff we're looking at doing in the very near future
educational walks through you know
Joe is actually gonna be helping me with some of the stuff on my breeding book so we can get it out quicker
It's been in the works for a long time. There's some stuff. I
Not a liberty to talk about right now
But you guys they'll have the breeding book very soon
And we're also doing a you know a video version of a lot of stuff. So a lot of those can definitely break windows
That's awesome. Can see gardens
Slur a lot of you know, I'm not a big fan of the slur a lot of the
Can see gardens
Slur a lot of you know, there's a lot of I think it's sold out everywhere
So if you didn't get it, good luck. Maybe you can find a cut from somebody
That's because the speaker only had like 30 minutes so I
Don't know that was a yeah directed at us but
Yeah, I mean I think with with Joe he he's all about trying to get you guys information he's a great guy
He's a great resource
Yeah, they do clean genetics, but he's trying to get out the truth. He's all about the truth
Taking care of your boys
We need more info on how to take care of male plants
You know, I think a lot of times I like keeping my males under 24 hours of light because sometimes they tend to
Flower even at veg after a while. It just depends on the variety. Some of them are fine at that 20 and
Four hours of darkness
But uh, you know, I think if you're talking about long-term preservation
Collecting pollen is a whole nother thing. We're gonna go into that on one of the future shows
I think I've talked about it many times in the past actually
But we'll go into detail in a couple weeks when I got some males that are ready
Mystery machine. That's another one. We still have more mystery machine seeds. I've never sold it. I've only given it out
Peter has given out a bunch of them and I've given and I need some more of you have them nice
Yeah, it's the dead people love that juicy fruit turp and that's one of the beauties
Keeping males sucks. Well, it's just another thing that you have to get used to doing
it's like keeping females sucks if you're just doing it for the first time you follow a
Specific regimen and you stick to it. You can do anything
But I just like the human body plants love repetition
They love getting the same thing, especially yeah, you feed them the same thing consistently
If you're consistent you get consistent results whether it's with your body whether it's with plants
All living things for the most part like consistency including fucking viruses. So TH I did not realize that this was a question
Ammonium chloride
Hmm it is a question. It doesn't look like a question to me. I mean, maybe that's what's in we were talking about
xeratol
But anyway guys, it's 1201 Peter's ready to get out and have a good day
Yeah, any weird male? I've seen all kinds of weird fucking males. I've seen you know
from variegated
Leaf patterns to males that shoot out weird friggin
They look like clones even though they're from seed
I've seen the branching get all crazy on stuff before
Which is definitely a mutation because typically if you grow from seed, you'll notice the branching
Is is very identical whereas from clone?
You're looking at stuff that shoots off in every direction
Those are ingredients and okay cool
Position 20 never heard of it
CS or STS for making fem seeds
Any weird males you've seen? Yeah, that's what I was talking about that exact post was the yeah
I've seen all kinds of weird males
I've seen males that don't fucking drop pollen before that look and smell amazing
And then when he comes to dump pollen you like flick it and like where's the fucking pollen?
It's pollen sacks don't want to open up. I've seen and I've seen it more with reversals, but also
So you go through enough males you're gonna find all kinds of interesting stuff, how can I get mystery machine?
You can text Peter if you want to buy a pack of mystery machine
But technically just order a pack of my seeds and they're free
Just put in the note that you specifically would like mystery machine
Exactly. I kind of rotate around the freebies from different people
So and then somebody asked a question about colloidal seeds
I'm not sure if that's a good question, but I'm not sure if that's a good question
So and then somebody asked a question about colloidal silver or STS and my thought is
Colloidal silver if you're using true colloidal silver not ionic silver
Which I think a lot of people don't even know that they're making or using ionic silver that has you know
15% of true colloidal silver
I
Feel like you know that that's that's typically the ratio with clay silver if you're using
Nano-silver or true colloidal silver. I think it's great. It's better for plant health STS is amazing
It does it definitely reverses stuff fine
But the problem is is you get basically plant damage so the more you spray the more damage you damage the stomata you damage other
parts of the plant
you know the tips of
all your leaves can get damaged but uh, you know, so it's just a it's a personal preference thing and don't expect to
Have it all right, I would practice doing your reversals first before you actually try to time
Putting your reversals in with your room donor to receiver. I think that
It's something that needs to be learned and tested and proven and then you work on it
And then you actually can you know, but you can also collect the pollen from your reversals and apply it on of the plants
You know, that's a great way of doing it in the beginning until you get your timing down
but obviously if you put those donors in with the
Intermingled the two plants you're gonna get better results. The pollen is gonna be super fresh and it's gonna fly a lot better
So that being said
Influen harvesting story make sure you're okay
So I would say the one thing you can harvest, you know
Some people get these big pans and you can tap your stuff on parchment paper scrape it
Let it fully dry before you seal it but desiccants lots desiccants. You can do desiccant beads
You can do rice
Rice actually is a desiccant. So is rice flour. I prefer rice flour over
Traditional flour, but you can use any sort of flour those basically
We're good and store it in glass something that's non-static
With desiccants in it and keep it cold
This purple color on
The pollen sacks indicate anything about transferring purple color how to mail with purple strip pollen sacks and red I
think you know purple plants
that can be something that
Can be passed on you know, I think I think that's interesting. I think that's that pollen would should have been kept and tried and tested
Not everything you use or do is gonna translate how you want it to so it's
You know, there's a lot of trial and error when you're talking about genetics
you know because you're dealing with dominant and recessive traits and
When you're dealing with dominant recessive traits the issue comes along that you're like, oh man
I love this and I'm gonna cross this with this and I expect to get this but that's just not always the case
because
you know some of this stuff can be so dominant that you get it and everything and it takes away and even though you think you're
Breeding a plant infrastructure that they're really the dominant traits come out in it and it could you know
Fuck your project up or at least change what the results are, you know, and you get unexpected results. So
Just do gibberellic acid so you can well here's the deal you can totally use gibberellic acid GA3
But GA3 is more of a booster
So I use GA3 with colloidal silver with nano silver and with STS
I've used GA3 but you know in small amounts, so I just use it as a booster for plant health
But you can definitely use it as a reversal when they've done it with
traditional agriculture for years
so
Can you pollinate a reversed female at the same time that's a great question and yes, it's totally possible
You're doing a true s1 because you're especially like with autoflowers you put it on itself
That is the only way you can self a plant
Because if you're putting it on any other plant, you can't keep those clones alive. So
Selfing and autoflowers go you can do you half a plant you can do the top or the bottom, you know, and
You will get seeds you typically you get seeds if you keep those reverse plants long enough, you will have mature seeds
so
Some people say you can but it's not recommended. It's just depending on what you're trying to do
For breeding purposes, you know, I don't think there's anything wrong with that necessarily
so
But test your shit out. That's the other thing guys. Make sure to test everything out you make
Don't make a whole bunch of seeds and say you're a breeder start selling your seeds and expect not to have problems some people do that
Do you think people reversing female? Oh, let's let's go to this question because I think it's really pertinent
But do you think people reversing females cause herm problems?
Well, I think if you have herm problems you have herm problems whether it's feminized or regular breeding
If you have plants that have intersexual traits and you cross them to other plants that have intersexual traits
You're gonna have problems now. You can breed that in and out of a variety
You can make stuff more stable or less stable through breeding through quality or shitty breeding
These things are stuff that you know as you start to learn stuff you doing selections
You understand stress testing people do stress test their stuff really good breeders stress test their stuff
And you know people that grow on you know, I know some breeders up in Humboldt that are on the coast
Those guys have advantages because in their environment, there's typically powdery mildew so they can breed out stuff. That's powdery mildew resistant
Things like that. Those are important things to do as a breeder
And if you're testing stuff, it's great to be able to send seeds up to somebody that's in a coastal region
To actually test those seeds out and see how they do before you start selling them to the public
So that's our show for today guys
All right, have a good one everyone. Yep. Thank you very much. I'll see you guys next week. Take care
