How's it going future cannabis project community? Very excited to present 707
seed banks breeder profile today. Now what excites me about the breeder
profiles is this where concept and theory really intersect with practical
application when it comes to working with the plant whether we're growing it
or breeding with it it's like it's game time it's not just you know theoretical
anymore and the one that 707 seed bank chose was the NL 5 Hayes cross to the
lemon tree me personally I couldn't be more excited just back from PIF con two
Sundays ago and Josh was there as well a mortal was there in spirit and the
vibes were high so I'm definitely looking forward to see where this saga
goes I think we're gonna go around the circle maybe introduce the growers if
you guys want to talk about you know yourselves your grow history or grow
style whatever you guys thinks relevant and then we'll probably give the floor
to Sean so he can really talk about like what his work is you know and what he
was expecting out of it and then maybe we'll pop in afterwards and kind of give
some feedback about what we're seeing in the grow I've been following along with
with Josh's his plants look awesome I've been following along with a mortal
a little bit and his are kind of on the younger side but they look happy and
healthy in their garden beds and I just flipped mine a couple days ago so hoping
to see what's goody soon and I guess we'll start with you Josh if you want
kick it off Josh Joel Joel I'm tripping G I'm sorry all good
Joel from paper mill what's going on guys I'm bad with the government names forgive me
no paper mills good enough so uh yeah I started off in Rhode Island I was
growing since let's say oh three and Rhode Island had an insane medical law
like at the time you could stack caregiver cards and you got 24 plants
each card and it was just killer then that's where I started popping tons and
tons of seeds and really haven't stopped we pop hundreds of packs a year
and really it's just about selecting right now we don't do any like production
crops not for the last few years so this is my selection I love this lemon tree
cross right here so this one's showing a lot fatter leaf I think then some of
the other ones I had they're all kind of stocky which is really cool and I
actually didn't know if this was a feminized pack are these fems they are
okay I was gonna say pretty awesome female selection so let's see I'm gonna
show you let me get on share my screen for a second yep and that should come up
down bottom and then I could pop it up yeah let me know if you're getting that
I will say as a side and that paper mill is going through an insane amount of
genetics a hunting and hunting and hunting that's for sure more than that
there you know I don't know if that's showing right now on the video nope it
should pop up down below like where we see ourselves underneath kinda you got
to go down and present share screen and then if you open it in a different
screen it'll pop up all right and then I'll do entire screen sure okay all
right let me see if this works again okay how we looking smooth cool all
right so here's my first selection here my number two these are the three
standouts that I'm showing out right here they had the most differences in
them this is probably the thinnest leaf out of all of them but they're all
pretty nice stacking on them this is probably the in-between here still got
some fat leaves and then this third one I just showed you that's kind of sitting
on the side of me real nice dark fat leaf on that one and you had one that
you said that was noticeably different than one behind you right because we
were talking early how they're pretty symmetric you know like they were all
looking like you could tell they were sisters you know it was cool yeah this
was the greenest like all piffs they need some more nitrogen in them I think
when you're running a piff strain and I mean this one's running just like my
lemon strains I have some lemon tree strains some 707 lemon tree actually but
yeah this one's kind of growing really similar to that awesome so yeah I'm
growing that and I always start off cocoa because I go aero cloners so then
my bedrooms straight cocoa so I can really push them I notice with organics
that rote development you're just waiting forever for roots no matter what
you throw at it so I just do cocoa with minerals and get those roots huge and
then I'll switch over to like a peat cocoa mix and then now be in my flower
room so then I'll go full bottle organics through drip irrigation through
my flower so veg is always mineral based just cuz I'm going right from an aero
cloner and then I really want those roots like to explode and I'm only in
like a little quarter gallon and then flower I'll switch to a cookie two gallon
and so I'll rock a two gallon the rest of the way through so they'll get fed
every day but I use bio biz but I'm doing a bio Canada with amendments right
now just cuz I did it before I had some of the tastiest weed I ever had so
chasing it chasing the taste chasing hash yields to see if we can bump up
some terpenes and different things in there so I have seen as far as
synthetics I've seen a third-party research that Mills gets the highest
like turps and amount off of synthetic rosin at least which was interesting to
me hmm yeah how about you coastal grown you want to give a little background on
yourself your growth style yeah I started growing back in 98 99 when I was
a kid and then I got in the commercial industry in about 2005 and then I got
out of it in part of nine because the hell that was about to I saw what was
gonna happen it did back then and I was lucky to just get out get a house move
away and I just kind of quit growing for a little while and then I got back into
it again like after a couple years but nothing like commercial anymore but I
did work with the government doing large-scale applications of herbicide
and other stuff like like over a 2,500 acre site I basically spent a lot of my
time doing yeah that large-scale stuff prior to that I yeah I did do like five
different grow houses and I'd be running as many as 1,200 and one but yeah I had
to get out of that when it when it got really really hot so I just quit that
for the rest of my life because I'll never I'll never go back to any of that
stuff but now I live in a state where it's legal and I can do what I need to
do but you know just keep everything within your as long as I keep everything
within the rules and you know that's what I'm doing now and so yeah but as
far as growth style I do cocoa I do rock wool on on a flood table I will do
organics outside I I do it all I mean I even add in isopods and I do the whole
nerdy organic thing I'm just I keep my hands into all of it because I think
it's fun so that's that's pretty much me is basically the entirety of FCP how
about any lemon tree or any any hazy experiences in your past is there
anything that you're like expecting out of this seed pack hoping for you just
kind of going blind I'm really hoping to pull out like that that woody like
that that like woody kind of like his cactus like kind of wood smell like
rotting wood smell kind of haze out of it because it's nl5 haze and I know it
really brings that in and we just harvested about five elbows last fall
of just original but because it was seed stock you couldn't get really that much
of a turpin but scent because you know it just it cuts it off so for this one
I'm not really worried about that and so I'm hoping to have like some fun with
that and get something that will give you know give us something fun to play
with I guess I'll spit my game real quick I'm very familiar with the PC 3
side of it the nl5 haze side of it I've been running that cut for about year and
a half now and probably have eight runs under my belt now the lemon tree I got
to see a lot of and even got to see some plants when I used to live in Santa Cruz
but I've never grown it myself the homies that were doing it were kind of
always like you know be hesitant like she's a little finicky you know she you
know doesn't produce the most but it was the bees knees at one point you know and
some of the big homies let me get a couple of rips and very very flavorful
so I'm excited to see how that pairs with one that I'm familiar with pretty
much one parent I'm super familiar with other parent haven't really had any
experience with as far as growing this round I'm gonna be flowering in five
gallons the actual seedlings it's not my usual protocol but I'm pretty anxious on
this one I want to start smelling turps quick I'm rather excited on this search
so I took a couple backup cuttings I'm gonna flower the seedlings themselves
and five gallons I cut them back to where there's you know only a couple
little foot high branches and I'm just gonna send it and see what comes off of
it and then with the backup cuttings I'll keep one as a mother backup and
then I'll probably flower the other one if I'm impressed with the ones that are
not given so much love they'll get up a pot it's like a 10 gallon probably given
a little bit better real estate the next round and yeah totally not my style
it's the cuts aren't even rooted yet and I already have the seedling mothers
flowering that's I mean I'm fairly confident I'm gonna get the roots as
usual but it's not my style at all I'm like that anxious to to see what's doing
the nutrition this time I haven't fully decided yet it's got a bunch of soil and
compost and the five gallon they just got transplanted in so they'll be good
with just some like light food for now I haven't really figured out what
they're gonna get to go full flower I do agree with paper mill that they're
they're nitrogen hungry for sure like most of the piffs my last round in the
soil bed I actually got the soil test and the analytics showed that there was
zero nitrogen left and I wasn't aggressive but whatever I was putting in
there it was devouring so without the soil test I never would have known that
it was that it was really consuming that much so I'm trying to be conscious
of that I did notice that yours had a little curls on the end as well paper
mill I've been seeing that a little as well not anywhere else in the garden and
I even put these ones right in the middle of the light today to see if
maybe they're light hungry and then if that does it I'm gonna put them on the
peripheral to see if they were light sensitive start there see if it's
light-related because everything else seems happy but uh I couldn't be more
excited American lemon haze nice and I guess I'll let a Sean from 707 seed bag
come in and you can go as deep or scratch the surface as much as you want
I'm highly curious why you chose these mothers to pair them together if you've
done any tests growing yourself and I plan on throwing some in the Sun as well
so I want to see how they do inside first and then see how they do in the
Sun in the spring but I'll leave the floor to you so I think that um I got my
pips in the back of the room that got the least amount of light and they're
all going for it because they're the tallest out of everything I have in
there so they're reaching so maybe it's a light sensitive issue or something
like that who knows but um anyhow I chose two plants the lemon tree that
picked I grew out a shit ton of them and I selected like the tallest most
vigorous one out of them all lemon tree itself is short squat hella slow like
full-on indigo almost you know so I like to cross opposites like total opposite
ends of the spectrum of things right to get like a full like f1 hybrids is what
I was thinking you know but I didn't use the PC 3 I used the just the regular
PIV cut cut on that cross it's a it was more airy than the PC 3 that I grew but
the PC 3 I did finally got powdery mildew pretty easy so I just kind of
stopped without one and just kept with the pit but so I mean you know the idea
was just cross complete opposites fence you know it's just they're easy yeah
there's not much thinking about it so you know I picked the most vigorous
lemon tree that I found out of my 707 and then hit the pit I had a blue dream
and I hit a gelato 33 and GMO tall stretchy big plants right super easy to
grow super hardy lemon tree itself is a little finicky slow to root I mean it's
just a slow plant but the flavor on that thing is just unreal I mean it's just
mouth-watering every time so I don't know there wasn't much thought or
anything behind the crosses besides easy to grow you know hardy tall plants
that stretch and cross to a shorty right and then just see what happens so far I
got it I kind of wish I gave you guys the blue dreams ones because those
things are just out of control I mean they're there's no I know a lot of
people hate on the blue dream but you know if you grow that thing right dude
it's still fucking delicious and it's huge it's easy huge yields right it just
got a bad name from too many growers too many bad growers grown it sending it off
to wherever right kind of just like every other strain there is oh gee same
thing happened to that sour same thing happened to that but I guess that was
the idea behind it my plants right now are leaning more towards the I mean
Hayes is super dominant every time I've crossed something at Hayes the Hayes
always takes over especially nl5 pays to I used to grow a shit ton of that back
in the late 90s and I mean yet granted it took me 10 11 weeks to flower them
but back then you know I'm getting double the yield of anything else it was
I was crushing it especially in the dispensaries you know they were loving
it over there and it's got that classic a classic 90s taste you know like the
cat pisses sandalwood church you know that's what I grew up with fucking and
the skunky the cat piss the Hayes before before really we'd even had names it was
just it was dank or a swag you know green bud or brown bud and then you got
some of the shy see guys that would call a green but seedless brown regs or
Hayes that's like they're one of them after a killer green bud those are like
the next three options for a lot of growing up TV at the dead shows and walk
around with their ears so I have a couple things to say about that I
totally agree with a lot of what you're saying with the blue dream I'm going
through some of Robbie from nerds testers right now it's a blue dream
supreme and the vigor is all there and you could tell almost the way that thick
hairs come out when the hair is first it just has blue dream all over it right
she is screaming you know I haven't seen that plant in so long or anything close
to it and like I'm nostalgic for it it's only like two weeks into flower you know
blue dreams got haze in it I saw her like every time I cross anything to Hayes
or use some haze mail it's just dominates it dominates all the crosses
every time but myself and my body chemistry I can't I kind of lean more
towards indica plants right like straight sativas my head spins I start
hearing shit it's no good I like the more you know relax calm me down just
chill I mean I got ADHD like a motherfucker so my brain is racing
non-stop going a hundred miles per hour I need something to calm me down a
little bit sativas just like accelerates it to the next level but I mean so my
plan oh go ahead what's that so one other thing I was gonna ask if you could
expand on like what if it is is it like one of the sisters of the PC 3 is it
totally unrelated is it the Cuban black that you were working with is it top
secret what's what's the what's the house I got the cuts from a buddy who
bought them from what's that nursery out here PCG purple city genetics he gave me
three I believe they just have it labeled as a NYC piff number two or
something no he gave me one from them labeled PC 3 or piff three or something
like that and and then another one was Cuban black or if maybe it was pit I
can't remember I go through so many issues if you got it from PCG I'm
assuming it was the the number three one it's got a different name over on
the west coast it's got a couple different labels but I think unless you
really grew two plants side by side both of them side by side and the number three
had tighter buds light green it grew a little bit shorter and I had a little
bit thicker leaves but it got powdery mildew like it was the only thing that
got the p.m. inside there and then the the other one was straight nl5 pace
right I grew up grown tons of different five cases the cough was that one's a
fast flower along with a faster flower time with along with the more rugged
immune system the the PC 3 was faster denser the the one that I used in this
cross took longer airier buds fluffy right classic nl5 pace Cuban black I bet
that right so I guess he sent them both to him yeah yeah I had both cuts and
groomed like the guy you can tell ones like this tomato wondering
right very interesting that's awesome so yeah I went with that you know I just
wanted something easy hardy to cross to the lemon tree which is finicky and slow
flavor wise I have no idea I always think you know the flavors gonna come
out this way or that way and then what it's done it's like something completely
else all right so mixing and matching when it comes to fence I just sample
them see what works the best and go with that but like for regular seeds I do I
revert you know I got a goal in mind with the regs like you know I'm trying
I'm trying to either isolate a turf or an effect or you know commercial outdoor
what most of its all come up was commercial outdoor and you know with
that I do the where I reverse my males and that way I can pinpoint exactly the
turps that I'm looking for right the females are easy you know exactly what
it is but males you never really know in the past I would do the stem rubs and
whatnot and do the stem rubs select like pick what I think is gonna be the best I
always tag it and then I go through them all and I reverse them all and it's
always the plant like in the far corner that I'm not even looking at that ends
up being like the winner that has the turps and you know I could test that
collapse to get you know tested for the cannabinoids or whatnot so you know I
lost where I was going with that three is super terpy I believe paper mill
he's had a bunch of turf test close to four and my last one was up here was
three point seven as well I think he's pushing for most of the times he said
when he got that one tested yeah twice yeah just about four percent so pretty
chirpy on classic old-school smell my the cactus that I worked is actually
pretty similar to it too a little bit more on the sweeter side not fruity but
just a little bit more sugary tasting but still has that classic like skunky
soapy churchy little smell to it going on that's actually one that I've always
wanted to do was cross the cactus to the haze my cactus is also pure and
indica. I think I think I have a yeah I've been running out of running a pack
right now of your cactus so I have it in flower right now they they do take
forever to grow. This is pure haze right here took 161 days. Pure haze and a hatch.
161 days of flower. The cat piss I found one that's like it does smell it in week
two I'm already getting like an aroma like a ammonia-y. I remember these
little bushes that people used to put outside their house this ornamental bush
and it smells like you know piss and it's kind of right up there I'm hoping
for it I I've never seen there's not a lot of flower pictures out there of it
so right never see it. Every single one will turn out smelling cactus for you.
You know actually the cactus and the lemon tree are one of the very few few
plants where if you actually rub the stem the smell like comes through.
We're normally on a stem rub and especially like after I've been
reversing nails I could tell you maybe like 95% of the time that stem
rub does not come through. It ends up smelling completely like something else.
There's only very very few plants that I've found where stem rub actually
really comes through to the final product. Cactus being one lemon tree
being another I can't think of any more. I think lemon tree is some of the loudest
I mean that's some of the loudest weed. It's incredible. I had someone accuse me
of spraying it with like artificial flavor or something like that.
I was like all right thank you I guess I'm gonna take that as a compliment.
Why you spraying turps big homie? Does the Sun help the lemon tree speed up at all?
Or is it just indoor or even in the Sun she's crawling in veg too?
In the Sun it's a short slow-grown squatty.
What's the strategy you veg them out in like 20 or 30 gallons inside like
starting in November to try to get them beefed up outside?
You gotta grow tons of them.
Sea of green style you know just one put them all next to each other sea of green strip
everything down lollipop it just one giant butt on each plant. Most syndicates
that's the ideal way right. I mean if you're capable if your laws allow it you
know things are always changing. Things aren't how it used to be.
Cat piss from seed like two months in looks like this.
Yeah that's how it is. You have to just you have to like forget about it.
And another thing with the Purindicas is they don't really like too much water.
They like to do a little bit more on the drier side of things where sativas can drink.
They drink and they feed. They like to eat and drink a shit ton.
Purindicas not so much. If you think about like the region they come from you know like the
Afghanis and whatnot it's drier climate over there. They ain't get much rain.
And then you're Steve is coming from like Southeast Asia. You know they're getting dumped on all day long.
You know a couple of times with water from all the rains they got.
And you know they've probably acclimated themselves that way where the teams are more.
They're getting so much more rain. You know the fluffiness is something like combat the mold
where the Indica's are able to stay nice and dense because they get rained on.
You know where they're naturally from and whatnot. At least that's my theory.
Well I don't really know. I'm just a fucking pothead.
Yeah I heard of the monsoon season with the rains too. The sativas how thin they are help.
So they don't just get battered to the ground.
I've heard with the light as well as a theory. So maybe if they're not getting too much UV or IR or whatever
their situation would be where it might be too intense it kind of like lets the light go through.
Whereas the other mountainous ones might need that heat or just a little extra light.
Totally. Totally. Another cool thing I've found with like sativas is even with the sour work really good is
I mean you lose some yield but if you root bound them and are able to keep them nice and healthy root bound
the buds definitely tighten up but you lose a little bit of yield.
Definitely lose some yield. I've grown some really like rock hard sours back in the day in like 2000.
I just kept them in one gallon pots. You know did the seed green with them.
Just one pole on top and they stayed nice and chunky.
I feel like that could be a good strategy. From my experience the sours and the chems and stuff are always polarized.
Where it's nice big soda cans on top and then they get super larfy.
It's just always polarized so I feel like if you could kind of even them out with a technique like that.
Totally. I like that approach. That's cool. What's up immortal? You got some work going on?
Yeah I gotta stay busy. How you guys doing?
Chilling man. Another day in paradise. Excellent. Excellent. Thank you for having us guys.
We went around and did like some grower introductions before. If you just want to
spit anything about like your grow history or your grow technique or like you know anything
you're expecting out of the. So this one is the Cuban black cross to the lemon tree.
Yeah. Yeah I'm excited about that one. Yeah I got that. I got it set right next to the
I'm gonna be running that I think it's the Harlem dreams. I think that's what I'm running. So it's
two Cuban black crosses. You know so it won't sound like they'll stretch about the same amount.
So that's good. I don't have to worry about two different deals. That's you know that's always a plus right?
These lemon tree crosses actually seem pretty stout in general.
Really? For a half Cuban black I would say definitely.
What do you guys think? Yeah pretty much.
Internol is spacing on all mine are really tight. But they don't stretch too much.
They're not too tall.
Lemon tree has no stretch to it at all. Super short, super squatty and it actually like eight
weeks you can pull that sucker. I mean I knew the guys at Santa Cruz were pulling it at like six.
Okay well yeah.
I know. Opposite spectrums a side of plant. You got one tall, stretchy as fuck, takes forever.
The other one's super short, squatty, fast finisher. So it looks like something kind of
cogmetal that should work out. It sounds like it's gonna be turkey. So that's definitely gonna
you know because I'm working with these Cuban blacks right now. They're a little mild. It's
definitely a good flavor but it's a little mild. So you know anticipating that to give it
something good a little bit of extra spice. So that's gonna be nice. I was doing a lot of
last year. Did a lot of skills a little bit of haze. And so we're kind of new into hazes.
Kind of new into growing sativas itself. You know grew like your sourdousels and
blue dreams in the past. But now I'm really getting into more more hazes. I think I grew
like a 16 week something back in the early 2000s. But you know it's just I didn't give it the time
of day. Because once everything else ended you know I have one or two plants of this other haze.
And I was like you know it didn't really work out. But I didn't let it work out you know. And so
now I can see I'm liking it a lot more just because of the energy factor that I'm getting
it from it. I like that. But me myself I've been growing for a while. Always learning.
Doing living soil. I've been doing living soil for a while. You know I got not necessarily right.
But I learned from Selma. Got that book from Selma a long time ago. And he described me
in a soil bed. And I tried to mimic it as best as I could out of just reservoirs or whatever.
But you know just kind of having fun and growing all the way up until now.
I do see some of the crosses when you have that Cuban black haze it's kind of mild like you said.
But then when you hit it with certain stuff it can really bring out that like funky essence. I
have a lavender pith. Selma's lavender that's crossed with it. And it screams like some of
the loudest stuff I've ever seen. So yeah the Cuban haze on its own does seem mild. But it
seems like when you cross it right like I bet this lemon tree crossed with it it's just gonna
be super loud. Yeah that sounds interesting.
I find it interesting about that lavender pith how it tests so high with the terpes. Because
that's almost like floral on floral. Which to me typically isn't the equation for like super loud.
You know it's like it's a real interesting one to me that lavender pith. I love it.
Yeah that lavender is an old cut. So you know over a decade I got to imagine it's a little different.
If anyone smoked that original lavender that Selma first put out it's probably a lot different
than now. But yeah because I get a floral sense on it but not too much. Just some sour in there
I kind of pick up on. So but. We had a lavender and cally.
We actually had those two different ones. There was one that was going around
that seemed like an hercule cross. Really tasted like purple hercule or granddaddy herbs.
And then there was another one that was a real floral tight silvery looking buds on it.
And that one had more of a floral note to it. What's the one that you guys got over there?
I was getting one in SF in the early dispenso days around 05-06. And there was a dispenso on
14th and Mission. They always had the lavender and it was absolutely amazing. It was consistent.
It was dense like you said but floral medium sized flowers. And I would go all the way to
the other side of town just to score that. Right on 14th and Mission. I might have used
might have used to dispense or been to those guys. It was like in between. It was like the
block before it going towards north. And then there was Katima on 13th and Valencia right over
the block. There were some Moroccan cats and they had the best Durban I ever tasted in my life. I
don't know if you ever went to that one. I never went to that. I've grown a bunch of Durban out.
Bunch of different companies back in the day. And it always just had that Dutch kind of
that Dutch flavor like train wreck or jack or whatnot. These guys were making the liquorice
chirps loud somehow. I've never really had any other Durban that I dug as much as theirs. But
like I don't know they had it dialed in. I'd usually stop there if I was in that part of town
too. Right on. But it made me not like any other Durban because theirs was so groovy.
What kind of flavor did it have to it? Loud black liquorice. Like they made liquorice chirps
super loud somehow. It would just coat your mouth on the exhale. It would last.
Yeah it was so lovely. They specialized in hash because they were Moroccan cats but their flower
was extraordinary as well. Very cool. Yeah now every Durban I've grown like even Canadian seeds
or Dutch seeds they've always had that train wrecky cleaner kind of flavor to it.
Some of them early. They were always fluffy. Yeah nothing ever excited me with the Durbans.
I have a cool from Compound. He did a triangle kush cross with jet fuel gelato and then that's
cross with Durban. It's really good. It's nice. Tightened it up. But if you hate Jack Terps it's
over because I guess that's kind of that's what it is that's coming out. It's like that. It's
that Jack. Like a lemony cleaner but I always get like a earthy carrot if it's a really good Durban.
I get that carrot-y kind of yeah organic earth. But yeah CBD Jack kind of ruined all the Jack
Terps. No one likes that anymore. Nobody likes the Jack Terps. I don't know. You know it's my
kids are in their 20s. Their friends don't even smoke flower and never have. They just smoke
pens which is crazy. Or dad. The old school. There's an old school flowery like Terps like
the flowery like woody Terps from like the old school Jack from Sensi. Those are like the best.
And I think a lot of people are just missing out on that.
Like the hazy because the original Jack and like original super super silver haze back in the mid
90s were hazy smelling cactus smelling. And most of the times when you saw this it was just super
silver haze or one of those just renamed to cactus. But then everything just kind of went more
towards that cleaner which is super dominant flavor to when you're doing crosses. Everything
just kind of went towards that cleaner lemony piney smell in the Amsterdam scene.
Yeah even the amnesia cut was basically just super silver haze that they were just whoring
around Amsterdam. Actually there is a story where Ariane Roskam actually admitted that he just bought
out a whole bunch of clones I think for Bud from I think Barney.
And then he used that to win the cup one year and he was just like yeah screw it you know.
But it's just it's hilarious because yeah you can name anything you want.
You know but it is what it is. And it's funny that they don't even care anymore. They'll just
admit the fact. I mean it's not that it's a strain anyway. So whatever. I mean talking about
renaming the the New York the NL5 haze is probably like the biggest out of all of the renamed. You got
the cough. You got dog shit. You got Cuban black. What else am I missing. I'm sure there's probably
church Frankie. Keep it going. Keep it going. Keep it going. Name games. We got more than that
definitely. Poo Day. That's what the fucking homies call it. Poo Day. Block work. Keep them
coming. Keep them coming. That probably has the most names than any other strain alive.
But you see like copper penny kind of smell. That's what my we'd get these little bags from
New York. It was either sour or we'd get some piff when it came back in these little tiny bags.
It just smelled like rusted pipe like get you like to the moon. As a kid you're smoking all
this garbage and then if that came around it was like what the hell. That's really. Yeah it really
was spinning. Yeah I think it's strange that in the tri-state a place that's so full of anxiety
in general a genetic like that is so popular. It seems almost like how amphetamines do the
opposite of their intention. It's like everyone's in the cities on Ritalin and they're all just
bopping around New York minutes getting shit done smoking other haze.
I don't know I think it's a funny area to adopt like that. It shows you how strong that haze
genetic is because they were able to keep some cuts for a super long time and it seems to stay
healthier longer than I mean they weren't able to keep the sours. I mean that's an interesting
point. I can't find the original sour anywhere or at least the one that I was growing back in 2000.
No I got some cuts and then they all dutted out they weren't they just weren't there anymore.
Yeah right and everyone that tries to do the rework they're doing a really good job but it's
just it's not everyone knows it's not there it's just it's it's almost but not quite.
What would you guys speculate happened genetic drift if you believe in that hopley and
everyone just killed it because like it slowed down a little bit like what do you guys think's
happening? That was definitely one of the strains that was harder to grow than all the others in the
garden. That's that's been my one of my speculations with my homies that it's like hard to coax out
what they were getting back then and like maybe a lot of attempts aren't swinging hard enough or
letting it go to maturity or like so yeah I think that's a good like point. I think people gotta
break out the the Maxi Bloom tin and I think you just gotta do do the one part Maxi Bloom that's
how I used to get that sour maybe that's why it's gone I don't know that's what Rez was rocking
It's just a whole bunch of fake ripoffs. I don't know. That's all it is is just fake ripoffs of
the original and you know maybe someone found bag seed and then they took clones out of it and then
they you know sold them out to their friends or whatever and then they sold them to the
owner and then they sold them to the owner and then they sold them to the owner and then they
took clones out of it and then they you know sold them out to their friends or whatever
but I think that's what most of this has become that's why no one believes like there's a true
OG Kush or anything else because it's it's uh it's been the name has been like tarnished you know
I think Karma Karma's done some good work with it he's got some loud sour
So what do you think about this uh Sean I would I would speculate from what I've heard from the
big homies is similar with hazy turps that they're really passed mostly through the mail
and that no one's ever really goofing around with a sour male so maybe that's why we're not really
finding what we're looking for when we're looking through crosses I'm running through a pack of
katsu sour right now I forgot who he collabed with but someone that had like a like an old
school sour male so I'm hopeful I'm chasing the dragon like everyone else I'm hoping to find those
turps in there but you have any insight into that I'm feeling like with that male it might
actually get the turps to pop out if I do my that's assuming if I do my job right now right
I mean you never you never know until you grow them out you can speculate all you want but
until you grow it out have you noticed that certain turps pass more through the mail like
I know not many people have messed with sour males or like there might not even really be one but
right right no I mean most people that if if they did get a male unfortunately it probably came from
what's that guy's name uh rez dog I don't know if I should even say yeah from one of his packs
yeah I know kind of sucks he's such a dipshit oh yeah I don't know I've made a ton of sour crosses
and most times like sour and og were one of the hardest hardest drains that I've worked like to
actually get that flavor um usually it comes out into this like dull like wet cardboard kind of
like wet dog smelling um not not very appetizing or pleasing at all like the 707 og that I did
I mean I restarted that thing three or four times like different steps of the way because I just
wasn't happy without you know with the results went back redid the crosses you know with new
moms and dads and is that this one no that that one uh yeah so the the the mail that I used
for that that mail actually finally after like 10 years um but that that's a back cross three
mail that I used for all that stuff um you know after 10 years it finally like produces og gas
fuel smelling or or you know times before where I where I try to create that it's no flavor at all
it reminds me of the white or not the white um fire I love the white everyone hates that one
I mean it's beautiful but for me it also doesn't have enough flavor but that's just me and and I
get it like uh uh what was the guy's uh Lance um swamp boys like he gave me the cut years ago
I grew it out and I got a really nice like Bubba Kush flavor out of it so he
you know and he was saying like that's super hard to get out of it it was all organics and whatnot
you know it tasted good and whatnot but still just not enough for me at least for my taste but
I want to own my mouth water when I'm taking a rip you know I want to be drooling a little bit
you know have you ever tried f2 in or f3 in any of those sour crosses that didn't show
any promising offspring but maybe try to look at the next one in case any of like the
grandparents shit came out or like I never got into it too much sour is one of like the very
few strains where I rub up against it it gives me hives it's also another one of the strains where
if you slightly fuck it up you're going to be trimming forever right and and also like you
know I've been commercial outdoor for years and years and man the trippers fucking hate that shit
too you know that's one of the truth like I mean even if like you know you do a good job and pluck
all the leaves off on the plant outside you're still looking at like an eight to ten hour trim
job on every pound so it wasn't cutting it for us out here right yeah no way and then
was trying to lowball like you know fuck you I ain't going that shit at all no more
oh someone might find it in some like recessive like s1 like accidentally I think it's just going
to happen where someone's going to randomly find it you know it has to come from hidden
lineage back in the parent that's got to get coaxed out so maybe it'll be a happy accident
I know I have a I have like a gelato you know wedding cake and I have the skunkiest
fucking like chirps coming off one of them so and none of that is skunky
and so maybe that'll happen maybe some s1 will help get it out of there but
I do have I crossed that same mail that same og mail that I had I had I did cross that with the
original sour cut or I've heard it be called Amish sour as well
and I did the shire Amish
I've never heard of called the shire and that one uh some of them definitely had the sour
flavor but on an og style looking bud which was cool right because the trim was hellier
and then I also have um that same original sour
do uh ones fluffier fluffier but at least half of them turned out strong sour smells
and then the other half was all chem but you know those those are so closely related
at least I feel they're closely related yeah so those ones turned out pretty good but
it like I said I've made a shit ton of sour crosses and most times it just never came through
it's a pipe dream right yeah yeah but it's a dream you know
oh there's people they made their whole life right that's that's it sour or nothing
yeah my speculations who would have them vessel might be holding legit sour
and uh dude that was working with UC Davis he was on here on future cannabis project uh
Joe Ramahi Dr. Joe Ramahi he has a crazy extensive tissue culture from like you know
you know he's got he's got genetics my two best guesses for like you know the flavor that we're
all looking or like you know I feel like one clear indication too sour was so unique where when you
broke it up it expanded we're like if you took a gram of sour and a gram of almost anything else
the sour somehow expanded to bigger than what it appeared so it's like I don't know how to describe
it I just remember breaking up so many piles of that and like I don't feel that ever anymore that
expansive like consistency it just all the little pods just like somehow like popcorn open like it's
so funky I would speculate vessel or Joe Ramahi if you're listening send the sour cuts around
to the crew we're all chasing the monkey the the sour cut that I got back the original one I got
back in the day it was probably 2000 or 2001 came from a cat suit and uh he said he sent me that
clone and he sent me another clone um which he didn't know what he thought it was something else
a mislabeled clone I grew him out it ended up being uh the blockhead uh spice of life blockhead
and uh I kept that that blockhead for years and actually worked the shit out of it
but the uh yeah frosty it's actually what I'm smoking right now I don't know if you guys
it's just super frosty right and it's uh one of those one of those outdoor strains that uh
uh back then I was passing off as indoor you know very few outdoors uh have that indoor look to it
uh yeah I worked the shit out of that one too but uh I talked to Breeder Steve and he's like
it's cool to release it just don't call it blockhead so I call it love candy um
anyhow that's cool that's a g move that's a that's a solid blessing right right yeah yeah
but that the sour cut that I had gotten from cats to the original one I mean that's that's
seeds I'm looking through right now is cats who I have high hopes I'm still chasing the pipe dream
but it's a OG man he's a great guy he knows good weed for sure I got 20 seeds we'll see
good luck man I ran 30 packs of different sizes all last year I don't have one there's no
powers yeah different breeders
I actually got these ones from a friend who gave up the same hunt they went through so many sour
packs and eventually they're like we have to quit it like we all talked about it we're over it
look and see if there's any you want I was like I'll take the cats who wants
so I popped them right away and then like I'll be the the pinch hitter for the last
effort on their years long hunt it's crazy I asked him a while back if he still had that
same cut that he had given me and I'm pretty sure he worked a different one with whatever
seeds he's got now right that's a bummer yeah I mean I don't know if the plant has just mutated
deteriorated to where that potency isn't coming out because the flavors come through
um it's just it's just not nearly as potent as it was before
now you're not supposed to go do an activity but you have to smoke first and then the activity's
not happening after it has to be some strong weed yeah well absolutely absolutely that's how I
remember it I remember it where you weren't gonna do the task after the seats that I always
chase and stop chasing years ago was the roadkill stuff I went all over all over the world popped
on planes oh yeah we got it we got it went all over and uh nothing nothing I don't know how many
thousands I've spent on seeds for that thing that one I just gave up with
I got it from West Virginia oh shit I had a friend who had two ounces and he was like
oh well it's really seedy so I'll just charge you 250 per ounce this was back in like the early
2000s when chronic was you know a lot more expensive and uh so I said fuck yeah
I have the seeds I got 20 left I'm afraid they might have been heat exposed um but yeah they
came from Appalachia and they definitely when I grew some of them out smelled like complete skunk
and like coffee and um there was even one phenotype that smelled like um
vicks vapor rub and it had like uh uh calyx is the size of your pinky nail it was really weird
really neon green and shit it was it was the craziest butt I've ever fucking seen in my life
but yeah it had a few different phenos were they short indica's
um some of them were shorter some of them more like look like a skunk hybrid
in terms of uh like the height morphologically you know they like they they had like a little
more spacing in between air nodes and stuff um but there were some that were very very compact
very very compact and had very like golf ball kind of buds especially like the coffee phenotype
we would have in cali back in the day where like the shorter
start are super light green golf ball size buds um and uh you know I asked Tom Hill years ago I
was like what the fuck happened to it and he was like you ever heard the old timers being like
the best weed I've ever smoked is the Panama red or the Colombian gold right that's like a
it's a nostalgic thing it's what it's what you grew up with it's what you're introduced with
it's um one of those things but like can you grow that now and sell it fuck no um compared to today's
weed that shit sucks right it's a I mean brown frowned but so like brown is down brown is down
right right everyone watches anti-growth show Tom Hill put a yes he was like dude the uh
the skunk from back in the day um which you know is what I grew up with uh he was like
it didn't yield for shit and it wasn't stony at all but it was the first weed I smoked so
anything I pretty much smoked back then got me fucking ripped um and then uh he said that's why
it disappeared and then like you know the uh more the fruit the blueberries came in which were
yielded five times the amount were faster and didn't get as much like mold or whatnot
for him back in the day and that's pretty much what annihilated set the different trend I don't
know every 10 years it seems like there's a trend and then it passes something new comes in
uh you know especially with the purples purple that was since the late 70s
and then it's out um the one that seems to be lasting the most though OG Kush right
especially out here in the west it's uh everybody's still like everybody's still like soju
probably still my favorite weed too to date
gets me higher and higher every time I smoke it and tastes fucking delicious
straight confidential cheese had an effect like that to me uh I feel like the confidential crosses
I would never get a tolerance to like the longer I smoked them it was just zoom higher and higher
I love cheese some people hate it myself I fucking love it dude that's shit it's delicious
um I like I like making a lot of crosses with it too because it's um it's a hearty hearty plant
super you know super strong um pest resistant doesn't get powdery mildly for shit
um yeah just this is all around great fucking plant
it can hash pretty good too does it I'm not I'm not a half guy I still
I'm either ripping this or rolling dudes um you know yeah flowers the way to go but I'm a smoker
hash I take one hit and then I'm on the couch give me some ice cream go to bed
I'm not a half guy I'm a smoker
it's this skunk it's a skunk so it's it's a good strain that will easily you know be propagated
it'll like finish off quickly and you know it's mold resistant it's it's just generally a good
strain um maybe it doesn't have the turpin profiles that people want or the THC
you know output that people want but I think you know as any good skunk is I think it's it's
it's a good strand to use on the whole it's just uh uh I think it's underrated now because it's
so old and people have seen it for so long because it's been around for freaking forever you know
I've grown a shit ton of skunk with number ones back in the day
never did I get anything like the UK cheese they always had a um they were always fluffy
real thick hairs on them real thick orange hairs and it always had like a perfumey a perfumey taste
to it um where you know the cheese is like stanky feet skunk uh I don't know but
so I feel like this is a perfect time to ask someone's opinion I respect since you bring up
the name game so cheese is a skunk number one selection in my mind it was special enough
where it demanded its own name and like its own life it's it became its own entity which to me is
deserved now let's say one of us four pull something that's so special to us or the
community or to you like should that be named or is it just the Cuban black lemon tree like I'd love
to hear where your moral compass is as far as like when something stays the same name if it's like a
cut let's say different phenotypical expressions as far as environment sometimes people will call
it different things like I'd love to hear your opinion about all the shenanigans if it's a hybrid
or a better one as a breeder every dogs I breed uh champion rabbits meat rabbits and chickens
um for the I wish the cannabis was like like uh like dogs where like you mentioned the kennel's
name and then whatever the strain is or you know at least give give the guy who created it some
credit like if you want to change the name like like I did with the blockhead you know um like
I wrote it down straight up I was like you know this is breeder Steve's blockhead whatever it's
an interesting nuance there too it's like a respectful not calling it what it is it's like
there's so many nuances you know it's very intriguing dynamic exactly exactly I um you know
I don't mind the renaming at all it's been going on forever and it's gonna go on forever
but uh I just wish some people would uh maybe throw what it's actually is
um and then call it whatever the fuck you want you know it's like uh but that's just me I don't
know it you know if I gave somebody seeds and and uh they uh renamed it made some seeds and started
selling the seeds yeah that's that's a no-no for me but um I would say more of a clone only like
if someone finds a clone only more than taking the work as a line like how the cheese like went
all different places but it kind of became its own thing it wasn't scum number one anymore you
know what I mean like just like cat piss right I mean cat piss is I mean before you had the Amsterdam
the Jack Piney smell stuff the era before that was all cat piss skunky stuff everything from
Amsterdam had that cat pissy smell coming out of it um and you know that's another one of those
things that's just like uh um renamed a million times and and uh whatnot but I feel like that's
an interesting dynamic as well where sometimes the name just gets attached to the terp where it's like
if it's cat pissy it's cat piss you know if it's cushy it's cush and then you know so on and so
forth you know so I feel like that's a whole nother interesting dynamic where like what is
cat piss genetically or is it just the terp you know because I feel like when people say piff
they're talking about a terp it's not necessarily a genetic and it's right name is crazy I appreciate
your feedback gotta love the name gave any of you guys have any uh feedback hold on oh sorry
I was just saying oh it's all good I was just saying that uh it's kind of like rock and roll
like uh it was easy to name the band in the 50s and 60s when there was you know you could be called
the birds the stones it was easy and as you get a thousand people naming now it's harder to figure
out your name harder to figure out you know what's your title the album I don't know it's all so
yeah it was it's definitely nice back in the day when it was you know you could taste it and then
you could just call it that right right or just what I have to name it straight now like I gotta
do all sorts of google searches um do a thing on instagram be like is this name taken it's
fucking crazy it's pretty fucking hard name weed plant though um I wish I could just call it chronic
who chronic oranges kgb
I had one that I have one that sticks to the wall fairly easy and I've been joking when the homies
come over I was like dude 60 a slice it does the wall stick testament this is kgb bro like you know
that you know the vibes so we got uh we got dog days in here he's asking a thousand times he said
he's running some of your cat piss ask him the specific pedigree of his cat piss I have always
wondered how far he worked it um so a little history with the cat piss uh high school I grew
up in the bay area um in my high school alone we probably had six or seven different cactus
varieties usually they came from or we would call it like uh after the dealer's name we would have
nate dog piss we had claire's piss um or we called it by the city we bought it from um that's what I
did anti-cat piss was like what we got who said any cat piss that's what we used to got and that's
what we used to get like that's what we would call our batch was just where it came from so I worked
the Pittsburgh piss okay you right right next door to Antioch it's the same little indica plant
same uh and this is back in the early 90s um and that that cactus uh yeah I got no idea what the
actual genetics are behind it um it's uh pure indica I've heard stories maybe northern lights
it is the best story that I've heard to date um I heard how you were alluding to before that
sometimes it used to pop out of the super silver haze as well certain years of those crosses
yeah so I would speculate maybe some of the ones that remind us of those turps might have come out
of those certain good years those good cross patches right the majority of the piss back then
was uh some kind of a haze super silver haze or whatnot um the Antioch or the Pittsburgh piss
which was also called Uncle Bob by the uh by the actual growers they called it Uncle Bob
that one's pure indica the same one that I worked and the only reason I worked that one was because
it was the only one I could find I mean I tried uh just like the roadkill skunk I tried to find
that thing forever and kept on paying and paying and paying the people being like oh yeah we got
it we got it and it ends up being something fucking completely else similar happened to
me with the Antioch spot they were doing it real big eventually they got nailed and we must have
given them three or four different cuts and promise of getting the cat piss back and we're like
we'll always give it back to you you know and then when they got hit they lost everything we still
gave them back everything that they wanted that we had but there was no cat piss to give back we're
like come on guys you know like why do you gotta be so g you should have gave us the freaking cut
yeah um it was the same thing always a promise we'll hook you up this time we'll hook you up
this time just let us get a couple cuts you know you've been out to Antioch then huh what's that
you you uh you know Antioch area I had one buddy that was doing a smaller garden there like a home
grow but the homies that were growing the cat piss were there where they never let us there
I don't know what part of town they were in and like they asked they didn't give you know
I used to have a uh a house over there uh back in the late 90s and it was uh a block away from
the police station by the marina over there and I had this prostitute knows it was a guy cooking
meth in front of our house and then like 500 pound prostitute in front of him and then you know the
whole neighborhood's all gangbangers and whatnot so I was like it was one of the best spots because
they had so many people before you always want more degenerates yeah totally totally yeah the
home girl went well over there I want to say it was like 10 blocks from in and out it wasn't too
far like off the exit and uh yeah I was long gone before they built in and out out there but yeah
this is like way too bad yeah yes that's uh East Bay I was born and raised that's my that's my
stomping grounds back in the day oh right on as soon as I was as soon as I turned 18 I got
the fuck out went to Santa Cruz I was in uh I was in Boulder Creek there for a while and
it was my first grow job uh I was 18 and um my boss ended up uh they opened up they finally
opened up a hydro store out there in Aptos and the DEA were following everybody yeah from there
yeah operation green fire that was that was my very first experience my very first bus
um that was in 96 and then uh got the fuck out of there went back to the bay
and uh then all like uh Trinity County Mendocino all over up north where it was safe you know not
necessarily you know the whole reason the Emerald Triangle got a good name back in the day was um
uh the judge the federal northern district judge was pretty fucking lenient um you weren't doing
a shit ton of time if you got busted up there where if you went to a different part of Cali
eastern area eastern district if you got busted you're doing five years for sure no no question
about it so that's what like really what gave Humboldt its name but I mean if you think about
grown climate um it's wet it's cold it gets foggy not not uh so much the best for the outdoors but
you know it was just lenient like you you know you weren't really doing that much time if anything
I've really had then uh Santa Cruz was like the cutoff point of the northern district you know
like that way of putting it anything south you're fucked you're doing five years but there
next town past Watsonville like it changed it was like yeah it was
so I mean like you know just a matter of 30 miles is the difference of doing work release
or five years in in the you know so laws are funny laws are funny you just you just gotta know
right I feel like as 215 moved on Santa Rosa County and then Santa Cruz County kind of like
became close to like the the emerald triangle you know where it was like the triangle almost got
extended into Santa Rosa and it was like the cruise was pretty lenient on the enforcement
like you said and like the rules they suggested were very lenient you know like yeah yeah it was
some good times during those uh medical days so good times I'll tell you what yeah the in Aptos
Santa Cruz Mountain Naturals I was I was real cool with them they were uh they were a real nice shop
I like them a lot I'm not sure if you ever went to that one no no I hadn't really uh been back
to the area ever since I left well that's righteous though very similar travels I spent a
bunch of years in the East Bay as well between Oakland and Hayward and uh just bopping around
you know here and there and uh yeah a bunch of years in the cruise as well a couple years
we did our thing right outside of Middletown and uh it was like on the border of Napa County
and uh Mendo County yeah Lake County or Lake County yeah it was like border country where it
was like it was it was wow but like you were just saying I felt like the climate once you went a
little bit out was much more favorable for the Kanna like the Sonoma grown was usually my favorite
when the homies were getting away with their farms in Sonoma it was like the the grass growing was
you know like totally totally yeah the more east you go and the more south you go in Cali I mean
the better the better it is the longer of a season you have for an outdoor or whatnot you know
right now I'm working uh for Turpex um they got a farm in Calaveras County and the climate there
is just fantastic um I could start a month earlier than I could in Mendo and I can let
the plants go a month later than I can in Mendo um it's a lot of fun working there because um
I just do whatever seeds uh want like last year we planted
shit I don't remember how many thousands but shit ton
just all the time has the weather been has the weather turned for uh for any improvement out
there it seems like it's been an early season it's it's dumping right now this weather uh you
know every about four or five years in Cali we'll have a dry season and then it'll go back to its
normal you know four seasons where this year it's just been dumping rain left and right I'll get um
any sunny days I get I'm just shooting up to the farm trying to get shit ready right now
well how would you speculate this is going to affect the overall market this season because I
feel like if Oregon and the whole coast is getting hammered like that it's like depths are already
late to start getting pulled out there and uh I'd be curious to hear what your speculation is I think
it's going to be a strange year myself oh so so far like a lot of the big guys are all going bankrupt
along with the weather I think supply is going to be way down like not like anyone ever charted
out like I'd love to hear your thoughts on that yeah I feel I feel like you know there definitely
ain't going back to anything like it used to be you know like right right now I've heard like on
the legal market it's anywhere from 50 bucks to 350 bucks for outdoor pounds um
but uh this year you know with everybody and whatnot it's it's definitely going up a little bit
just that number is so ridiculous oh there Joel
when you saw everyone just had a regular face on when he said it and it's like guys that's insane
Oregon even worse like if you're doing really good in Oregon you might be getting 200 bucks a pound
like if you're doing really good in Oregon you might be getting 200 bucks a pound
yeah we know they try to they try to sell it out east to us you know
everyone's trying everyone's trying to show the cheapest pounds nowadays hey I can get it
and get even cheaper than that yeah it sounds like the opposite of what we should be trying
to focus on but that's what happens when you get a bunch of investors that you gotta pay off
you know right right you gotta grow a lot a lot a lot of money markets are so different too I see
300 for full units for quarter units all the way down to zips you know like there's zips flying
for 300 I mean like just you know vaporizing so it's like I feel like markets are just so dynamic
let alone national like I don't know the game is critical totally quality quality is always there
I guess right yeah man yeah if you got that heady crowd you'll always you got the heady crowd and
are able to put out triple a it'll always you need flavors right you need all three
right now it kind of seems like like what the BC days were back in the day over here
where everybody just wanted the cheap cheap cheap and the beasters the Canadian stuff came through
and like it what so what year is this we're talking late 90s early 2000s it came in and
it came in strong out here and everybody like that's all you could ever find and then eventually
people kind of wisened up and that just faded out there was no more market for and everyone just
everybody just wanted the you know the headies the fucking super super goods and
hopefully hopefully we're going back to that I think that's kind of already happening I totally
agree with like you know it's just a flood of like whether it's the commercial days when it
was brick you know import weed and like a little bit of kind bud here and there like the beaster
days like I actually think it's going to be a renaissance too because a lot of people are
tinkering with their own genetics at home a lot of breeders are doing creative things and I think
it's going to be another one of those rushes like late 90s like when you know the blueberries and
all the interesting stuff was coming out and then like the late 2000s I'm I'm very very hopeful that
it's like it's going to be it's going to be great and I'd also like to take this opportunity while
we're talking about quality the homies Paper Mill and Immortal both took down trophies within the
last two weeks so that's a big ups to them quality over everything and right off the
ground what'd you guys win it with? This was PIFCON so it was just all Hayes event so I did
first place extracts and LobsterFam's not saying what he did but he's he took home a trophy too so
stay modest so the PIFs they produce pretty good do you do raws?
I do raws
what I didn't even see what are you saying sorry Lobster
sorry dude that's just making me chip because that's actually like a conversation piece when
I'm at dinner now is the yield that you told me from the PC3 as far as washing like when people
talk about I'm like we're talking about thousands of a percent here geez like no point zero zero
and then maybe one more zero and then a one it was it was really low Hayes doesn't wash Hayes
doesn't make hash which is sad and it's so dominant none of the crosses have really pulled
it out too and when people says it yeah I got it to make hash that's not what hash guys would be
happy with it's always like this you know you got a jar of it to show the homies but you got to use
18,000 grams frozen to to make it it's not but no I ended up winning I didn't know how it was
going to be of BHO but these diamonds these lavender pith diamonds were just screaming I was
like they're so loud maybe people are going to smoke some BHO again and they did yeah they smoked
a lot of it so really really good done diamonds are still I think that's still one of the top
tier live rising I still think if they're done really well frozen the same way trim the same
way as hash in high grade the way you do it it's still there and then I'm more the way you do it
with the Hayes is what's the yield different what what kind of yields are you looking at
how is that uh hydrocarbons I'm getting the same just as long as you're not cutting early
a lot of people have issues with their hazes because they're not letting them go
all the way so you're not gonna see those yields but uh I mean Hayes is so greasy it really does
well with BHO extraction seems to uh with hash extraction you can get a yield you have to like
baby it you like have to barely touch it uh and you'll get them but if you if you aggressively
hash with the Hayes it just greases up and you get this kind of poopy looking hash that looks
like flour yeah you know yeah what you gotta do is really dry the shit out of it to the point where
it starts to kill the turps off and then and basically then you can strip it out of like the
exterior trikes and then you go and take what's left and you run it through a BHO you know like
a PVC tube or whatever and you you do that extraction and then you mix the um the keef
with the uh the BHO and then you make like a gummy hash but that's the only way you can really take
really take everything out of it because it is a pain in the ass and it's so larfy too
especially if it's like a really you know pure uh Hayes it's just it's just one leaf one
calyx one click one calyx and so uh you gotta do whatever you can to uh
to get whatever is left from the breeding project you know
Immortal definitely uh shocked me when he was getting yield off the uh El Cubano and the Holy
Communion so I went and I popped 50 of those seeds as soon as I saw his proof of concept
on the mix wash I got 0.25 percent which is like you know I got a jar out of a brick
but I was still happy because it was tangible like and you know the turps are there the the
yield is definitely not but uh that was on the mix phenol wash so I'm hoping if I could dial
in like a good one I could get some what of a respectable wash even if it's like a percent
and a half I'll do it just for the head at least yeah I grabbed some Holy Communion just
because I think everyone did when they heard that you know someone made hash out of it we're like
all right I think he saw some sales go up that week I grabbed the pack too yeah my uh my killer
a fire is too immortal for that for inspiring the culture you know everyone like thought it was
you know yeah it was hard honestly like I fucking went all in with like a whole brand
and then you know I was like shit just try to do it it paid out you know I mean not not financially
which is you know I'm not necessarily like that but it was it was fun to work with so it like
paid out and like fun uh being able to uh experiment with it because every strain I worked with it
there's a different amount to it you know even even on how long you let it grow there's so many
variables on what the yield could be and I believe I believe the haze even though it's a low yielder
the high is better you know it's it's almost like this correlation of from what I can see and this
is just my opinion the better the rosin the lower you and that's just this is my opinion but and
that next might be what I like but let's say I've been running this og for years upon years and at
first I just thought it was me I was like now this is what am I doing wrong and my buddy he
he washed it I don't know if he got a bigger yield than me but this was back in the early 2000s
whatnot um it wasn't about yield then it was just about getting head smoke you know just about
getting anything so we weren't really like but there would be yield strength that yielded more
but you know I wasn't necessarily always I never grew those strings you know I see those strings
see that guy and I'd see those blood and he'd have a hard time well you know doing something with it
so I was always you know about what I wanted to smoke and what other people you know what other
people wanted too so and then early on I found out it was that og so when I started washing that og
it never was a high group of it and so even today when I uh wash the og I could probably fill up
let's say um some some strands maybe I'll fill up uh I get like two ounces out of you know let's
just say out of a couple thousand grams and maybe uh like let's say two three thousand grams I'll
get a couple ounces out of it um og you might be getting one and it's always that way but I'll reach
for the og every time and a lot of the people I know will reach for those you know and uh so maybe
the hay is about half that it's consistently and now I'm getting so accustomed to the hay is like
it's worth it it's so worth it for me I'm willing to take a loss I know it's a financial uh like
you know what the fuck would you do that for but it's at the end of the day it's it's what it's
what you want you know like y'all were talking about earlier like that uncle bob I'm from uh my
family's from the Pittsburgh area up there and when we would go there when I was in the late
late 90s that uncle bob was the go-to if you get that uncle bob that was the shit and nowadays
you know the cat piss smell when you're talking about cat piss that's what I was thinking about
and then you said uncle bob I was like ah he took it there you go he took it he took that you know
that was perfect right because I was getting it from back then and um perfect I was just perfect
you know I don't mean to say some of these guys are like oh the quality's better now I don't
think so I think back then I don't know why but the growers back then in certain little pockets I
was in the Antioch Sacramento uh uh El Dorado um I grew up in Amador County but I ran all
Amador, El Dorado, Calaveras we have my parents own property Calaveras so I ran all through them
back roads that's where I grew up and uh my my family was in Antioch so it was I would get both
sides of the world you know what I mean and for me um I don't know like I didn't we got humble we
but unfortunately we didn't get it as much as Bama weed you know what I mean so when I hear the
guys from humble being like we've never seen Bama weed I'm like oh I wish that was you know because
that's that's what we were blazing was a bunch of Bama weed but my lungs are probably you know
what I mean but the thing is when it comes to good weed nowadays I don't know I don't know what it
is I don't know the weed's different like the the high and everything is totally different than from
back in the 90s like back in the 90s when you smoked dupe you felt your eyelids drop and you
got like the giggles like he ate some mushrooms right um I don't get that from any of the modern
day weed maybe OG the most but any like the exotics and stuff like that forget it it's uh
it's the best looking weed but to me it just has no soul to it right um it barely has any flavor
uh it just looks good that's all I think I mean oh soul I love it I love it I love it that's the
best way because I remember going to like the third floor and whatnot just the early days in
San Francisco and Oakland those dispensaries from like the Berkeley and Shattuck and all these
different you wouldn't you I would drive you know all the way down there just to grab whatever I
could afford just to get me by for the week just to go you know and I should have been growing
myself but it was just so good what you could get down there and the variety of the clones that
you could get and then when I first started growing and bring back to the house it isn't
I mean I remember getting a list of like maybe up there on the third floor maybe 40 or 50 clones
and I remember being like yeah all of them all good everything that everybody's talking about
I still got that piece of paper somewhere around here in the five times magazine
so everything you could buy and I remember you know my dumb ass being like
bringing home like 30 when my room could only hold maybe like 15 you know like at the time you
know so I figured out real quick you know just me being naive going there again buying another
therapy buying another thing I got to know I ran through maybe 100 strains and three grows type of
shit or four or five grows to where I got to kind of see what the market was interested in what they
weren't and what I was interested in real quick and so for me like I don't see it nowadays like
I see I see the purple and I see all that but like even what you guys are talking about the
two three hundred dollar pounds I don't know who the hell's buying these I mean I really don't
because I see I see people and I see where they're from and I know where they're going
but the thing is the question I'm asking is who the hell's smoking that shit I guess because it's
like when when those people actually like I don't know because I get it some purple grown outdoor
to someone that doesn't know purple that's indoor you know what I mean I remember those you know
like if you don't really know so I get it who's getting that but that's when the that's when the
expectations of the buyer will you know meet what the grower really wants because right now there's
a lot of people they're growing and it's all about the money about the money about the money and I
believe in the oakland those days if you remember it supposedly wasn't about the money but there was
a lot more soul into it there was a lot more heart into it those guys the risk was so much more you
know it was I don't know it just seemed like yes the genetics are better maybe they're cleaner
but I feel like there was a lot of heart into it maybe yeah I don't know it didn't seem like
they were pulling it early because it was fired you know like I don't know it's hard to find that
go find that today okay there was a lot less of us back then than there is now and back in those
early like third floor days you remember I mean you know but no other state had any legal anything
or medicinal so I mean we were able to grow anything we wanted and it was still flying
without any question right it was just because like you know back then Cali pretty much had a
giant piece of pie and we covered all of America and you know as more and more states are
opening up and you know the market here sucks now like Oregon whatnot I mean you can grow
blackberries to make more money growing blackberries and you can't weed in California
now you know garlic is a good one yeah right garlic whatever dude yeah all you
mainers getting the garlic trust me herb is worthless I don't want to give it away anymore
but yeah you know I mean back then we and the people that were doing it I feel like
we're more passionate for it because you know like I mean if you were in the wrong
wrong county or wrong part of the state you're still getting fucked you know you might do some
jail time or you're gonna pay a shit ton of money so you know it was a lot of risk and the people
that were doing it I feel like just had a lot more passion I think we're now it's like you know
my fucking grandma's got six plants in her backyard you know everything and a lot of people
you know uncles cousins like I mean you know if I grow a little too much weed I'm trying to give
it away they're like oh dude Mike just gave me a pound or my aunt just gave me a pound you know
it's like it's crazy out here now times have changed let me tell you I never thought this
it would ever be like this never never I knew it was coming down I did not think it was gonna be
like this I think when those cali dispensers when they were buying off these smaller grows too
you could have like a six lighter or an eight lighter and you'd still like be paying your bills
growing like some sfv and selling it for you know over two to the dispensary and so you're
getting these kind of micro climates a really awesome weed because it was like you could hone
in on you know and now yeah automation's the killer of good weed so totally it looks cool
when all those dials are on the wall and it's all feeding everything and I don't know everyone says
so I'd love to hear what your guys speculation is on a lot of like the zaza or gelato I feel like
it's always so pretty and even looks resinous but I've never had a batch that I break up and I can't
roll after because my hands are too sticky like whenever I'm fussing with gelato heads I'm like
dude you're like when have you ever had sticky fingers from your favorite bud like to me that's
a big no-no so I'd love to hear like what you guys think like what is going on with the resin
where it's like how when you said no soul right away I was like the resin is not greasy or sticky
or anything good it's just there like I don't know why but I know I don't like it I don't think the
heads are there I think we're smoking little sticks with a stalk little tiny tricone heads and
you know it's not really there you're not getting that big potency that lung you know filling it up
choking you out you're not I don't think everything should be extremely smooth like all the time it
should be like holy shit like taking in a big butt I I think it's something with the head size I know
that gelato doesn't wash either it's not a hasher so I don't know might be something with and
obviously terpenes like there's a lot of mono terpenes that are in some of those that just
fade out immediately as soon as they get hit with you know some heat they're just gone so
but it's got to be something with those gland heads or something you're just not actually smoking
you know the cannabinoids that you you would on some OG Kush or something
like that. So I can like elaborate on this basically the smaller the tricone ball the head is
the more surface area there is and the more basically there's going to be useless material
on the outside and so what's going to happen is it's going to be harsher and it's going to give
you that drier hit versus you feel like you got that wet trichem when you've got the larger triches
like when you get off of a sativa that's like especially if it's brand new you know it just
was harvested and so there's a huge difference it's way different like but as far as
uh like wedding cake and all the the grunt stuff and all that other stuff I don't I really don't
like them but I do I'll give Verner big credit for being a marketing genius but uh I uh I would
say that stuff is all over the place I don't think anyone can say one is bad or one is good I think
there are so many phenotypes of that now because everyone's crossed it with everything that like
no one can like peg it down at this point so um I want to see what happens with it and I want to
see what you know everyone that's associated with it do well um but I I do I do think that that it's
it's something that people need to look at like with personal preference and um
basically understand is just like you know all the other strains that just keep getting moved over and
over and over again like it's never going to be the original so um that's my little soapbox stand
thing and I'm gonna hit my mic one thing that uh cookies did is it brought seeds
cookies did is it brought seeds back to our baggies again you know
I think everyone that's you know played with it and crossed with it and done work with it I think
we all know you know that's funny no I mean you know I don't want to hate on it um it's
highest respect to the cookie plant I feel like there's the cookie the plant there's cookie the
brand and then there's cookies the actual grower homies behind all the shenanigans in the early
days I feel like it's three different conversations highest respect to the cookie plant that thing is
a brick in my building of life the OGKB is great the OGKB is awesome yeah I remember when that
stuff first came out I was in Colorado working for uh Native Roots uh they're a huge soil grown
uh company and that they had a cut and man that weed everyone knows it was good when it came out
there's some good fucking weed but it's not the greatest genetic to play around with
no it's definitely tough I mean it's it's a herm on a herm right so what can you expect the
more hermits I know what you can expect yeah
it's fun to throw random seeds out in your backyard though you know and watch them grow
that's my favorite part they are I'm a gambling man you never know right uh
so so have you have you fully flowered out any of these uh Cuban lemons or no no no I'm at the
same stage as you guys are I'm about right on right on we're about two feet right now um
so I was I was gonna transplant and wait for 10 days and flip them but I don't do uh I don't grow
indoors anymore I'm pretty much just greenhouse outdoor um electricity here is just uh it's
fucking ridiculous you know what's it up to like high 40s a kilowatt hour now about 80 cents a
kilowatt yeah yeah it's it's fucking ridiculous out here with without without any grow lights or
anything I'm paying a thousand bucks a month I mean without anything cool so so the meter's spinning
the the meter is that breaks my heart yeah it's you're doing that to us right now they're trying
to get us out you still have it easy though in comparison you know like when people complain
I always say that I was like I remember it used to be 37 over there so I'm not trying to hear it
I never looked up what it is now I was always kind of scared that's crazy yeah yeah they've uh
they've definitely gone next level so so yeah no more gorgeous uh greenhouse and it's one of those
like light deck greenhouses where it covers itself how many are you running through to take a look
uh I got 20 of those and then I got the blue dreams and the GMOs and then I didn't have very
many of the gelato 33s um so I sprouted all of those uh just to see what happens you know
as much as on the cookies stuff like I I do like that gelato plant just from how easy it is to grow
and um I mean it fucking tastes good it looks great it does taste good like I gotta say that
for the second day it doesn't get me high for at all but uh you know for a couple days yeah I mean
the same thing with blue dream if I smoke that for a few days it doesn't work for me anymore I've all
been uh OG Kush works every time all the time so what are you seeing in your plants uh are you
seeing like some symmetry because are you seeing dynamic growth no it looks like the uh the haze
is pretty much taken over on it they're all growing pretty good um not not stretching as
much as the haze so there's a little bit of that and then only like difference I'm seeing right now
is some of them got a little fatter leaves and some of them got a little skinnier leaves but
they're all growing about the same size the same height same nose lengths and whatnot you know
yeah that's cool they seem uh generally symmetric for everyone which is cool you know it should be
yeah that that hate he's uh in my in my experience has always just been dominant
female wise and I've used a couple different ones and they've always just kind of taken over
I even have one with the Kush cleaner and Kush cleaners jack um and the whole reason
the whole reason I made the seeds was don't be defensive
I'm not a big fan of uh that that flavor but the male that I selected was um the frostiest
and the highest testing male that I've ever come across right and I would grow thousands of these
out those seeds every year I take the males I reverse them all and then I'll take them to the
labs and they would tell me you know which one was the most potent and then so like you know
every year I'd find a new one the last one that I found it was at uh it was like a 20 or something
percent but it doesn't sound much but when you're testing a male plant and you reverse it you're
just you ever seen that green spoon plant yeah I grew that out it grows crazy little notes right
that's what when you reverse a male plant looks like but they're the little calyxes are full
seeds because it pollinates itself um and you know there's just not very much for them to test
so the testings are never crazy high but if you're like think about a female if it was an actual bud
I swear it would test like what you normally see um anyhow like all the crosses I made of that
uh with the Kush Cleaner I ended up anything that Kush Cleaner took over flavor-wise I never
released it I ended up feeding my chickens all those seeds but uh everything that the female
took over flavor-wise those are the ones that are released and I got that Malawi NL5 paste
that I got from Fletch years ago um that one also took over the Kush Cleaner flavor
um the only only thing really that Kush Cleaner did was just add potency and some frost
which is you know with the seeds that I released the other crosses that I had made and I gave to
the chickens it was just Kush Cleaner Jack Smell you know but you know you think about it it's not
around that much anymore and all these like new all the new exotic again they don't know what that
is right they're all used to fucking cookies um cookies and and Kush so I don't know I love Jack
I just don't like it more than like two joints right I won't say a year but like summer winter
let's smoke a couple joints of it I love it but like after that I don't like so when I first
started growing for the first like five years I grew nothing but train wreck every day
a all day I can't see you that
I did smoke your connection's starting to frog out a little bit
so that means I'm forming out here pretty bad you're back now you were getting hyped up the
computer couldn't take it
well so where did I lose you guys at
uh about 15 Jack Terps are the best that you've ever had I think you said something you were
saying in the early days for like I was saying uh I grew train wreck for five years straight
maybe even longer uh so that's all that's all I knew and smoked and uh you know it's like eating
the same cereal day in day out we never got that a lot it was already played out by the time the
east coast was able to get any train wreck no when I was in Colorado we had a lot of it but
never really hit the east coast if I mentioned train wreck or Jack to anyone from the east coast
they cringe real fast
yeah the lemon tree from uh the the different smokes I've had that is one of my favorite like
of the lemon Terps you know like certain OGs that have that little lemon edge to it I like those
ones as well on the exhale you get a nice little subtle lemon with all the other complexities but
I'm really really hopeful on this cross if it could have like my idea in an ideal world
have an overpowering lemon inhale and then just that like exhale that's just got that hazy spicy
goodness just a weird complex goodness on the exhale so that would be ideal right though you
know your boss but we'll see what happens but the the lemon tree is by far my also my favorite
citrusy like our you know they call it lemon but it's like California orange I get a little tangy
yeah yeah tangy right um and I definitely get that on the green or
that all the citrus flavor herbs that I've tried in the past lemon tree is by far the strongest
and probably one of the tastiest out of them and best looking out of all of them too
and grows like shit yeah and it grows like shit compared to all of the other ones it has to when
you see it and it's these small buds and it takes so much effort to get them you're like you better
be loud and it it is though oh yeah I have a lemon yeah I have a lemon party it's like a lemon tree
lemon tree crossing CSI okay yeah I actually found yeah it's it's there it's got that little
diesel-y but it's just oh man it screams and I was almost like do we really need it and then the
feedback starts coming in where everyone's like yeah you better not don't get rid of that thing
man yeah it's fucking delicious mouthwatering delicious yeah well if anyone in the chat has
any questions for the big homie or about this cross and probably what do you guys think maybe
we'll wrap it up pretty soon yeah yeah I'm gonna pop my in a week so mine will be when are you
flipping mine or yeah I'll flip mine in a week I'm about 10 days 10 days oh you're on mute coastal
here there you go oh you've muted yourself you got to do it well let me ask any of you guys use
leds yeah are any of you guys flowering under those or using oh you are cool yeah yeah so the
facility switched over now I had one room hbs one led but so these will get run under it right
on I have no experience with leds I've always uh like I mean it was just maybe like 10 years ago I
switched over to the double-ended bolts which are fantastic double-endeds are the best they kick ass
I've had my highest terpene um reports always come from my double-ended right so it's kind of
goes to show you they're they still kick ass but um I mean the leds now from 10 years ago or night
and day and you can realize that because now they're the same wattage you know it's like yeah
you need a thousand watts of led to you know make a thousand watts of hbs but I think you get more uh
color expression from the leds I think it can pull out some different terpenes but um
and you can get I won't say you can get a higher yield your quality can be better uh
no I mean you could also yeah especially with like like I'm running a 630 watt uh I feel like
I can crank those right away to 100 not that they say leds it matters it's pulling out the full
spectrum but for that canopy uh to be able to crank the led right away all the way up
seems to help uh and but then back and way down at the end like last couple weeks then
I was just gonna ask you that yeah way back down again or you'll you'll take them too far you'll
start having them harden off you'll start getting a little horns on them and shit so
oh all right you think you're with the spectrum at all or do you just lower like dim it essentially
these are just yeah just dim it these are just full spec and they have the you know
these are just full spec and they have the you know the red ostrums on it I think the the far
reds um they'll you need way more dehus in your room so when you yeah you gotta probably double
up your dehu if you if you switch your whole room to led from hbs well um that's the problem where
everyone screws up because they're not transpiring like they you don't have those big balls of the
sun you know sucking up all your so a lot of people mold out their whole room and you can have
uh you could be hitting really awesome vpd with your leds and just be growing these giant top nugs
and that's it looks awesome but it's never good for indoor and the light spread is worth it it
like it the light spread in it of itself like I'm running a thousand watts of uh led now instead of
a thousand watt hps and um I'm only running it at uh 50 and the plants don't need anymore because
you only feed them as much nutrient as they need and you only feed them as much light as they need
otherwise you over stress them and uh I I feel like these leds are actually really really good
the ones right in front of me are actually a joke um I had a banana plant here
yeah do what I was letting you spit your shit and I was gonna talk a hell of shit back what
do you got some blurples yeah so I got some shitty ass so I got real I got real grow lights and then
in my grow room I got like shitty ass grow lights just for like taking care of like my
sugar cane and my uh banana plant uh my wife killed the other banana oh oh she told me not
those blurples killed that banana tree you know
you just gave her an excuse it's always wifey's fault
you just gave her an excuse
but yeah they're the shitty there's a little 30 fucking uh amazon lights are pieces of shit don't
buy them buy real lights I in my room I run spider farmer like uh f 1000s or something like that
and they're on a controller with uh you know all sorts of stuff that I can just you know manipulate
like at will so it's a lot better than using the hps like that just one of the things I did have
was sketchy as shit I was running hps and um one of the cords was acting up and it was right in my
it was right in my cable uh like cable tv cord was coming into the house and the cable people
wanted to come in the motherfucking house and I was like oh hell so I don't so I had to break down
an entire grow room back before it was legal and and I had to break the whole grow room down
and then like take everything out like while I'm like a sitting dickheads like looking at my
board and I'm just like what is it and he's like oh it just wasn't like tightened enough
it was it was that simple and I'm just like oh my god I went through all of the lights coming out
the chimney like the bc days dude they're probably like you know they were zooming around and I
hear his day like all of bc four out of five houses they're like let's go see what's doing
with his power yeah you got no oh my god everyone else does yeah
much respect man that's fucking that's a good joke
highest respect to immortal for not skipping a beat he's been freaking rocking and rolling the
whole time I know it's a bunch of worker bees here he ain't playing
anyone else get any final thoughts or anything to say about the plants or
I got mine I don't think I said before mine have been flipped into flower for two days so I'll
start getting turps I guess the earliest I really jumped the gun on this one the backups don't even
have roots yet but uh I'm confident after you said the lemon tree doesn't root the best either
I might have to just throw them right back into veg but I tried to take a couple of each so
we'll see what happens you can always just re-veg one back out yeah everyone becomes a
master reveger totally at some point so here's my five five second hot tips on re-veging light
water don't keep them on the dry side foliar as soon as the buds are not gonna rot light amino
acids not much other food compost tea you know any biological and amino acids boom they pop right
back out of it uh foliar sprays as soon as they won't rot like as soon as all that rotten shit's
off of there foliar the hell out of them even sometimes I'll just foliar the top of the pot
to keep it like super dry give them a little moisture they bounce right back most of them
most of mine uh I say um I'll throw the whole mom back in or whatever the the plant to revege it but
what I like to do is take a cut so I'll take a cutting even if it's like eight nine weeks you
know and then throw that in my aero cloner and wait for it to get just ridiculous roots coming
off that thing even though the top still just looks like a bud totally that seems to be the
best the fastest switch around and then 24 zero with your lights you know just whatever led lights
and just total light no darkness I've gotten them to come out of it pretty quick and get those new
shoots coming out but what's your typical window like to start getting like that early funky growth
like start to show like what's like a typical like I mean that depends how how late you took it
you're talking all if it's eight or nine weeks I feel like that's a month for me minimum it takes
some weeks it's a month for me five weeks yeah it's a month yeah and I've had I have had some
where I've waited like two three months and you know finally finally they popped out
I'll pull one out I just reveged one it took me a little while but uh yeah they they actually
like it if it's uh if you're like week three you'll get the bushiest fucking plant if you put
that back in I know people actually do that on purpose like as a strategy yeah I mess up and
that's why I have to but uh I have a hundred moms so it's different genetics so it's a little
and I got three of yours in there seven seven oh seven I got the what do I got that pineapple tie
I saw some monsters monsters out of those nice yeah she's reveged I just took off all the
crap off her super healthy yeah so this is uh that's uh three weeks from getting her out of
the cloner and so she's all back to normal now basically people take cuts off her this is probably
that's what she looked like there's a little top coming off that one
some candied oranges I forgot about it's always that best one like you said when you're breeding
like uh you do the stem rub and everything and then it's this one in the corner right for some
reason it's like why are you the I don't have a clone of you why are you the best one damn it now
you gotta yeah totally but as long as you save it right yeah what's your nutrition game like
nutrition game like on that one uh paper mill like what are you giving that you put it in cocoa
after it's all rooted up and what's your nutrition game moisture level light intensity xyz
yeah so just clone light still uh fully blast it so it's drinking like 2.7 2.8 ec
so and I throw that in my easy cloner too so my easy cloners yeah running about 2.8 ec
at about 6 ph and I don't even change out the water anymore I just let it rock in there for
two weeks I keep my grow room at like my my bedrooms at like 73 and I got a lot of air
movement a lot of ac going so I yeah the veg water you like a little bit of hypochlorous acid
you like keeping it that cool with the leds huh yeah my flower rooms my flower rooms are at 70 to
72 but I like my I don't want my it's indoor I don't want my night temps so my night temps will
go to 68 or something I don't like those big dips yep if you want pm you could dip way out
go for a big dip and then you'll be dipping at the end yeah I like about the same range but way
warmer I like like 80 to 75 at night for most of the flower like I like it like on the warm side
for most genetics you know like so that's interesting and that's what hps and cmh I'm
doing a mix of yeah I would still keep it at like from hps I would do like yeah it was still like
74 degrees 73 degrees for my rooms but yeah I think the turfs your yield suffers a little well
not even a little some people would get pretty upset about their their yield loss but your
terpenes are there and your flower quality like your whole canopy I feel the water
I I err on the side of running it cold as hell uh during flowering during the night time if you can
and run as much fan or win whatever you can get to um beat on the plants as possible
I find that makes more frost um it like the trikes fucking just pop out with with that
and um and and I've heard old heads say the same things that uh like yeah if you if you get
the plants where they're getting hit real hard at night with that wind like with the cold
it'll written into dryness like the real low humidity that will really bring out um
the maximum amount of what you're looking for from the plant but uh you know everyone has their
own way and it depends on what you're looking for like what kind of crop steering you're doing
what sort of stresses you're doing like I've had same genetics in the same garden where all the
environments are the same except the nutrition and you wouldn't believe that they were cuttings
from the same plant you know so I don't know there's there's different goals for everyone
so it's like some people want you know cannabinoids some people want tarps some people
want weight some people just want a pretty plant just to grow so I think it's like you can't say
definitively you know it's like I listen on like you guys like cold stress like I like heat stress
I'm thinking like we're all steering the plant like in different ways with like just enough
stress in the directions we like it has is kind of how I'm interpreting not necessarily how the
plant wants how we want the plant to get it you know I don't like bud rot so that's why I do it
so I've had zero mildews in this facility um and I equate it towards how I run it how but I also
have like you know there's nine industrial dehus in that room there's there's three ACs that aren't
running because they're backups for the other four ACs so the redundancies are huge and I think
that's where people we talked about with LEDs different things you have to do but you got to
have tons of redundancies you got to have something there that's it's ready to catch up when something
breaks but I don't know we work so hard for the plants I just don't want to see it rot so I just
it seems like the cold cold temps without a lot of swing and then you're at least getting your
cold temps at night it's just not that big I don't think the swing I to me I don't think it
does anything it's it's stress but maybe better for outdoors but outdoors is another beast in
Colorado I mean the swings in October it was 45 at night and it was 78 during the day so
and it's not like you can do that indoors outdoors is a whole nother beast yeah
they really acclimate it's it's insane what they can do outside
yeah but most of most of the uh most of my heavily worked varieties were all
geared for outdoor and made outdoor um you know uh as when I was growing I needed something I
finished hella early I needed something to finish mid-season something finished late just because
I didn't have enough dry space for everything and uh you know I did sour for years and years
and years and then just got just got bored of it and I was starting to lose the love and that's
actually when I started planting seeds I had a shit ton of seeds that I would bought them
throughout the years and threw them all out and you know just doing that not so much pheno hunt
just uh seeing what was what and then you know you buy a pack of seeds from somebody and they
just got this description you're all fucking pumped up about it throw them out you know you
got 10 fucking totally different looking plants and none of them are looking like the description
um half the time I couldn't sell the shit I would just chop it down and burn it
you know that at that point I was like you know what I can do better for myself and that's when
I started playing around and making my own seeds um what really tipped me to the edge was uh I ain't
gonna mention the guy's name but I bought 10 packs of this guy's seeds he claimed he had made the
OG the F6 or F7 and every seed is gonna come out OG and dude the worst fucking weed I've ever
grown in my life this stuff was completely trash I I was like dude I'm done I'm never buying seeds
again you fucking ruined it for me does that company have two words that both have the same
letter like two words what's that it sure does yeah man that's a boo for sure
I'm so done those are the last fucking seeds I've ever bought
yo that's great actually then that booth that booth fugazi cannabis seeds inspired the big homie
to do bigger and better things like that's actually some positive I'm gonna take from
that now when I think of it when I think of that knucklehead that chucklehead
we're right on all right you guys ready to get to it this is fucking a pleasure man
it's all fun sweet yeah much much appreciation maybe we'll try to check in and like you said
you're flipping in 10 days maybe we'll try to check in in like a month or so and we're all
kind of in like early and mid flower and then maybe we'll check in again like after harvest or
during harvest and stuff do a smoke report and all that kind of like you know see what we find
fuck yeah hell yeah yeah much appreciation for everyone for joining thanks fcp and uh we'll be
back again and again big ups to uh the big homie for letting us uh ride with these genetics big
ups to the fellas for winning those trophies we'll see you guys next time everyone stay there
