Come on in.
Where's Chad?
Chad's very shy right now.
There he is.
Guess what?
I don't have anything set up.
I just have to mute my music.
I was making sure it's all going good.
You guys are doing good.
Rock on.
What you guys up?
This guy, you just came in on the buzzer.
Now you got to-
Feel free to, oh my gosh, we're live too.
Yes, and now you got to say,
you got to do something great
or you got to sing us something special before.
Oh, Chad.
So just quickly, I was thinking you could kind of
go around the, so Cam,
eventually you guys will never see me
because Cam down there will be a pro
at the technical, on the techniques.
That's a big time.
But so I think conceptually,
it's kind of like Jimmy can give some background
on who he is and what you guys are all about to grow.
And then he can kind of go around the horn of like,
where I think for a breeder, it's cool to know,
oh, I mean, right now we're in the winter.
So my assumption is everyone's mostly growing indoors.
But like in the summertime, it would be,
I'm growing indoors in hydro in my basement.
I'm growing outdoors in a greenhouse at 1800 feet,
right off the coast in California.
I'm growing in Maine where the seasons are short.
I'm growing in LA where like different geographies,
different microclimates, different grow styles.
Everybody has a different level of growing experience.
Some person could be like,
I've grown like three times in my life.
I'm more of a novice and I'm going to be in for a wild ride
because this is like a double black diamond cultivar.
Don't you worry, I got a pin down list for these guys.
They're not getting away from me until this is over.
My only thing is div, if I understand,
you got to bounce early.
So when you go around the horn, maybe you start with div.
For sure.
Yeah, it is 6.45 I think I'll be out of here.
So not too early.
You got it.
So anyway, cam with all that context, take it away.
With the weight of the FCP on my shoulders.
So Jimmy, we are here because we are all excited
to grow the whisker biscuit, man.
So tell us a little something about the whisker biscuit.
Why'd you choose the whisker biscuit
and what's going on with it?
What is this gorilla biscuit?
And tell us a little something about the Vietnamese black
that goes into it as well.
Yeah, so this, it started as a collab
kind of with Two-Tone Willie a few years ago.
And he had the gorilla biscuit black cut
from Seeds of Compassion.
And the gorilla biscuit is, if I'm remembering properly,
is the turpentine cut of Sensi Star hit with Star Dog Male.
And really a chemical gas, stout plant, big, big flowers,
real dense.
And just made for an interesting opposite
of the Vietnamese, which is really feminine plant.
They get big and bushy, but the real narrow leaves
and the flowers are more delicate
and more open structure, real wispy.
So we did this a few years ago.
And then I finally, I think two and a half years ago,
I finally dug into a few.
And I was like, holy shit, these are cool.
The gorilla biscuit is really resinous
and has that chemical gas kind of kick
that a lot of people really like.
And of course the Vietnamese is really opposite
under the spectrum, both in effect
and just the whole structure and style of the plant
and finishing time and everything.
So the F1 hybrids even showed a lot of the different
a decent bit of variation.
And what I really liked about it was that you got that,
that resin basically just transferred
through all the plants.
I mean, there's some that weren't as,
weren't as frosty and everything, but very resinous.
And a little bit, even in the heavy Vietnamese leaners,
you still got some of that kind of turpentine kick too,
that nose burning, kind of bang to it.
So I ran a few more and then ran a few more.
And so now we're on the F2s right now,
as well as some out crosses that I tossed you guys,
because now that I've seen, you know,
the biscuit itself quite a bit,
let's take a look at how it crosses as well.
So for a treat, man, these are,
I haven't really seen many long flowering
kind of gals that have that,
you know, that kind of gassy kick and just,
you know, the biscuit kind of tones it down
just a little bit.
And so this just came out to be a really nice,
really interesting cross and a line that I'm going to work
in two directions, just because they were so good
either way, the biscuit leaners, you know,
had just a little bit of maybe like, you know,
that lemongrass thing, that citrusy,
maybe a little black pepper.
And, but still, you know, they were just caked
and just big fucking gnarly colas and, you know,
pretty fair finishing time, you know, I mean,
people can get in and out 75, 80 days,
they don't mind for the most part.
So I think it's just a, it's a really accessible line
for, you know, for either end,
whether you want something that's going to be done
relatively faster and have more of that,
you know, more of that narcotic effect,
but like just enough of the Vietnamese
to, you know, keep you from falling asleep.
Like it's like narcotic, but you're awake.
So that's what I really dig about that.
Like you got to get through it, right?
Well, I think what caught my eye the most about this cross
is, you know, I'm a big fan of old school stock
and stuff like that.
And we know, you know, a lot of Neville's work
was the NL and the hash plants,
basically across to any thin leaf that they had at the time.
So this one caught my eye,
cause it's like, it's, you know,
essentially in that kind of realm,
you're looking at something very resonant,
put to something with a thin leaf, with a flavor,
that long lasting kind of flowering time,
generally kind of adds a flavor.
Well, that being said,
so it sounds like you already did run it.
That was going to be one of my questions.
Did you already actually run this yourself?
What kind of style did you run this in?
Did you do this?
Obviously it sounds like you ran it outdoor,
like most of your stuff.
This is all, was this in the ground
or did you do this in pots or?
Well, I've tested them now over the course of
about a year and a half.
So I've done some indoor, some outdoor.
And, you know, sometimes those, you know,
like the Vietnamese and the ties and things,
they can get a little bitchy inside,
but these are real solid.
I mean, even in smaller pots,
even when they're, you know,
multiple plants per pot, right?
So if you got, you know,
two or three females per plant or per pot,
they didn't get too squirrely with being root bound,
which, you know, I find sometimes they, you know,
the bitchy ones, like they will do all right
if you give them plenty of root space, you know,
plenty of foot room, but these are really solid.
And outdoors, you know, of course the narrow leaf ones
get really fucking big.
And yeah, just, I think there's something in there
for everybody, which is, you know,
why we're gonna try and, you know,
I'm working on both the shorter end ones
and then what you guys have is the longer flowering ones.
Cause there's just so much good shit in there.
And even like the 50, 50 phenos that were, you know,
just a solid mix of the two are just so fucking good.
Yeah, it's gonna be, I think there's gonna end up being
a couple of different versions of this release
by the way it looks and by like my smoke test so far,
we're just, you know, and then every once in a while,
there's one that's just really, really racy
or really, really heady and just, you know,
couch lock kind of stony.
So yeah, good stuff, man.
Well, that's with everyone being here now,
it looks like, looks like we actually
we might be missing two.
Let's start figuring out how people are gonna start producing
this whisker biscuit.
And I wanna hear what people are most excited about.
Are you more excited about trying to get these crazy
long flower and sativers?
Are you looking at these short flower
and whisker or gorilla biscuit phenos?
But more so let's start with your styles
and kind of how you grow, you know,
what do you do to kind of get things started off?
And we're gonna start with our buddy, Div over here
since we're kind of short on time.
And what part of the country?
Okay, yep.
Okay, so I'm from Washington,
upper Northwest part of Washington on Whidbey Island.
And it's about two hours from Seattle, north of Seattle.
I'm gonna be growing in living soil right now.
The plants that I just transplanted in the pots
are on there.
I think this is the 18th round in the same soil.
So the whisker biscuit will probably be on the 19th
or the 20th like flowering cycle in the soil.
Growing in a couple of 30 gallons in a two by four space.
I'm not the biggest,
I'm not gonna have the biggest plants or anything crazy,
but if I dedicate a full 30 gallon, you know,
that's I can usually produce pretty good amount
out of that little space.
Been growing for,
I think this is the fifth year I've been growing,
April, 2017.
It's when I popped my first seeds.
Nice.
Keep learning, keep growing.
I got an indoor garden with a bunch of herbs and cabbage
and a bunch of random stuff, peppers.
That's killer.
Well, do you have any of those veggies
in your cannabis garden as well?
Or are they kind of a separate thing?
I have, I've grown carrots with cannabis.
It's really easy.
They don't really seem to affect each other
the way they grow.
And yeah, I wanted to grow like peppers along with the weed,
but I don't want it to either want to take over
or block each other from light.
So yeah, there's the cabbage a couple of days ago.
It's getting really big for indoor,
like under like really old LED lights.
Oh, that's killer, man.
Yeah, one of my buddies, he grows the ghost reapers
and he got me to boil a bunch down
and he said it's the best IPM.
And like, I went and sprayed all my plants and veg.
Dude, I was like in the room crying.
Like I was like, I think I killed the spider.
Touch the habanero and like touch my mouth.
You can feel it.
You can just feel the essence on you.
Yup, yup.
Well, that's really cool, man.
So it sounds like since you're in the living soil situation,
do you do any like top dressings,
amendments or anything like that?
Or?
I got worms in the pots, beneficial bugs.
Right now I just laid out a bunch of wood chips.
I bought a wood chipper on Amazon a couple of months ago.
So I've been using that, really liking that
with the, you know, just stuff from the outside,
mulching it up, putting it on top of the soil.
Yeah, I made seeds last round.
That's the last round
that they're showing pictures of right now.
Oh, wow.
That's gorgeous, man.
That's a fully seeded branch of meat breath
that I've had for about four years or so.
Oh, wow.
And is that, I assume that's the original
thug pug meat breath?
Yeah, it's a, I popped the pack in like 20,
late or early 2018, I think, something like that.
Awesome.
So that's been around for a little while then.
Sounds like something you really enjoy.
Yeah.
That's the only thing I've kept around that long, yeah.
Nice, nice.
So it sounds like we're gonna have some expressions
of this plant.
They're gonna run a little bit longer
than what it sounds like from the meat breath.
Are you excited to see thin leaf and longer profiles?
It's not usually like something
that people have been going to,
but now that we're starting to see a lot more
sativas quote unquote, you know, coming to the picture,
man, it's beautiful sight to see us being able
to have a chance to do this kind of thing.
So I'm personally, this is my first time
being able to work with the Vietnam black.
Like I couldn't be more tickled.
Yeah, I've grown a pack of Foco Gold
a long time, a couple years ago,
and it was, it didn't work out that well.
I was using the blue mat system
and a couple of the drippers dried out.
So I just had this big dying yellow bush inside the tent.
It didn't produce a whole lot.
So this round I'll pay more attention.
If I get a sativa leaner, then I'm happy with it.
Yeah, it'll be cool to see what everyone else gets.
It's kind of like a, like Peter said,
it's kind of like a book club.
So it's kind of cool to see how the plant you're growing
came from the same mom at the same time
that these other people are growing it.
Yeah, absolutely.
So it sounds like you switched that blue mat system out.
What type of water system are you using
for this living soil now?
I'm still gonna use the blue mat.
Last round, I just for like, didn't use it at all.
I let it dry out and just hand watered the whole round
just to see.
It's really nice hand watering too.
I think the plants turned out the same.
I'm just gonna leave the blue mat to do the work for me.
I just, last round I got lazy.
I had a bunch of, like I grew a living mulch.
So I had a bunch of, you know, clover and grasses
and things like that.
So it just made it difficult to go in there
and play with the blue mats.
Yeah, absolutely.
I like the blue mat system, but one thing,
I can't stand cleaning that bucket, man.
Like getting those little rubber lines out and all that.
So I pretty much only use my blue mat line
if I'm going away on vacation.
I don't trust people going in the garden anymore.
So I'll fill the bucket up and let it feed.
Yeah, that's a couple of rounds ago.
I was growing zinnias in the tent with them too.
I've grown calendula and zinnia and cosmos
and just adds a little color to the garden as well.
Extra color.
Absolutely, and the petals too,
may make a really good top mulch.
Mycelium loves that stuff.
It's pretty much like sugar coated cookies for them.
Extra color for the beneficial bugs too.
Yep, yep, absolutely.
Well, cool, man.
So we're super excited to see a living soil version of this.
I'll be doing an organics version myself.
I think I'll be doing a super soil.
I don't know if I'll be going right into the living soil bed.
So it'd be really cool to see a different version
of organics going at the same time.
Oh, and it looks like you're about to put something tasty
in the turpin, what you got?
Oh yeah, this is the meat breath frozen
that I made a couple, like a week ago.
Yum, yum, yum.
Fresh frozen.
It only yielded, didn't yield almost,
it's like 1.85% to hash.
So not good.
You don't wanna keep washing that
and you're not gonna make any money doing that.
No, no, but sometimes.
So it's good, it's worth it.
Ace, I'm gonna say sometimes it's just worth it though.
You know, if that's your flavor, that's your flavor,
you know, sweet deal.
Well, so we're gonna move on and see who is actually,
let's see, Miss Lisa.
Are you excited to grow some Worcester biscuits?
Oh, absolutely, absolutely.
So what type of style?
I'm a novice grower,
but I've been growing vegetables for outside.
I'm also a master gardener.
I was gonna say, she's not a novice grower,
she's a master gardener.
But the last time I actually grew pot myself
would have been in the early 80s.
So that was a long time ago for me.
Oh wow.
Haylides and foil on the walls.
And yeah, that was pretty cool.
I'll tell you, it's not much different now.
Yeah.
So I'll probably be growing in,
trying to do some living soil.
We're trying to work on that.
And even in the pots, Skylar's got,
my son has got some yarrow growing in
and with one of his plants.
And I'll probably just work on the living soil thing
and use some, a little bit of native sediment
probably in there.
And, you know, see how it goes.
You know, being that it's got that land race type
of strain in it, I kind of think that
I don't want to start out giving it too much good stuff,
but it'll end up probably top dressing.
We're gonna probably, Skylar's gonna help me
because we're both here and he's growing
and it's his tent.
But I'll probably start him out in the tent
and I'm wagering on a nice warm February
like we always get.
I'll be moving them outside into a little greenhouse thing.
So we'll see how that goes.
Awesome.
Man, so greenhouse setting,
are you gonna do light deprivation
or are you guys gonna go ahead and let it run full term?
Um, well, you know, we're gonna be growing,
Skylar's gonna be growing a bunch of stuff.
So we're gonna have to wait and see it this time
and see how the weather goes.
It's been raining forever and ever and ever and ever.
Nice day off, you know, a couple of days of rain off,
but we've got a roof that leaks.
So we've had to move some stuff around.
And so I'll keep you updated when we decide
if we're gonna go full term.
It depends on what the weather's gonna be doing
outside I think.
Sure, sure.
So it sounds like-
Those things will be monsters.
Yeah, right?
That'd be good.
I wouldn't mind if it leaned either way, to be honest.
A little of both would be fine too.
Well, so that's what I was gonna ask.
Well, since you've grown in the 80s,
you've probably had more experience
with some of these more thin leaf varieties.
They get a little bit taller than the rest of us.
What was one that you've worked with
that you think would actually kind of remind you
of maybe the Vietnamese black?
That was such a long time ago
and another chapter in my life
that I couldn't actually tell you really,
but I know they were the thin leaf type.
We didn't really get into...
The last plant we had before we had to move,
you know, that was back, I was in the Bay Area back then.
And I was pretty young and we were kind of living fast
and, you know, so we had to go.
I had a big seedling and the last picture in my mind
is that it was maybe six inches tall at the most
and the leaves were probably like this.
Massive, holy moly.
Never had to finish it, so that was a drag.
You probably had yourself a tie or something like that, huh?
Yeah, that was, yeah.
Awesome, well, I'm super excited
that you get to run some more thin leaves.
I mean, who would have known that?
Again, I think it's super cool
that thin leaves are finally coming back,
that people get to enjoy them
in the full way that they should.
You know, I think for a long time,
we've been hidden indoors
when we've had to run these short flowering things,
so it's a beautiful thing
that we're gonna get to run something super beautiful.
I think it'll be some nice medicinal value to it too.
Absolutely, so with that being said, Chef Alex,
we've already kind of seen you
on a few other test groups here,
but for the people that haven't heard much from you,
what can we expect to hear from your style, bro?
And what are you gonna do with the whiskered biscuits?
Thank you for having me back.
So like Lisa and Div,
I'm going to be growing in soil as well.
Not quite in a living soil bed, but pots,
probably five gallon pots.
I'm gonna be using Build-A-Soil
mixed with Organics Mechanics,
Cocoa Professional Growers Blend
that has biochar in it as well.
And I'll probably be top dressing
and feeding microbes as well as,
or adding microbes as well as labs and vocation.
Yeah, I remember hearing you talk about the neem
and caranja when you were on the other group there.
You think we're gonna go heavy on the neem this round
or we've got a plant that might get a little bit taller
on you since it has a little bit of a higher nitrogen value?
Because I'm a neem guy myself.
I like neem cake because I just think it helps
keeps a lot of the pest at bay
without having to sacrifice and using oil.
And I do like to also bubble up my neem
and use it as a feed or I'll spray it as well.
But having such a high nitrogen value
and having a height limit,
I'm not sure if I'm gonna go so high in a nitrogen rich.
What are your thoughts on using the neem
and caranja for this?
So I did dip on that conversation a little bit,
but that was actually John M who uses both the neem
and caranja.
I've used the oil a little bit from time to time,
but I'm probably gonna stick with the compost.
Depending on what I pull out of the pack
or which way we're leading here,
I'm gonna try to take some cuts
and put them outside in my garden as well.
So if we're putting a...
Yeah, so I was excited about the Vietnamese black portion
of this for some energetic,
some like spicy herbal turps there that you can add.
This is fine.
My garden's full of gas right now.
That's not a complaint.
Like we were talking earlier about smoke,
I'm smoking on dozy and not get like himmo cush
and chem D.
All the gassy piney stuff that you can have, right?
That really turned me on about the gorilla biscuits
with the turps.
I'm like, yeah, but we don't really see a lot of that,
you know, narrow leaf going around.
And I think the last couple of things that I was growing
that was narrow leaf, let me see.
It was a Milano Valley from India.
And then a couple of years ago that was a Durban poison.
I tried to finish outside.
Here I'm in Maine, so that didn't work out very well.
Yeah, I ended up having to cut that down for music.
Now is that from more of the cold
or do you guys get more of kind of a wet season up there?
I know it's probably a mix of both, but which one got you
there?
Well, there's a lot of mountainous farmland
and that's not where I am.
I'm right on the coast, Southern Maine, Portland.
So it can be a challenge sometimes.
Yeah, but I found different varieties that work well
and I've had a lot of tests with a lot of different
organic techniques, which is good.
So I'm excited to see hopefully some interesting
unique turps come back around from this
that I can maybe get to work in my environment.
I have a little greenhouse that I'm gonna have set up
as well, so I can either omit that
or have that as an option.
Oh, awesome.
Yeah.
And is that what you're thinking about,
maybe taking the clones outside and trying them out there
or were you thinking about taking the seedlings themselves
out there and using the clones as the indoor projects?
I've seen some people say that they would prefer
to take a seed out into a harsher environment
just because of the taproot giving a little bit
more strength, but I've also seen,
it also can be bullshit.
So totally, did you have a plan for that at all?
Or are you just kind of just running it by seed now
and then taking the cuts outside just because
of the timeline?
Yeah, it's a good question you asked that
because I had originally just thought that I'd take a cut,
flower the seedling out inside just because of space
restraints and time where we're getting this started
as opposed to where I can get stuff outside
in a few months.
So I think the clone route might be the best option
for me unless I can really prune that plant back,
depending, but I think we're gonna go with a clone.
I do like flowering the seedlings out,
if I time them appropriately.
Yeah, you really get strong plants seeded out.
Your audio is kind of cutting in and out.
That joint's getting to it, it must be really good.
But yeah, that's killer to hear that you'll be able
to test it as a seed and a clone.
I think that's something that Jemmy should actually
probably be pretty excited to see,
like the difference between how a clone would run
versus a seed.
Because there's always just the stipulation
that seed plants are a little bit stronger,
but then also clones always run faster
because they're already more established plant.
So it's kind of like, what's your goal, I guess?
So it'd be really cool to see a clone
versus a seed version of it.
Especially with the longer flowering ones too,
because when you're flowering from clone,
you know that that thing is sexually mature
and it might trigger a little faster
than your seed plant.
But yeah, it'll be nice to see the difference
and it'll be nice to see more organic stuff,
because I ran a lot of them in cocoa,
and well, heavily amended cocoa.
So there's lots of shit in there, but it's still not,
it's not what I would call anything living or soil.
So no, it's good to have some variety
and a little greenhouse action out in Maine.
And you'll be able to tell,
like if you wanna make space in your greenhouse,
you'll be able to tell which ones
are probably gonna finish on their own, even up in Maine.
You should cross the finish line, no problem.
And then some of the more narrow gals,
maybe put them in the greenhouse to finish up.
But yeah, they'll get plenty big, that's for sure.
You'll need to do some pruning to keep them under control.
That's killer advice.
Well, with that being said,
since the first step to it all
is we gotta put these suckers in the ground
and get them started.
Div, what's gonna be your method of starting these seeds,
man, what do you like to do?
Are you a paper towel guy?
Are you a drop them in the cup with some water, peroxide?
How do you do these?
Just because, I mean, the soil's really alive.
I have it stored in the garage.
I'm probably gonna start the seeds in a cup with water
just until they crack and you can see the taproot.
And then from there,
I might put them in a towel from there too.
Might put them in a towel,
get the taproot to be inch long or so, and then bury it.
Just so that way I know it's started fully
and I don't have to worry about it.
I don't have to chase anything, it's just, it's ready.
Sweet, and that's gonna go right
in the living soil from there?
Yep.
Awesome, man, killer.
Lisa, what are you gonna do to start your seeds?
Well, first I'm gonna have my son scar them
because they're so tiny, I'll probably drop it.
And then I'll do the paper towel thing.
Okay.
Then get them in just a little pot for a little while.
And then, you know, go up to there, how fast they grow.
And usually pretty quick,
and then fill in the dirt as they grow.
And then move it up as probably into the biggest,
I'm probably a five gallon, like you're saying,
or something, maybe one in between, but we'll see.
Okay, there you go.
And then that's just gonna be like,
what kind of soil were you thinking?
Is this like just some soil from outside
in your yard there?
Yeah, I'm gonna use some of that
and just some potting soil that I have
and some, probably some worm castings
and maybe some Kashi on, you know, I've got some Kashi too.
Give it a little life, right?
Yeah, get that life going.
Oh, there you go.
And then what about-
You know, maybe put a yarrow plant in there.
The yarrow plant, it does nothing but good
for anything that you grow with it.
It helps heighten the disease resistance.
And when it's outside and it's blooming,
it attracts beneficial insects.
So it's a good one to grow.
And it's beautiful to look at too.
It's easy to grow.
Absolutely.
Is there any other type of beneficials
that you like to kind of do with your seedlings or?
Oh, you know, sometimes have a little living mulch
on there sometimes, trying to get that living soil going
finally, get a little micronase in there.
You know, just want to get that biology moving.
Yep.
So the plants-
Get them interacting early, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, I have a fun little trick with,
I think that if you do yarrow
and I like to put into a Nutribullet with a bunch of aloe,
a little bit of yogurt and some coconut water.
And then that's actually what I would like
to water my seedlings with.
So I love to hear that you're using yarrow as well.
Cool.
It's nice to hear somebody else is doing it.
Yeah, absolutely.
And it's funny because I've only got,
I've got two yarrow plants in the living soil bed
cause I'm on the East coast here.
I'm in the DMV, the Delaware, Maryland, Virginia area.
So we don't have much living outside at all right now.
It was 16 degrees the other morning
when I got up to go to the farm.
So, but what little yarrow that I have,
I only use for my seedlings pretty much.
So it's really special that you're using that.
Cool.
And then Chef Alex,
what are you gonna do to start these special seedlings?
I will be soaking them and also using the paper towel.
I haven't, I usually just take them out of the paper towel
and then place them into my soil.
But after listening to one of Jeff Lowenfeld's
recent podcast, he's all about blending that paper towel
with the seedling because of the beneficials.
I never thought about that.
Holy shit.
That just makes sense.
You also to put the paper towel with the seedling.
Is that what you said?
I think so.
I mean, I guess it makes sense
cause they're using all these like disposable pots now,
you know, like the cow manure pots
and things that break down
like the mushroom based pots and stuff.
But yeah, why not have a paper towel
that's maybe not bleached or something like that.
Not like a white one.
Man, that's killer dude.
I appreciate that.
That's good advice.
I've had trouble to where they,
like you ever use those cardboard pots?
Yeah, yeah.
I've had trouble to where like the roots
don't like to penetrate that
even when you bury it in the soil.
So in my head, like we're using the paper towel,
like if the paper towel wrapped around the taproot
when it's still a baby,
that'd be difficult.
That's true.
That's good that you mentioned that.
Let me clarify a little more.
So I would open up the paper towel,
you know, I would be mindful and let it,
it would just be in the soil planted with it
so that the bacteria goes into the soil.
You know, I would still-
Okay, okay.
Kind of manipulated around.
So it's still in the same vicinity or same area,
but gotcha, not directly.
Penetrate.
I've actually had to cut the bottoms
out of those pots that you were talking about
to have good luck.
Yeah.
Well, so basically that puts us down to our,
what I wanna know is how many of you guys run in here?
What's gonna be the count?
We'll start with Alex, since you're already up there.
Are you gonna go ahead and pop that whole little packet
that they gave you?
Or are you gonna run like two or three of these guys?
Well, it looks like there's I think six in here
and I imagine they're regs.
So I, unless something crazy pops up out of the boys,
I'm probably just gonna be looking for ladies here.
And that, if I'm gonna be putting something outside,
we'll have to see what, which way she leans on that.
So I imagine I'll get two or three,
two or three girls out of there.
Nice.
Lisa, are you gonna pop all six of yours?
Yeah.
I have six whisker biscuit cross and three whisker biscuit.
I know.
There should be half a dozen
of the just the straight whisker biscuit.
And then there should be like another fucking few
of a whisker biscuit out cross.
Or something.
Maybe he mixed them up between the envelopes.
Yeah, there should be separate envelopes of everything.
There's a lemon stinger cross.
Yeah, that's what I got.
I got six in here.
See, that's gonna be cool too,
is running a comparison there.
You know what I mean?
You'll get to see.
Those out crosses.
Beware those out crosses.
I haven't cracked any yet, but they're big fucking seeds
and I bet they're thick as hell.
They could probably use a little scuff.
They're gonna take a little extra time to pop.
They're huge.
Yeah, okay.
That's good advice.
Dave, you gonna pop all six of yours?
I never like to pop all of a pack, I feel like.
So I'll probably pop four of them.
I'm sure I'll find at least one female out of four.
I know Chad Westport's over there.
The odds are in my favor, hopefully.
Chad Westport's smiling somewhere.
We're in the two seed club.
We pop all of our seeds except for the last two,
just in case.
When the zombies come,
you gotta have a little collection or something.
You know what I mean?
I always have seeds.
I try to make seeds every round too.
Like if I can find a male that I like,
I just hold the pollen.
Good, yeah.
Freeze it until I need it, let it thaw out,
use it, put it back.
That's very smart of you.
Yeah, I'm very big on open pollination.
I think that as soon as you get a pack of seeds,
no matter what it is,
I think you should just let them all run.
Oh, that's a good idea too.
Yeah, I usually, I try to,
if I get a nice pack that I think is gonna be cool,
I'll F2 what I think is the best female
with the best male that I found in it too.
Yeah, I guess.
It's not an open,
I don't do it like an open,
which is, I'm probably, you know.
But if you're at least picking out the females
that you like, you know what I mean?
You've at least got one side of it locked down
in the next round that you're gonna do,
you'll at least hopefully find with the smoke
that you like.
You might not find all the expressions,
but at least-
In such a small space that I'm doing,
only popping a few seeds every time anyways,
it doesn't matter which way I go,
open pollination or selected few.
I'm not gonna know the difference in what's, you know.
Yep, as long as you save them, right?
Like as long as you just have seeds to go back through.
That's how I started.
It'll be good smoke regardless.
Exactly.
Right.
Exactly.
All right, well, that kind of brings us to,
you know, we wanna kind of remain secretive
about how we do everything
until we start talking about the other meetings.
You know, once we start getting into
and start showing each other some pictures.
But while we're kind of at the end here,
let's, anyone have any questions for Jimmy
about what we should prepare for?
You know, we do know there's gonna be
a long flowering variety with some thin leaves.
How long have you kept it,
or do you ever use a solo cup to start your stuff?
Or like a smaller pot like that?
Oh yeah, all the time.
How long, like what's the longest
you've kept it in a solo cup?
I guess it doesn't matter that much, but.
Oh fuck, I've kept plants in solo cups
so long that they were, yeah.
They start flowering out, right?
You know, this root ball is like a club, you know?
You know, it's so funny you say that, Jimmy,
because right now what I'm going through
is a situation with that,
and it's the pineapple sasses.
They're sitting in the fucking solo cup right now.
They're just like, I'm just ready to flower.
It's gonna be bad.
So for everyone else in here,
the pineapple sass is a pineapple cush
to the Coca-Cola root beer by Jimmy.
Oh yeah.
Happy birthday, man.
Those are totally underrated.
Just flavor on both ends, you know?
I'm so excited.
And with the eye for crosses like that,
that lets me know that I'm in for something good
with this gorilla biscuit and the Vietnam black,
you know what I mean?
I don't think you would choose those two
if you didn't have the eye.
So does anybody else have any kind of questions for Jimmy
before we go into the rest of our book club?
I can't think of anything right now.
I would expect a lot of vigor.
They're pretty fast growing plants.
They're very cool.
You should, hopefully you guys see
all the kind of goofy,
you know, kind of different leaf sets that they throw out,
you know, like the little devil horns,
and then there's like the little thumb that sticks up.
And they're pretty cool, man.
And lots of color, the ones that lean towards the mom.
You'll be able to, you know,
and just because they're so opposite,
you'll be able to tell which, you know,
kind of what you're looking at by the, you know,
by the third or fourth week,
and the leaves really start to show you who they are.
It's a lot easier to pick out.
And, you know, again, for any of you
that are gonna be time constrained in the summer,
you might wanna, you know,
choose the broader leaf ones to put outside,
and, you know, maybe try and trigger.
And I've always had good luck with triggering my,
you know, my girls in like June,
flowering for like four or five weeks indoors,
and then just put them outside,
and they just keep, they'll just keep showing.
There's the occasional,
there's the occasional one that's real light sensitive,
and they can tell that it's like not quite enough,
you know, or, you know, it's too much light.
And they revert back right away.
But for the most part, once they get a good chug on them,
they're okay to put out.
And I'm trying to think, they're good feeders too.
Don't, you don't have to be like real gentle.
You know, maybe you get one
that's like extremely narrow leaf,
and you feel like it's a, you know,
heavy representation as a dad,
you can take it a little easier,
because you know it's probably gonna be another,
you know, three or four weeks in the flower department.
So, but they'll eat, they'll eat.
That fucking biscuit was a heavy, you know,
it was just a heavy feeder, you know,
because the Gross Vast really packs on flour,
so they go, it tears through it.
So I didn't get any, like, you know, I don't,
you know, when I test,
I don't try and like take it easy on some,
and, you know, it's just,
everybody gets the same fucking food.
You know, we kind of weed out who, you know,
I mean, when they're worth it, they're worth it,
you know, you can kind of tailor it to them,
but for like when I'm testing
and just kind of checking shit out, you know.
So I didn't get any burn,
maybe just a tiny little bit of tip burn
on the, you know, on the more narrow gals,
but no, they're beasts.
We didn't get, we didn't have too terrible
of a summer, fall this year with like,
the year before was Septoria
and tons of fucking mildew and shit,
but this year was just pretty light all the way around.
So I can't tell you how, you know, they made it fine,
but I'm not gonna be like, yeah, they pulled through
and it wasn't a bad year.
So I can't tell you how resistant they're gonna be.
You know, just to be fair.
You ever have budworm problems?
What's that?
You ever have budworm problems?
Oh yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I had a couple this year that really pissed me off.
Yeah.
We're thinking about trying to outsmart them
and grow while they're not active.
Right, right.
So does this is one of those things
that some of us collectors get really excited about.
Jimmy, are we the only ones that have these?
I think there's one pack.
I think there's one pack out there.
Oh wow, holy moly.
That was a couple of years ago, you know,
like a pack of the F1s.
Oh wow.
So sorry, Mitch.
Unfortunately, you cannot get a hold of the Whiskered Biscuits.
And every day and all the stock that I have
is getting run in the spring.
Between spring and summer,
I'm gonna run through every last bit of it.
I'm gonna do the, well, shit, now I don't know,
but definitely gonna split the line and run, you know,
the narrows aside from the broad leaves
and really separate it out,
do a couple more generations and, you know,
trying, I don't wanna totally lock it in
because like I said,
the even split expressions were fucking awesome too,
you know?
So I'm trying to get it,
I'd like to get it to where, you know,
half of the, you know, you pop a handful of seeds,
half of them are gonna be that,
whatever the goal was,
whether it's the Vietnamese or the biscuit,
and then you're gonna have a few that are close
and then a few that are like more like
a really fucking solid mix of the two.
So we'll see, but so far, so far, so good.
Everything that I've seen out of this line is awesome.
There's, you know, even the ones that you don't,
you might not wanna keep,
they're still like well worth fucking growing.
Well, so I always get too stoned
and never ask the right questions.
Randall Flagg was asking,
what's the possibility on the thin leaves
if we run it indoor?
Do you think we've run into a possibility
of Herman, that guy or her?
I didn't run into any problems.
I ran them all in five inch pots too, right to the end.
Wow, okay, so they got root bound and everything
and they handle it.
Oh yeah.
All right, that's very good to know
because I think I'll do a run indoors
and I think I'm gonna follow the same kind of concept
as Alex, I might take some cuttings
and I might take the cuttings outside
and I might keep the seedlings actually
as the mother plants for a little bit,
run them both as clones indoors and outside
and see what we get.
Right on.
Yeah, the Astro Zombie line is a little more
sensitive indoors if you're fucking about
and if you don't have a lot of, you know,
root space and whatnot.
Because it's, you know, it's wild land race
versus wild land race.
And there's nothing in there to really tame it that,
you know, whatever it is between the Sensi Star
and the Star Dog, particularly the Sensi Star,
I would imagine, just really throttles back
that kind of wild nature to, you know,
fuck themselves basically.
Right, that's what the Mazare, right?
The Mazare Sharif.
You know, the high, that, there's just that,
you know, that calming kind of like makes it,
well, it's more, you know, I think they're just more prone
to being grown indoors and, you know,
that just helps out a lot.
You know, I mean, I've run shit like,
I've run shit from Gene, great, great stuff,
you know, that root beer,
but it gets a little cunty indoors, some of them do.
Sure, yeah, and that's what he was saying.
He was real weary about releasing it at first
just because it does get weird inside
and, you know, not everybody's very careful
and not everybody's mindful about it like you.
And, you know, some people hear the name Mean Gene
and they're just like, oh shit,
give me that Unstoppable Weed, you know?
Right, right, and it is, and it's great.
The root beer is great shit.
I have a bunch of crosses that I made with the,
you know, with some root beer stock
that I got a couple of years ago.
Can still hear me?
And, yeah, it's awesome, but you gotta,
you just gotta be careful and, you know,
it's just one of those things, they're awesome.
It's one of the advantages and disadvantages, you know,
he breeds everything outdoors,
so you're gonna get, you know,
plants that are, you know, resistant to shit,
you know, they're good with the mold,
they're good with the pests, they're, you know,
it's gonna have a fairly good finishing time.
But with that, they might not like to be indoors.
Right, yeah, absolutely.
And that was gonna bring me to one of the questions I had
that I totally skipped over.
I know, like, we're kinda towards the end of things there.
I don't wanna hold Jimmy up too, too long.
Oh, go ahead.
But for any of us indoor starters, man,
what kind of lights are you guys thinking about?
Like, what are you guys gonna start with?
Looks like we lost Div and we also lost Alex.
So Lisa, what are you and I gonna run for lights?
I'm gonna start with that,
assuming our hydro bar and I've got a spider farmer light
from my two by two that I've been using.
He's in, Skylar's been using them in the bigger tent.
So he helps me grow, so I'm not too loud.
Yeah, those are nice LEDs,
cause those, you know, those are a nice, not heat,
like LED.
Now a lot of people hear LED and they assume like,
it's gonna be like super top notch
as far as like heat and power goes.
But the LEDs that you're talking about
are really good for actual heat.
They're great indoor ones, especially for starting.
Yeah, yeah, I found that to be the case.
They're beautiful plants he grows under there.
Awesome.
Well, it looks like it's down to us three here.
Jimmy, I think we're all super excited about this project,
man, this was a really good idea by Peter.
And, you know, we couldn't be more thankful
that he would actually have us all together
and get some, you know,
people that we probably wouldn't have talked to each other
all outside of this, sit down, have a common interest.
So this is gonna be a really beautiful project
we all get to work on.
And I couldn't be more thankful to you, Jimmy,
for doing the work and giving us the seeds too.
You know, I really appreciate that, man.
Thank you so much.
Yeah, yeah, thanks for donating part of your gardens
and your time and all that, you know, the effort.
And it's well appreciated.
It's good to see, you know,
it's just good to see them grown in different conditions
and by different people.
And, you know, I mean, I could have passed out,
you know, a half a dozen cuts
and we all would have had different results.
So it'll be fun to see what happens with SeedPop.
And I'll be late to the party,
but I'll be joining you guys in a couple of months here.
And like I said, I still have to kind of,
I'll hem and haw about it
and flip a coin three or four times
and then make a decision as to whether, you know,
if I'm gonna start with the short variety
or the long variety, but I'll be there with you shortly.
Are you doing yours from cuts?
Are you gonna run yours from seed and look for those too?
We're working on F3 this summer.
Oh, wow.
So at F2, man, you're probably seeing a lot
of really, really cool stuff, man.
Yeah, even like the F1s had nice variation,
F2s were wild.
And so it's like, it might take, you know,
a couple of selections before we really start
to get it kind of wrangled in.
They're cool, man.
Fucking worth the, they're worth the effort.
Yeah, like I said, man, like I'm super fucking excited.
Again, that's a far spectrum thing.
That reminds me of kind of, like I said,
like a Neville or a skunk man cross,
like, you know what I mean?
Like that's a short flowering broadleaf resin ash plant
to a long flowering thin leaf, you know what I mean?
Like it doesn't get cooler than this.
Right.
And that's exactly what I'm looking for.
You know, on one side I want that, you know,
the faster, most resinous,
and then, you know, with that heavy, heady stone,
but with a clear edge to it
where you're really fucking high,
you're really relaxed, you're fucking,
but you're not gonna fall asleep.
Like you can sit down and just melt into the couch
and really enjoy it instead of just nodding off.
Right?
And then on the other side,
I'm looking for something that's just, you know,
a high riding fucking kick in the ass
like the Vietnamese gives, but with that,
you know, with a little extra resin
and that a little turpentine kick, you know,
like a gassy, just a gassy fucking electric ride.
So.
Basically what all of us seed makers want.
We want a thinly variety that's unique
that has a smoke of like those hashy ass varieties, right?
Like the stuff that just blast us that we love
that we don't think the thin leaves have,
but then we get into the thin leaves
and we're usually pretty surprised.
Well, I like the resin on these because it's that,
you know, it's like the dry sandy kind of,
Oh.
Kind of balance, right?
Instead of that kind of wet, greasy.
Yeah.
Oh, cool.
More of a tacky instead of the greasy.
When that shit dries, it's more like sand
and it just makes the best.
Like I like just straight fucking bubble hash, you know?
I take a scoop of that Keef and put it in a baggie
and stick that shit in my shoe for the day.
And that would be like.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I like that kind of resin.
So this is really checking like fucking every box.
We'll have to see how they do outside, obviously.
But, you know, and more and kind of more harsh.
Cause like I said, this summer was really mild.
We didn't get a ton of rain like we did the year before.
And, you know, everything just,
it was just a nicer year all the way around.
So they really didn't get put through the ringer.
But man, if you can find, you know,
that like electric ride,
that really fucking just wild looking feminine,
but evil looking a little, you know,
they got some big, a wicked leaf set to them.
Sounds like my women's choice, man.
You're going.
Just like just a little bit of that fucking,
a little bit of that gassy turpentine.
That's just a perfect one.
I had a nice one,
but it was like, I know there's better in there.
Yeah.
Well, I'm telling you,
now that you've got a group of killer testers on the case,
I think you'll find yourself having a cut sooner
than you think, man.
Sounds good.
Well, Jimmy, thanks again for giving us your time, man.
And then most importantly,
thanks again for giving us the seeds
to do some fun work with.
I hope that we do you proud
and I can't wait to meet with you guys, you know,
the next time we have something to report about.
Hell yeah, man.
Yeah, so in the early stages, it's very boring.
But then it gets more exciting as like things start
to flower, so I figured you guys like reconvene
in a month or so.
Yeah, I was gonna say,
they haven't even soaked seeds yet.
So like, let's say like six weeks
and let's see where every, all the, you know,
all the veggers are at and then, you know,
another couple of weeks and they should be,
they should move along pretty quickly.
Once they're established about a month old,
they'll really start to just take off.
And depending on how big you wanna get them
and all that kind of stuff, it won't take much.
Right.
They're gonna get aggressive.
And well, again, I think we're all excited.
So yeah, with that, I appreciate it again, Jimmy.
We will talk to you and again, probably about a month.
Hopefully, you know, maybe Valentine's Day,
it's probably about a month away.
Yeah.
A little Valentine's Day social.
There you go.
All right, guys.
Yeah, thanks for donating your time
and your space and everything.
And we'll talk soon.
All right.
Thanks.
Have a good night, guys.
Happy New Year.
So now you gotta hit that end broadcast.
