Nice to meet you.
Have a great day.
Have a fun show.
What's up guys?
We are live behind the scenes a little bit,
just trying to get some stuff dialed in.
But again, we're live from Italy.
Just shout out to London.
He's going to be our guest next week.
So you guys get to ask all of those questions
you've probably been asking me
about what he's doing out there.
Why did he move out there?
What's going on?
Those are questions for him.
So we're gonna ask him and find out more about that.
Today we have a guy that's well known around here.
I was using the word a little bit
of a legendary here in Denver.
Mile High Dave is well known.
His aura, his presence in the cannabis community
and kind of like cultivated synergy
and some of the well-known spots in Denver
that used to be around.
This man's name was about.
And I never knew what you looked like until what?
Five minutes ago.
And that's something that I wanted
to kind of give you a salute on
because that's how it was for a long time.
I think a lot of individuals just like to carry themselves,
let their artwork speak for itself.
That's something that I think you're like continuing
and carrying on.
For our audience, some of the newer individuals,
this guy's on the other side of the kitchen cooking,
using different techniques, obviously using synthetics.
So you got your branded Athena hat on.
So I know a lot of individuals
are starting to see that brand pop up.
And I wanted to reach out to one of the experts
that is running this and kind of pick your brain.
Marco's gonna help kind of just find a bridge
and start to understand from your side of things
why you're running it this way.
You're obviously hitting home runs with it.
You've been in High Times Magazine three times already.
So there's a lot of success
that you're finding doing it this way.
And before we came live,
we were all saying we're all on the same team.
I think some of the silliness behind the scenes
with cannabis individuals,
if you guys really knew what went on behind the scenes,
you would laugh at it.
I was telling my wife that synthetics and organic
is the equivalent of,
is the cannabis version of Ford versus Chevy.
It's kind of silly.
There you go.
For sure.
It's kind of silly in my opinion.
Exactly.
There's a lot of bench racing.
You're sitting there just talking about it.
And the end result, as you can see from your IG, man,
I've been following you on my cannabis account for a while.
Thank you.
And you can see just from your photos
and just from that final product that,
hey, we're all growers and there's a way to master
every type of technique that there is to grow.
So, man, I'm excited, man.
You've mentioned when we got on, you're like,
well, shoot, I used to grow organic 20 years ago.
And I'm thinking, well, damn,
I was growing with salts like almost that long ago.
So it's almost like a yin and yang type of thing.
Right, absolutely.
It'd be cool to just kind of talk it up as growers, man.
And pros and cons, things you like, things you do.
And it's all kind of all about your system
and what you got going on.
Yeah, I can just tell you kind of in a general sense,
the reason why I like salts versus organics personally,
I feel like I have a little bit more control
of the media, what's coming in, what's going out.
So, and I mean that in terms of EC and pH,
not only that with salts,
and I won't just say with any salts,
but with particularly clean salts, like the Athena brand,
I'm not just a guy that likes to hype brands.
I've tried just about every nutrient on the market,
every salt on the market.
Athena really is super clean.
So when you're dealing with clean salts,
you have the ability to drive that EC up
a little bit more than what the average legacy grower
would be used to.
Like when you talk about growing at three,
three and a half EC, some guys are just like, wow, man,
like how do you not burn your plants?
Well, it's a different, yeah,
we're dealing with synthetic nutrients
that were created in a laboratory.
But then again, you have to look at
where are those source ingredients coming from?
Are they the best source ingredients you can find?
Or are they just throwing anything they can in a bag
and slapping a logo on it
and trying to hype you into buying it?
So I think that with the Athena brand,
especially they really take the time to R&D
and research their nutrients, their source nutrients.
They're only taking stuff from the best places.
Like I know they only take certain nutrients
from like the West Coast, for instance, source ingredients,
versus like they won't take stuff from the East Coast
because it's not as pure, stuff like that.
When a nutrient company goes into that much effort
to make sure the grower is getting the top quality product,
the best quality product that they can,
then that's kind of a company I lean more towards.
So after trying a lot of different things,
I've achieved the best results with Athena.
And I think a lot of that has to do with
the work they put into it before it ever hits the market.
What is your style you're running?
Are you running cocoa?
How are you running-
I run 100% cocoa.
So currently I run four plants a light.
I grow in five gallons.
I run 100% cocoa.
Every once in a while I run that Mother Earth 70-30,
which I like a lot, but I find 100% cocoa,
I'm getting a little bit better results.
I hand feed daily.
I hand mix daily.
I won't say hand feed.
I have drippers set up, but I hand mix daily.
And I think that's a big thing with salts
that a lot of people don't do.
They tend to mix these huge batch tanks
and they sit there for a couple of days.
And I find that I get better results
when I'm hand mixing daily and feeding those plants
fresh nutrients every single day.
They just do better than if I mix a big tank
and it sits there for three, four, five days a week
and I continually feed off the same container.
And again, I'll go back to cleanliness of the nutrients.
A lot of salts out there,
they have a tendency to clog drippers
and they leave a lot of residue and sediment
in your reservoir.
I'm not really getting any of that.
So those are the things that enabled me to really push
the limits of what I can do.
So I wanted to kind of dive deeper into
why is Athena so, it's popping off.
I was gonna say so fantastic or whatever,
but I've never obviously used it or anything.
Trying to understand why more individuals
are willing to wear the hats, the shirts.
We've talked about marketing and branding
several times on the show where that starts to,
you know, that's a canary in the coal mine, if you will.
It's like, wow, there's a shift in the movement here
when people are rocking this kind of stuff.
They obviously have great marketing and branding,
you know, but I think even beyond that,
like I said, the quality of their R&D department
and the lengths they're willing to go to,
to try to make sure something is tried and true and tested
before it ever hits the market
is really is what's separating them
in terms of why growers are getting their product
for the first time and seeing the best results ever.
Like, oh my gosh, like this is better than anything
I've ever gotten before with anything else I've used.
And that's how it was for me.
I've used, you know, you name it, dude.
I've back in the day, man, I used to get worm castings
and bat guano and peritonite and vermiculite
and mix all my own hand mix my own, you know,
my own little concoctions.
And I would, you know, try to change things here and there.
And I'd be adding all kinds of stuff.
And I've never got the results as I have
with a simple three part nutrients, you know,
it's just really simple and it works.
So I would say that above all else,
branding and marketing is great,
but results speak for themselves.
And I think the amount of people showing
top quality results with the product,
like on Instagram and social media
is what's really driving the company up
through the roof right now.
You know, it's the quality of results
that people are showing like, hey, you know,
one thing I hear a lot from organic growers is,
you know, salts, you have no turps.
It gets no turps, you have no turps, cardboard turps.
I hear that a lot.
But then at the same time, I have to look back and say,
okay, if you look at Athena,
they've won like several major competitions
from ZA Olympics to like cannabis cups across the board
in the turps category,
as well as looks and flavor and everything else.
I mean, they're just winning all kinds of awards.
So, and me myself, you know, from the results I've gotten,
I haven't had any turp issues whatsoever.
So I think a lot of times when people are saying things
like cardboard turps, a lot of times that's grower error.
That's not even the nutrient company.
It's not even the quality of the salts.
Like yeah, Athena is great,
but I think you can get great turps
with just about any salt out there,
as long as you take the time at the end to do it right.
And so I think a lot of people
are just rushing stuff to market
and hence the cardboard turps.
You know, they're in such a rush to,
yeah, it's a head scratcher for me
why anybody would take six months to grow something
to the best of its quality,
only to turn around and try to rush dry it in a week
just to put it out there and make money, you know?
And this is where you're getting a lot of those
quote unquote cardboard turps from,
is from guys just rushing things to market,
trying to make a buck as quick as they can,
and you know, the consumer suffers.
So do you feel like, you know,
pretty much turps would be the same,
you know, organic grown to, you know, Athena.
So if I was to make that switch,
I wouldn't, turps wouldn't be something that I would say,
oh, well, I am noticing a little bit less here.
I mean, what do you think?
I think it's possible,
but I think the difference is gonna be minimal.
And I say that because of some of the, you know,
the best phenos that I found with the best turp profiles,
I've seen guys grow it organically,
and the turp profile is nearly identical.
I mean, I don't really see much of a difference.
You might have,
it might have a slightly better wash percentage.
You know, there might be minute differences,
but nothing to where you're like,
oh, this was grown so much different.
You know what I mean?
Like, I don't see any quality difference
in organic versus salts,
as long as you're taking pride in your craft
and you're doing things the right way,
all the way down to the curing process,
which I think is as important,
if not more important than the growing process,
because so many people flub the curing process,
like I said, in an effort to make money,
as soon as possible.
Definitely.
Do you, obviously, do you do any kind of flush,
where water only for,
what's that period of time that you wash?
So usually I flush,
usually my target EC for finished product
is between 0.5 and one.
So I tend to flush,
I tend to bring it down slowly over the last 14 days.
I constantly monitor runoff,
pH, EC, and I make minor adjustments
to kind of just bring it down slowly
to where the last three days is getting nothing but water.
And that usually brings me,
you know, within those final target points,
like 0.5, 0.7, that's fine with me.
And I don't have any terp issues at all,
you know, no black ash or anything weird.
Okay, so basically you're watering out
until that leachate at the end of your run
is about half an EC, pretty much.
Right.
That makes sense.
And that's another thing where salt growers
can have some issues too,
is guys just running hard out to the end,
you know what I mean?
You definitely can't do that, you know what I mean?
Right, and I've known guys that have,
well, you know, and there's some tests,
there's some scientific experiments out there,
I can't remember who did it,
but I know there was an experiment done
where they did a blind test
and they ran stuff at super high EC,
they didn't do any flush,
and that stuff actually that had no flush
got better reviews from the smokers,
liked it more than the stuff that had been flushed.
So, I mean, you can take that however you want it.
I just know that I prefer to flush,
it's something I've always done.
I don't believe in running things all the way
until the end, you know, at top EC.
I usually run at about 3.5 EC all the way to day 50,
and then day 50 is when I start to bring things down.
Over the last 14 days,
I usually don't run anything past 64 days.
Over the last 14 days is, you know,
I just slowly bring that EC down a couple points a day
until we're at, you know, where I wanna be.
So, is a lot of your work strictly to flower
or are you washing and having that stuff pressed out?
I am having a lot of stuff washed.
I tend to test wash everything,
but my main thing is pheno hunting.
I'm consistently looking for the best that I can find.
You know, I'm looking, I'm constantly popping new seeds.
When I started this about three years ago,
I kind of got back into it and I decided, you know what?
I got a state license,
I'm gonna go ahead and dedicate my life to this.
So, that's what really is the difference
between you've never heard of Mahai Dave a few years ago
to you're hearing Mahai Dave all over the place now
is because I'm pushing my brand to that point
because that's where I wanna be.
You know, I decided to put everything I have into this
and that's what I do.
I dedicate my life to this plant.
Beyond this, the only, it's the most important thing
in my life beyond my family.
Damn, I gotta give you a gold bar.
That's deep because you're putting out that energy.
So, you're not surprised, right?
You're not surprised they're hearing about Mahai Dave.
So, that's key right there.
I mean, put out what you want and go for it.
Put the energy.
I'm a firm believer that projection
is the step before manifestation.
If you don't see it in your mind,
it'll never materialize in the physical world.
100%, yeah.
That's worth the whole talk right there
if anybody gets anything.
It sounds like such bullshit
until you experience it for yourself.
And then you kind of have that like click on
of the third eye or however you wanna view it
where you're like, wow, the world is a little bit different
than I was taught.
Exactly.
So, we're going, I mean, I'm just like,
I feel like, look, we are, it is what it is.
You're running sauce, we run an organics.
I wanna talk some strains, you know?
Cause I'm like you, man.
I'm always looking for something very turpy,
very different, very unique.
What kind of stuff are you finding right now?
What like, what are you, you know,
what's your hard hitting turps?
So, I would say one of my most impressive strains
right now in terms of turp profile
is Dante's Inferno number six.
It's a strain put out by Clearwater.
And initially I bought,
I wanna say five packs of seeds from them.
And my two best keepers all came from the same pack.
Majority of the plants that I got from them had no turps.
The other majority had like kind of grape-ish candy turps,
which my number one keeper Dante8 does.
It has kind of like a grape candy
with like a little hint of gasoline on the back end.
But it's really like, you know, artificial grape almost,
like a pack of grape Bigly Chew or something.
But the number six Fino,
it's like, it's ability to like overwhelm a room
is second to none.
Like, I don't know if you remember the big packs of Kool-Aid
with the sugar in them.
So, you know, when you first open like a fruit punch
or a cherry, you know that dust that comes out?
And how it's that little charm?
Put your nose down in there.
Bro, that's the nose on the Dante6 to the T.
It's like a artificial sugar candy.
And like, I could have an ounce in my kitchen
and the smell will fill the entire room.
And my living room is fairly big.
So it's definitely a head turner.
And every single person I gave it to,
I went to MJ BizCon, you know,
I gave it to the Jungle Boys.
I gave it to Ivan.
Ivan looked at me and was like,
man, we smoked the fuck out of your shit, dog.
Like they loved it, you know?
So that right there made me feel good.
Every single person I gave it to was just like,
what I gave it to Kraft Farmer.
He said, what the fuck is this?
Oh my God, look at this.
And like, you know, when I get those types of reactions
from guys who I've looked up to coming up as a grower,
who I've always been like, wow,
if only I could accomplish like a portion
of what they accomplished.
If they're looking at my flower going, whoa,
then I feel like, okay,
maybe I'm doing something special here.
I'm on the right track.
So, you know, but yeah,
I would say Dante6 was probably the most unique.
I would say the other one,
I have a Watermelon Z crossed with Tropical Z.
That one is just amazing too.
Look wise, it's not as crazy.
You know, all the Zs kind of had that outdoorsy look
a little bit more of a sativa look
than like the heavy, thick Indica's,
but man, the flavor profile on it is just incredible.
That's another, it's like a,
if you took all the gummies, you know,
in a store and just shoved them all in your mouth at once,
that's the kind of flavor burst you get from it.
It's just like incredible.
And every single, again,
I don't smoke a lot of flower myself.
I tend to, I'm a concentrate guy.
So I tend to give out a lot of flower for feedback.
And those two have gotten the best feedback
in terms of terp profile and flavor.
And I myself believe that, but you know,
I can't just go off of what I think.
I need the feedback from the people, the consumer.
Boom. That's key, man.
And I've been getting on my concentrates now
and I feel the same way though.
I still take that top shelf of my flower
and I like people to have that.
And I want them to, you know, give me that experience.
Tell me what you think.
And yeah, so that's good stuff, man.
I've been looking for watermelon terps.
Who would you say you got that watermelon from?
Oh yeah, that watermelon rush definitely hits that note.
If you, yeah, if you want,
I can shoot you a cut, no problem.
Oh shit. Okay.
We'll get on that later.
So who'd that come from?
Was that one that you kind of been working with
and creating or did you pick it up?
That's a good, that's a, so that came from a tester pack.
I believe it was from Tiki Madman.
And yeah, I believe that was a Tiki Madman tester pack.
Or no, it was a freebie pack that came with a pack of,
so when I started about three years ago,
I spent about $12,000 and I bought as many seeds
from all the quote unquote top breeders in the industry.
Bought a bunch of Tiki stuff,
bought a bunch of Sea Junkie stuff,
bunch of Clearwater stuff.
I mean, you name it, man.
Any breeder you could name,
I'm a Masonic smoker, I bought them all.
In the end, Sea Junkie, Clearwater,
Tiki Gear is what lasted.
That's the stuff that I'm still growing now.
Out of like 500 seeds.
And I'm not knocking any of those other breeders.
I tend to push things hard,
so not every strain is gonna respond well to that.
Not everything likes to get fed at high EC.
There's a lot of these genetics out there,
you feed them lower, they do a lot better.
That's just not what I do.
I like to feed stuff at high EC,
I like to keep stuff that does well under high EC.
And one of the reasons for that
is because I tend to sell a lot of clones.
So when I have a genetic that does really well
under high EC, the next grower
who might not be as proficient as me
is less likely to have an issue with that if he overfeeds.
That's usually the main issue
with anybody's garden is overfeeding.
So by putting out nothing but only keepers
that I find that feed at really high EC
eliminates a little bit of that tendency
for people to overfeed and get in trouble with cuts.
So that's just my philosophy on it.
Feeding at high EC, you gotta feed them that light too.
So are you running, what's your light system?
So you gotta be pushing that real hard.
And do you look at those kind of equally
or how do you run that?
Yeah, so I run LEDs.
I run 100% LEDs.
Love them.
I'm not pushing DLI, I just tend to push CO2
which helps the whole system.
So feeding at high EC, I'm pushing DLI 1200 plus
sometimes between 11, 1200.
And then I'm pushing CO2 1500 PPMs or greater.
That's right.
That's what people gotta understand.
Don't just go grab the thing and run 3.2
and try to hit the-
I've had guys do it.
I had a buddy on IG.
We used to like to do friendly competition.
He saw me posting, I was feeding at three and a half EC.
And then I saw him posting that he was feeding
at three and a half EC.
And I just shook my head and said,
boy, you better know what you're doing there.
And then sure enough, he messaged me.
He was like, man, I burned my-
It's like, yeah, if you're gonna feed that high,
not only should you increase all those other CO2 DLI,
but you should also increase runoff.
20 to 30% runoff is really critical
when you're feeding at those high numbers,
at least for me.
Like I said, I grow in five gallons.
So I like to push fresh rounded nutrients through daily.
I also do, so depending on EC,
I like to keep my medium EC
between like four and a half and like six and a half.
And if it starts to push higher than that,
then I do what you call a flush day.
On flush days, again, it gets
I just flush with either anywhere between 0.5 and one EC
to bring it down.
So let's say I water, I'm going in at three and a half.
I check my runoff, it's coming out at seven.
Okay, next day I'm going in at half an EC.
Maybe for the next two days, I'll go in at half an EC
until it comes back down into the range that I want
and just keep going from there.
And hit them again, okay.
Right.
Okay.
That's how you, a lot of people don't understand
that that's how you grow with salts.
It's a lot different than organic.
You know, I've had a buddy said,
man, I've never gotten over three a light.
Or he's never gotten over one a light.
And I said, you've never gotten over one a light.
And I said, well, what's your runoff numbers?
He said, what do you mean?
So, you know, you're not, that's a lot.
One of the main things a lot of people don't do
is check runoff.
Now when you're feeding these,
I'm sorry to cut you off.
Just to get your clarification on how you feed and runoff.
So now if you're gonna feed a three EC,
you're gonna feed how many gallons?
And then when are you gonna check,
you know, what stage are you checking that runoff,
your leachate?
So I grow in five gallon pots.
Let's say I have a room of 90 plants in five gallon pots.
I'm going to run about 100 to 150 gallons
through there daily.
Until I achieve that 20 to 30% runoff.
There might be days where I might do 100 gallons
because I wanna achieve a little bit more of a dry back,
especially in the first couple of weeks.
But as we get into, you know, week three, four, five, six,
I'm feeding upwards of 150 gallons a day.
I think that translates to about roughly
like 1.3 gallons a pot.
And that's enough to give me the 20 to 30% runoff
that I'm looking for.
Gotcha.
Have you worked done anything with kind of drought stress
at the end where you're not as long with the flush
and just kind of slow in the increment of watering?
No, I haven't.
I've heard, well, I actually, I take that back.
I do tend to slow down watering a little bit
the last week or so.
But that's because I'm trying to slow down
how fast my EC is dropping.
So for me, it's all about EC.
Whatever the EC is, is how I'm adjusting my watering.
If the EC is, you know, high, I'm watering more.
If it's low, I'm watering less.
So towards the end, I tend to water a little bit less
because I don't want the EC to drop off too fast
to where the plants are just eating themselves.
You know what I mean?
Makes sense.
So what are your thoughts as a salt grower?
Like back in the day, some of the homies believed
that if you didn't have a little bit of a burnt tip
that you weren't pushing her as hard
as she needed to be pushed and all that.
I agree with that 100%.
I have, I usually have, if you look at my photos
of my plants, I usually have the slightest tip burn.
And that to me tells me they're eating
at their maximum potential not to push them anymore.
This is why I keep it in that six, five, four, five
media runoff range, because I found that any higher
than that, it tends to burn a lot more.
You know what I mean?
And so that's the sweet spot for me.
For my environment, I can't say that'd be the sweet spot
for everybody in their environment.
It really depends on what type of lights you're running
and a few other environmental factors.
Especially here in Denver with the genetics and all that.
Marco had kind of brought that up.
I had that on my list of questions to talk to you,
but on a deeper level here in Denver alone,
have you ever heard of Ben Holmes, Centennial Seeds?
No.
So I don't think he's popular anymore or whatever,
but when you were talking watermelon genetics
and some of that stuff, that gentleman has some
of that stuff that I think is so rare, some land-raised stuff.
You had mentioned some of the other genetic breeders.
Are there any like maybe more mom and pop type individuals
that you feel like that individual's putting in the work
and they should be shouted out?
Oh yeah, there's some great, great breeders.
I think one of my favorites, local Soak and Beans
up in Fort Collins, Colorado, they do a lot of great work.
They do stuff with this bubble gum,
phenos and bubble gum.
They've worked a lot with this bubble gum variety
and honestly, it's probably the most bubble gum
flavored phenos I've ran into in the open market.
So yeah, Soak and Beans up in Fort Collins,
they're just a small little outfit,
but they definitely put in the work.
And when you say bubble gum,
because that was another thing
that a lot of people used to argue about,
is there bubble gum and then there's Indiana bubble gum?
Are we both saying the same damn thing?
Bubble gum or bubble gum?
Bubble gum and then Indiana bubble gum.
I don't know if there's a difference
between bubble gum and Indiana bubble gum.
The bubble gum that I used to get
that was like juicy fruit bubble gum
was about a decade ago
and it was in the Northern Colorado area.
I haven't really ran into any other bubble gums
that have compared or I can even say,
yeah, that's a bubble gum I ran into.
That's my only experience with bubble gum
was in the Northern Colorado area
and I'm pretty sure it was coming from those guys.
But even back then.
That's an old school one right there, bubble gum.
Yeah.
So you mentioned, you said they were Soak and Beans?
Soak and Beans, yeah, up in Fort Collins, Colorado.
I'm gonna have to look them up.
What are you liking the Chimera stuff, man?
I'm loving the work that Beelief is doing.
Me and him actually are doing a collab project right now
where we're crossing my Dante 8.
He sent me some Chimera 3 pollen.
I'm crossing it to the Dante 8.
So yeah, I really like the work Beelief is doing.
I think he's one of the better breeders out right now.
Yeah, I like Beelief, man.
I run his stuff every two or three times.
I rock with Beelief for sure.
Definitely, man.
Loving, you can find some turps in there for sure.
And you will get a winner in a pack.
I just found a Chimera 3 Fino that literally
tastes and smells like chocolate covered cherries.
And I've been looking for a chocolate.
The last time I had a real chocolate Fino
was 20 plus years ago.
A friend of mine got some chocolate Kevorkian
from Amsterdam.
And it literally tasted and smelled like Hershey Kisses.
I never to this day haven't found anything quite like it.
It's one of those ones that sticks with me
through all these years.
And when I found this Beelief Chimera 3 Fino recently,
like two weeks ago, I was blown away by the smell
because it reminded me so much of that chocolate Kevorkian.
And the taste is nearly the same,
but it's got a little bit more of a maraschino cherry flavor
mixed in with the chocolate.
I like, I got some port wine out of a Chimera
that I ran out of his, man.
And it tasted just like that wine, Black and Mild.
You ever had one of those?
It was wild.
Just smoky, just whiny, really good, man.
So yeah, I love some Beelief.
Belief is starting to be like the drink
of the cannabis world.
Like he works with everybody.
It seems like he's hitting home run
after home run after home run.
You know, we-
That's another thing where it goes down to passion.
Man is passionate about what he does.
He loves what he does.
So it, you know, it manifests in a way that like,
it seems like he's doing more than anybody else,
but it's not that, it's just that he loves what he does
more than the majority doing it.
Why didn't you hit that with the Dante's 8?
I mean, the number six instead of the eight.
So the six needs a little bit of work.
The six has a tendency to herm if it's stressed at all.
So I don't like to put the six out there in a way,
I'm working with, so my plan is to reverse the eight,
hit that to the six and then hunt that
for something more stable.
The six can be finicky, man.
And like, to me, the risk is worth the reward.
I've had it herm on me, but I've never had it.
I don't think the herm,
I don't think the pollen on it is viable
because I've had it herm in the room
and it's never pollinated anything.
Okay, now have you heard of a male plant pollen
not being viable because I saved some pollen.
Absolutely.
Thinking I was about to get some shit popping.
And then I keep looking at these
and I'm like, I ain't seeing no seeds, man.
Not only can it go bad after time,
sometimes it's just not viable.
So that's something you have to test right away
to make sure you're even working with something
that can, like you can have some male pollen.
Like you said, you thought you had something,
you were about to do some work and then boom,
you didn't get anything out of it.
You ain't doing nothing.
Right, and moisture also is a pollen killer.
So you gotta be really careful
not to get any moisture on it.
Yeah, I was real particular on the drying.
I think what it was, I took some really young plants.
They kind of forced flower
just by the nature of moving them around.
I let them go ahead and flower.
They pollinated and there's nothing,
didn't get any good pollen out of them.
So it's weird.
Yeah, yeah, I've had that happen to me too.
So you're not the only one.
All right, cool.
Let me get back right quick to cost per run.
What do you, is Athena expensive to run for the layman
that says, hey, I wonder if this is pricey?
I don't think so.
I think it's cheaper than the majority
of the nutrients on the market.
Like let's say in comparison to a company
like Advanced Nutrients where you're buying 99% water
in the bottle and then what a little bit of nutrients
that they put in there.
Athena, you're definitely get what you pay for.
It might be slightly more expensive than other salts.
But then again, we're going back to that quality thing.
Now, if you're using a nutrient where that's better quality
and you're getting better results,
that usually better results means a larger yield.
So if the larger yield, it's worth the extra $20 a bag
that it might cost.
It's coming out to pennies per square foot.
So it's worth it in my mind.
If it's a little bit more than the next salt,
it's worth it because of the R&D they go into
when it comes to their products.
They really do the research and development
to make sure the consumer is getting the best quality salt
on the market.
Okay, and so what you're getting from them is concentrated
where it's not like bottled.
I run the Proline, which is straight concentrated.
Boom.
Well, I mean, if you're gonna do it,
you might as well not be shipping water
across the damn country.
Right.
To just the base nutrients, at least,
we're doing it as most, the greenest we can be doing it.
Right.
I see the commercials with that stuff
and everything's state of the art and like hospital clean.
We know that for most facilities, it's not like that.
Most people aren't running their operation
at that kind of level.
So when you're moving into your commercial side of things,
you're using synthetics, how are you protecting that?
What is your IPM method?
Because as we move along, everybody's growing the cannabis,
but you boys really taking it to the next level
when you're able to protect the product.
Right.
I think that goes a long way with IPM for a synthetic farmer
just like it does with any other farm.
Yeah, I think IPM is a must in any grow.
If you're not doing some type of pest management,
then your chances are you're gonna run
into issues eventually.
When it comes to IPM, I use the Athena IPM, which is great.
I use a few other organic.
So this is something, hey, the soil guys might like,
I only use organic IPMs, like the soybeans,
the capsule oils, the rosemary, stuff like that.
Citrus oil, things like that.
So I don't use any harsh chemicals when I'm growing.
I'm 100% against anything super harsh in my garden.
I'm not trying to pass off anything chemical in nature
to the consumer.
When we're kind of talking about moving forward
with some of the genetics and stuff from what you're seeing,
it seems like when we're interviewing, I guess,
week after week, now even Marco's on board,
where most individuals just wanna smoke concentrates.
At the level that you're at, I would imagine
you're thinking six months ahead, a year ahead.
You're dialing in a lot of these breeders
and their own genetics
because you don't wanna waste your time.
So are you working kind of on your own stuff
behind the scenes with Belief
and probably some other projects and stuff
so that you can streamline that for yourself?
100%.
So the main motivation in me sourcing all these genetics
in the beginning was looking for the best of the best
to use that as a launching point
for my own genetics company.
At the end of the day, I don't mind showcasing
what these other breeders can do,
but I'm a firm believer that nobody can showcase
what I can do better than me.
So if I'm the one involved in the breeding process,
in the growing process, in the distribution process,
then that's kind of what I wanted
in terms of building a legacy for my family.
What is your, do you have a name for your, this, you do?
Right, so Craig,
so my genetics company is Galactic Gardens.
Boom.
And I do everything,
right now I'm doing everything under Mahai Dave.
Galactic Gardens is kind of just like on paper,
you know what I mean?
I have the LLC, I have things incorporated and ready to go,
but I haven't put out any seeds under that company yet.
By summertime, that will change.
Okay, is this collab with B-Leaf
gonna be one of your first drops or the first drop?
It absolutely will.
I have seeds that are just finished up.
They need about 60 days to cure up,
and then they'll be ready for their first round of testing.
Once that testing is done,
then I'll be ready for the first seed drop,
which I'm guessing is gonna be towards the end of summer
by fall at the latest.
All right, seed curing.
Give me a little breakdown on that.
Well, fresh seeds need about two months
before they're viable for the ready to be germinated.
If you try to germinate them sooner,
chances are they won't germinate.
So I don't know if you've ever heard of people complaining
they bought seeds from breeders and not, you know,
it's really shitty to spend $350 on a pack
and have a 50% germination rate,
you know, or 20% germination rate.
I just, you know, I just went through it.
I just spent $700 on two packs,
and out of the two packs,
there's six seedlings that survived.
The rest did not germinate.
So that's a lot of money flushed down the drain for hype.
So I'm trying to avoid that
by making sure the things that I put out
are gonna be good for the consumer,
not, you know, just, I'm not just trying to sell hype.
I'm trying to sell the best out there that I can find.
That's right.
Those are the things we always talk about on this show, man.
Start with quality first, everything else will follow.
You can't start with trying to get the bag, you know,
the bag comes after the beads and the work has been done.
Absolutely.
I don't focus on money, man, and I made great money,
and that's not my focus at all.
I just focus on what I do,
focus on looking for the best that I can find
from this cannabis plant.
I mean, she has so many expressions.
You know, it's never ending on what you can find.
And that's what I love about it the most is,
you know, right when I find something good,
I'm like, oh, this is the best I ever found.
Then boom, here comes something better.
So that's the thing that I love about the most.
And I don't think that'll ever go away,
you know, when I find something new, I'm like, oh shit,
here's something that's even better than that one
I thought was the best.
So that's what I'm constantly chasing.
Yeah, me too, man.
That's the thing to chase right there.
And you gotta be hard, you gotta be picky.
Like my dad still talks about some strains of that.
Man, what about this one?
I said, no, I didn't care for it that much,
but you know, other people might love it,
you know what I mean?
But if it's not just to the highest peak,
then I try to, I don't keep running it.
That's why I have a diverse library
because not everybody, like right,
the last couple of years I've been
on this heavy sugar turt hunt,
fruity, artificial, candy.
You know, I've been looking for that,
but I still keep things that are super gassy
for the people that just love that, you know?
So you gotta have something for everybody's taste buds.
Cause I think that's the two main categories
is like the sugar candy and then the gasoline, you know?
And you get a little funk in there, you know,
trying to, it's kind of having its own little category too.
Hey, I still love that old school skunk number one.
Man, I love skunk.
Best compliment I ever had was when somebody came in there
my house and said, it smells like skunk in here.
They didn't know I grew it.
I was like inside, I was like, yes.
But also inside I was like,
oh shit, gotta tighten up that ventilation, you know?
But yeah, man, no doubt.
So strain wise, loving that belief,
starting your own stuff, that's awesome, man.
I definitely will be in line to grab a pack of those.
Thank you.
And then, so from there,
you're just gonna kind of keep working your own stuff
and just getting deeper into it
and offering more to the masses, huh?
Yeah, I think my ultimate goal is to build my genetic library
to a point to where I'm supplying commercial grows
all over the country.
My philosophy in that is, you know,
most commercial growers, they're not doing any pheno hunt.
They don't wanna do the pheno hunting.
They don't have time for that.
You have a commercial grow,
you're starting it up to make money.
So if I can do all that legwork for you
and just supply you with the genetics
that's tried, proven, tried and true, ready to go,
you know, gonna hit three of light guaranteed
as long as you follow the SOPs,
that's what I'm looking to do.
So you're looking to kind of have a catalog
eventually like belief.
And I would imagine you have your own kind of,
he was saying he has his like point system
that he rates all of his genetics on.
It sounded incredibly detailed, you know,
almost like in awe when he was explaining it
of how detailed it is.
Yeah, well, right now I have like about 40 solid phenos.
Out of the 40 solid phenos,
I've probably let out maybe a dozen or so to the masses.
I have stuff that I haven't even shown people.
I have stuff that, you know, is incredible
that I've never posted a picture of.
So just kind of saving that stuff for as we get into it,
like, you know, I'll just kind of let stuff out
more and more.
Like I have tons of content that's unreleased
on all kinds of strains that I've, you know,
haven't let out yet.
And yeah, man, I think it's my ultimate goal
is to just have this catalog of just the best of the best
that I found over the years and make it available
to any grower, whether it be commercial or even,
commercial is the ultimate goal in terms of a monetary gain,
but I also like to provide it to anybody in the industry
that would like to grow it,
whether they be a tent grower or a commercial grower.
As a matter of fact, one of the things that I have coming up
is I'm gonna start the Ma Hai Club.
And we know everybody wants to join the Ma Hai Club.
Right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So it's gonna work like this.
It's gonna be a subscription service for 250.
So normally I, I don't know if you guys know,
but normally I sell my cuts for $2,000 a Fino.
And I get that consistently.
Now this is one that you just discovered,
only one of one off.
Any, any Fino that I've hunted that I posted on Instagram,
a person can purchase from me for $2,000.
Gotcha.
Or if they buy multiples, I do deals as well.
Okay.
So the Ma Hai Club is for all the people
who can't afford that $2,000 price.
And they actually might get a better deal in the long run.
So what I'm gonna do with that is for $250 a year,
it's a subscription service by monthly.
You will get one cut from my keeper garden of my choice,
not your choice, by monthly.
So you'll get six of my cuts during the year for $250.
And they'll be having to pay $2,000 for one Fino.
So basically it's like a $12,000 value for 250 bucks.
I just get to pick which one you get.
And I'm not, you know, everything will go out.
There's nothing that's gonna be excluded.
Like, oh, this is the best.
It's not gonna go out.
Every, everybody's gonna get something of something.
So you might get the best cut in my garden.
You might get, you know, some other cut,
but you're gonna get something every other month
for that price.
That's a great marketing strategy, man.
I like that.
That's, and that's good because I like that, man.
A lot of people don't give back, you know,
give an opportunity for the smaller guy to get in.
Right.
And I understand not everybody can afford the $2,000.
The reason why I've kept that price point
is to kind of keep the genetics a little bit more exclusive
and to keep it from just being totally like,
you know, bastardized.
Like I'm not trying, you know,
it's like when you just let it go for just dirt cheap
and everybody has it,
then there's really no value to it.
The higher price point makes it a little bit more exclusive,
which, you know, drives the value up.
People want something, it's kind of like Louis Vuitton.
You know what I mean?
Like you can't, you might want Louis V,
but you can't get Louis V with a couple hundred bucks.
You gotta have Louis V money.
But so now I'm gonna offer the Louis Vuitton
to everybody with a couple hundred bucks,
but you just get a Louis V of my choice, not yours.
Yeah, Louis ain't even doing that, so.
Right.
Exactly my point.
Exactly.
So, you know, that could prove to be fairly lucrative
if I can get it, let's say a few thousand subscribers.
Yeah, definitely, man.
And so basically what you're saying is now
you've hunted a pack or a line, found this one,
Dante's Inferno number six or whatever,
that's your exclusive now.
And now you're saying, hey, I'm offering this.
If you guys want to see what you did
was you did the legwork of hunting through the seed
for the consumers, basically.
Years.
It literally took two years to find the Finos that I found.
That's years of legwork.
By eliminating that for a commercial cultivator,
even just an average tent grower, that's like, dude,
a ton of legwork you don't got to worry about.
Not only that, I can say, hey,
this Fino has gotten three of light outdoor,
it's gotten three of light under HPS, double-ended,
it's got three of light under LEDs.
This is a three of lighter, no matter what you put it under
is if you even have minimal growth skills.
Is that part of you?
You don't have to be a master grower.
Is that part of your selection?
Do you factor in the per lighter?
Yes.
Everything I keep hits between two and a half
and three and a half of light.
I don't keep anything less than that.
Another one for that, again, for marketing purposes,
like people are looking for things
that they're gonna produce that they can make money off of.
So, a commercial cultivator, yeah,
you want a three of lighter versus a one of lighter
or a two of lighter because that's gonna give you
the most money.
Now there would be, I'm sure there's a caveat to that,
crazy terp, unsmelled terp before
would kind of overrule a little bit of that.
Yes, as a matter of fact, I just found one recently.
Now it's a really short plant, but the terp profile
and the look is astronomical.
So I said, how can I still use this?
So I said, I got it.
I told my buddy, I said, look, we're gonna market this
as a low clearance pheno.
If you have rack systems or just not a lot of clearance,
this is the pheno for you.
It's super short, but it produces best quality flower
and it actually gave me a little bit over two of light,
which isn't bad.
That's solid.
Right, for a short plant, I was like,
dang, this thing is nice.
I'm definitely gonna keep this
and like, low clearance pheno.
And I have a couple like that.
So people with not a lot of headroom
can still grow something super fire,
not have to worry about it stretching into their lights.
Yeah, I like that.
That's just taking that and making a new opportunity
with something that nature gave you.
Right.
Do you mind kind of saying some of the genetics?
I guess some people are interested,
your Instagram is mile high day 420.
And do you mind maybe shooting out some of the genetics
you think our community might wanna check out
there's some chatter in the chat about all that.
Genetics in terms of that I've grown?
Stuck like, you're saying all your stuff's for two Gs,
right, which is a bold claim.
And so people wanna check that out.
So this is what I say.
Any pheno that I've hunted, I sell for two grand,
whether you think it's worth that or not.
The reason why I sell it for two grand,
because any pheno that I've hunted,
I put it at least a year and a half of work into,
I've run it at least three to four times
before I ever put it out there and say,
this is something for sale.
So I did all the testing, I did all the work,
my light bill's not cheap, my grow wasn't cheap.
I spent hundreds of thousands of dollars on R&D.
Like I said, sometimes I might spend $1,000 on packs
and get three seeds out of there that are viable.
So there's a lot of overhead on my end that I go through
to where I feel like it justifies this price point of $2,000
and again, that's not a hard price point.
There are some things that I work out with people,
like let's say you're a commercial grower
and you want 500 or 1,000 cuts.
Okay, anything over 500, I do the same thing,
but $20 a piece.
So I'll give you five phenos, you want 500 cuts,
I'll give you five phenos for $20 a piece.
And if you do the math,
it still equals two grand per genetic.
Really, that's what I'm selling, the genetic.
I don't really care about the amount of cuts as much
as per se as the genetic itself.
So even for like the single light grower,
I mean, for that, even if you wanted to go out on a limb,
and it wasn't even going out on a limb,
it would be investing in you for two Gs in your time
and you could recoup that in a couple of flips.
It's not the end of the world, I get it.
Listen, I understand the price is not for everybody.
I totally understand that.
The price, I've told people this in my DMs.
Listen, I understand, man, the price is not for everybody,
which is why I've come up with the Mile High Club,
which I believe is a price point for everybody.
You know what I mean?
And I think like, obviously some people feel some way,
other people want to know
if they've never heard of you before, two Gs, right?
So what are some of the genetics you feel like
are tried and true if somebody wanted to mess with you
with that? Dante's Inferno number eight,
definitely tried and true, guaranteed.
Like if you've spent two grand on that,
you're gonna make your money back on the first run
if you're running more than two lights
and you even have a medium level of grow proficiency.
Because there's also that part of recouping
that the streets wants, they want it again.
And if it's that kind of turp,
people are gonna want it again and again.
Absolutely, so that's the thing about the Dante six.
Now I was saying like it has a tendency to harm when stressed
but I'm actually scaling that one up right now
because so many people want it.
It's actually, I entered it in the Colorado Connoisseur Cup,
which is a seven month blind judging competition.
And it's gone on to the final round.
We'll find out if, you know,
what, who the winners are in about a month here,
but you know, I feel really good about it
because I know that it's so unique
that every single person who has smelled it
has just been like, wow, what is this?
And that's the thing, it's the reaction
that really tells me this is something
I should try to compete with, you know?
It's that reaction, like every single person,
there wasn't been one person, even my wife,
she doesn't even smoke.
And when I opened that up, she's like, oh my God, babe,
what is that?
Like, that smells so crazy.
She's like, geez, like, what is that?
She's like, ah, let me smell that again.
And like, she doesn't smoke.
So if a non-smoker is like, wow, what is that?
What does that tell you?
You got something special, man.
You know, I know it's something special.
So we'll see if she wins.
Yeah, you guys definitely check out
the Colorado Connoisseur Cup,
seven month blind judging competition.
I think one of the realest competitions in the state.
Seven months, God damn, what are they doing?
What's that process?
Just they get an hour?
So they set up judging sessions.
Like let's say you can come through
with a group of eight friends to their little compound
and you sit down and they have,
all the jars have numbers on them
and they have a hundred point judging system.
How much did you have to enter as far as your ounces?
I entered about an ounce each.
And then, so a round, I believe lasts like a month or two.
They have several rounds.
And then, so I entered an ounce per round.
Nice, good luck with that, man.
Thank you, thank you.
Yes, sir.
Yeah, I can't, I like the concentrates,
but I gotta maintain my flower
because I got stuff right now being judged as well.
And I have my own that I'm, you know,
seeing it through as they're, you know,
as the judges have it, I wanna know
what they're doing with it.
So yeah, definitely, man.
That unique, I think is key, man.
Especially though, if you're entering a competition,
everybody likes something that they have,
you know, have not smelled before, you know?
Right, well, that's why I try to stay away
from anything that's familiar in terms of,
when I'm looking for phenos,
anything that's really a familiar smell, I shy away from,
unless it's a familiar smell from decades ago.
Okay, yeah.
Then I'm more drawn to it.
Like I found this emergency pheno from Sea Junkie
that literally smells and tastes like OG Kush
from 20 plus years ago.
Keeper.
Yeah, and it's just, it's incredible.
Like I still, I haven't grown it out in a while,
but I still got my mom there, you know,
anytime I want to.
I was gonna ask you, do you just keep moms
in big pots or what do you do?
So I tend to recycle my moms every six months or so.
Once they get, you know, about eight feet or more,
I tend to chop them down.
I usually have like a small teen ready to take its place
at that point.
Yeah, when it comes to moms,
what's your view on that when it starts to get
like a little bit of that woody feel to it,
starts to almost bark out, you know?
Do you feel like those are still viable
or you kind of just?
Yeah, usually like it starts to get like that
about after six months is when I tend to chop them.
I tend to call my moms every six months.
I don't usually like to let them go longer than that.
That's just a practice I've always had.
And I think more individuals now,
they do like a perpetual harvest.
So that was interesting to,
I guess you have a, if you're selling cuts,
you need that, that's.
Yeah, when you say perpetual,
do you mean they just take cuttings of cuttings?
Yeah, there's usually like,
it's kind of like they have a mom for each round.
So they just kind of take from.
Right, yeah, I know guys that do that.
I tend to like to keep my moms around as long as possible
to keep the generations from,
so genetic drift is a real thing.
But I also think from what I see,
if you keep the strongest of your cuttings
for the next generation mom,
that genetic drift doesn't really happen as much.
So like usually you get the drift
when you keep the weak.
You're familiar with Ethos Genetics?
Because he's made a pretty compelling argument to me
why the genetic drift doesn't exist.
So maybe a future show,
we can show the community
that we can have disagreements on things.
Yeah, I wouldn't mind.
Because like you can't,
don't quote me on that as fact
when I say genetic drift is real.
So what I mean by that is
when you have the smaller run to your plant or clone
and you tend to take that as your next mom,
you'll notice differences in the final product.
And that's probably,
that could have to do with genetic drift,
which is what I've heard as the explanation.
That could also be have to do with like,
you know, viroids or pathogens.
Sometimes like HLV is in,
HLVD is in everybody's garden, I believe.
I test for it.
I've had it in my own garden.
I've tested, you know, gotten rid of the plants,
but I believe it's something that
if you do the research on it,
it's actually been around for decades since like the 60s.
So it was probably in people's gardens
before any of us were ever testing for it.
And I think it like when it expressed itself,
people be like, oh, this runty,
like all these clones with this one looks runty and weird.
Throw that one out.
That was probably the one that was expressing the HLVD
even though everything else in the garden has it.
I can see that because just like anything else, man,
and when things are kind of imbalanced,
good and bad can be right there.
So that could make sense for sure.
And a lot of this is coming about when
people are taking that runty
or that plant is not as healthy,
kind of probably nursing it back
and then trading it and doing all that.
Right, and a lot of times that plant
won't give you the same end result product
as the one that was more healthy in the beginning.
And they'll take that as genetic drift,
but that really could just be the lack,
the fact that you started with a plant that was less healthy.
Yeah, I have heard that for sure.
Definitely starting with runty, the beat up clones,
it doesn't help your end product for sure.
Right.
So I guess you call it drift, call it whatever you want.
It's just not the same as if you started
with a more healthy, healthy plant.
Well, was that gentleman saying, Brian,
more like it's exactly the same,
for it would take thousands of years
for the drift to take place?
Is that kind of what he was saying?
And that actually makes sense.
All right, so he's on another level, man.
I would say the basic way I could break it down
is he's saying a plant that doesn't,
in nature doesn't live as long as that.
So what you're really doing is just growing out plants,
mothers longer than you should.
You're having weaker genetics,
and that's where that's actually coming from.
And I probably butchered that from a scientific aspect.
That makes a little bit of sense though.
Yeah, I kind of get it.
I kind of get what you're saying.
Yeah, this is upper level stuff, man.
I like to smoke it.
I love that we have the show where we can talk about it.
But to break it down where these breeders,
especially some of those elite breeders can discuss,
eye opening.
And so I think that'd be even a fun topic
just to open some of those Pandora's box.
Absolutely, and even though I know how to breed myself,
I'll be the first one to tell you,
I'm not an elite breeder.
I'm still learning a lot of aspects of breeding
on a daily basis myself.
I'm constantly looking to improve my craft.
So breeding as I get into it more,
I'll just be learning more daily.
Definitely, that's the key to it, man,
is learning every day.
You think you got it down, you think you got some pollen,
you figured out how to store it right,
and then it's not viable.
So it's always good to learn in the process.
Yeah, all right.
I like that mile high club though.
That sounds like a winner, man.
I like that.
Thank you, thank you.
Yeah, I mean, everybody wants to join the mile high club.
Yeah.
So I guess just to clarify again,
besides like the Dante Inferno,
do you have some other genetics
that you think individuals would want to pop off with?
I've seen a couple of people asking about that.
In my garden personally, or just in general?
Well, like if I were, I guess,
so I sell these fancy isopods, right?
Some of them command a certain price point.
I guess if some people didn't know how long it was,
they'd probably laugh at me too, right?
Right.
So when I explained that to them,
I would say like, the Cubarus species.
So these genetics are the ones
that you would want to put 2K on.
Are there some other genetics that you want to,
trying to help you sell cuts if you really want to,
because you got to respect it, man.
And I know some people feel a certain way too,
but if a man's willing to put it out there
and the genetics are behind.
I would say that I have something for everybody.
I don't think that anything in my garden
in terms of keepers that I kept
really like surpasses anything else.
If you're a sugar candy turp guy, I got the cut for you.
If you're a gasoline guy and you like deep purple,
I got the cut for you.
If you're somebody that wants something in between,
I got the cut for you.
They're all at the same price point
because I believe they're all equally good.
They all produce equally well.
They're just on different flavor spectrums
for different tastes out there.
So it really depends on what you like.
If there's a particular flavor profile you're looking for,
chances are I have it for you.
So would you say that like, all right,
if I'm a young guy and I'm, I want to start breeding,
so I'm gonna hit mile high Dave up for some cuts.
Now, am I going to be, is that going to be stable stuff
where I can kind of take that?
Oh yeah.
Everything I sell, like I said,
everything I sell I've run multiple times.
So I don't ever release anything.
And this is why I don't really release the Dante 6 anymore
is because it has that slight tendency to herm.
So, you know, that's not something
the average grower wants to deal with.
So therefore, like, even though in my mind,
the risk is worth the reward,
that might not be everybody else's mind.
I've had guys who have got that cut actually
and have freaked the fuck out and destroyed
their whole gardens because they saw some herms.
And I've also had guys that have got that cut,
saw some herms, trimmed them off and grew it out
and loved it more than anything.
So, you know, it's really,
I do think I have something for everybody.
If it comes to like, what do I recommend that I have
that I've hunted?
I think right now, some of the best stuff that I have
is the Dante's Inferno, the Pink Z Skittles,
the Ripped Off Runts from Sea Junkie
is probably like my top three.
You feel like people are still,
people are still rocking with the Runts here in Denver?
I'm kind of out of the loop on that.
This Ripped Off Runts Pheno I have is a little bit different
than the Runts that was floating around.
And like I said, like Runts is something now,
even it really comes down to phenotypes.
Like I've had some Runts out there that are candy.
I've had Runts out there that are crazy gassy.
So it really just depends on who you're getting it from,
in my opinion.
What do you think, what would you recommend?
Being an older guy, much experience in the game,
knowing how to grow, growing all kinds of genetics.
Telling a young guy, would you say invest
in a pack of seeds or go to a clone,
you know, kind of a established clone?
I would say, how much time do you have?
So if you have time, I would say invest in the seeds.
If you don't have any time and you're looking
for immediate profit, I would say invest in the clones.
That makes sense.
As far as-
Yeah, if you have time and you're, and then, you know,
like for me, I love, I don't think I'll ever stop
popping packs of seeds, no matter how many good cuts I have.
Some people don't wanna deal with any of that.
They just want to find the good cut to grow.
So if that's what you're looking for,
I say just buy the cut.
You know, if you're looking,
if you enjoy the thrill of the hunt, like me, buy the seeds.
If you're just looking for that one good cut,
look for that one good cut and buy it and just grow it up.
What did he say?
He wanted a 50 day, 30, man.
Good luck, homie.
Yeah, man, I thought that was funny.
I will tell you, man, a shout out to Genome.
I need to give him a report back on his stuff,
Genome Alchemy, his Fantasia.
I'm running it again, but I mean, wonderful stuff.
I found one that went 58 days, so I'm running them again.
I gotta make sure I got three phenos.
Running them again, man, but that 58 day, that would be key.
I'm gonna be excited if that comes in, you know, again,
58 and terpy as it was.
So yeah, man, like supporting, you know,
good breeders with good genetics.
To me, that's been the key because I'm, man,
over the years, think about all the stuff you've bought,
different seeds, shit that didn't produce or did grow
and it wasn't what they said it was, you know?
So that adds up, man.
So it is important, man, when you're starting out,
you gotta invest in something at least quality.
And let me just add on top of that,
not only supporting the breeder,
but I think it's really important.
I think a lot of people even lose sight of this.
It's really important for the breeder
to support the grower that's making them look good.
Amen to that.
I'm not gonna name any names,
but I've had breeders try to play me.
Several big breeders in the industry
have tried to play me already, like a fiddle, you know?
And from terms of, hey man, give me,
if you give me all your best cuts that you've hunted,
I'll give you seeds.
And you're just, your association with us is like promotion.
Oh, for you, like.
Yeah.
Like, people always say that.
Exposure.
Basically, he wants me to give him
all my years of fucking hunting and work,
and in return, he's gonna give me more seeds,
which pushed me back at step one.
And then they're gonna take those seeds,
they're gonna take my cuts, breed with it,
make seeds, make hundreds of thousands,
millions of dollars, and in return, give me seeds.
So yeah, I've had some weird offers come at me, man.
I've had breeders tell me that I couldn't sell my cuts
on their, on the site they were affiliated with,
and then buy my cut, and then take my pictures
off of Instagram and use my name
to try to sell the cut anyway.
Yeah, so I've had some crazy stuff happen.
So yeah, on that note, my thing is this.
If you're a breeder out there,
take care of the growers that make you look good,
because not all the growers are dummies,
and you try to play the wrong one,
and it's gonna come back and bite you.
Yeah, that's a mean world there, cold world.
You ever met Gino Malkamy?
Who?
Gino Malkamy, his name's Greg.
Uh-uh.
Man, y'all might, I mean, he's a,
what I like is like two different worlds.
So both you boys would represent
obviously the two different worlds.
He's obviously more on this side of the fence.
But I think when you're talking breeding
and that kind of thing,
I've always kind of sat back in awe sometimes.
It used to be at the Indo Expos,
where you'd hear just bright-minded people
kind of breaking stuff down
when everybody's passing around and getting stung.
And a lot of his stuff,
and probably other individuals that you know,
they're not about the hype.
So the good stuff is really more
you gotta do the research yourself in your local area,
find those individuals that are tried and true
that might not necessarily be the biggest social media
savant.
Because that's, you know,
they're too busy putting in the work in the garden
and that's the kind of stuff.
And more people have realized that
getting burned on the back end
by putting up the money like you had spoke on
where you think, oh, all right.
Especially when you first start out, man,
you think that you would get better,
or at least in my experience,
I thought I would get some better genetics
for the amount of money that I spent on it.
Granted, I was, you know,
my skill sets weren't there and stuff,
but it still didn't feel right.
I spent over $10,000 and 80% of that stuff was just trash.
That's where it ended up in the garbage.
You know, and that's just because
a lot of those breeders,
they're not taking the time
to make sure they're putting out good stuff.
They're just pumping it out.
Like I know for a fact,
there's a lot of breeders out there.
They just make like F1 regs, right?
And they put them out there.
And then when guys like me find keepers,
they turn around, buy the keeper from the grower,
and then sell that as their breeder cut.
So yeah, bizarre, bro.
Like don't do any work at all.
Just like put out cuts
and try to make money off of other people's work.
It's just out there to me, just bizarre.
So that's why I kind of like,
one of the other things that kind of pushed me
into breeding my own stuff too is like,
I don't like that feeling of doing all this work
and then have somebody saying,
well, I made the seeds, I deserve all the credit.
You know, like, yeah, you deserve your credit.
I'm not gonna like, you know,
good breeding stock is half the battle.
If I don't have good breeding stock,
I'm never gonna find anything good.
So I appreciate the breeders and everything that they do.
But I don't like feeling underappreciated by breeders
who think they're gonna either take advantage of me,
or walk all over me because, you know,
I work too hard for what I do.
Like if I put in three years hunting your gear
to find the best of the best, you should respect that.
So what are your thoughts on when can you change the name?
Or when do you, you know, like you've got, you know,
you got a pack, you're gonna start,
you're hunting it, you find something,
when can you kind of make it happen?
My whole thing is, so, our naming stuff is,
if a pack doesn't have a name,
like let's say it just had a cross on the pack,
that's wide open to name any single Fino.
If the cross on the pack was like
Trap Cookies times Gelato 33,
you can name that whatever Fino, whatever you want.
If the pack already had a name, like for instance,
like Dante's Inferno already had a name,
again, I feel like you can name it whatever you want,
but I like to give those packs that already have,
I like to call it the same name and just give it a number.
You know, and that's my respect to the breeder.
Now, if I take that and I make something else with it,
like let's say my Dante's Inferno Mahi Dave Cut,
that's probably the most well-recognized,
well-known Fino out of all the ones I've hunted,
Mahi Dave Cut.
So if I take something, if I take that
and I make something else with it,
you know, that to me in my mind is free reign.
You know, once you take that and you make something else,
you do whatever you want.
But at the end of the day, it's a plant.
I try not to get, you know, all in my feelings about it.
You know, it's a plant, it's there for all of us to enjoy.
So if you find something beautiful from it
and you wanna name it whatever the fuck
you wanna name it, do that.
You know, don't let nothing stop you.
You don't owe anybody any loyalties.
If you bought a pack from a breeder
and you paid your hard-earned money for it,
you deserve to do whatever you want
with the seeds that you cultivate.
I think I can agree with that.
I think though, from the way I look at it,
I like to keep a little bit of that original name in there.
And what that does is it doesn't like,
all right, a big part of people of color
they try to take our history, right?
When you don't know your history, it takes a lot from you.
So it's the same way with plants.
Like if you go just now put this out
and cut the history off, now what people are getting,
they don't quite know what they got.
And there's so much of that in the cannabis industry.
It's sad.
All these people, you know, take other people's work
and wanna profit off it without giving any recognition
because, oh, once they have the, like I said, it's a plant.
So once you have the plant and they all look like
just like any other plant until you actually flower it out,
you can call it whatever you want.
You know, I know seed junkie at one time
used to give out all kinds of testers and stuff.
He stopped doing that because so many people
started genetic companies off of his testers.
You know what I mean?
So, I mean, I get it.
I understand their motivation.
Like, yeah, they wanna do your own thing.
It's like somebody was saying to me,
the other day, it was like, you know,
in terms of learning something from somebody
and they were like, man, you don't get mad when somebody,
you know, you teach them how to do something
and then they just go do it.
And I said, listen, that's the nature of progression.
If you're learning something from someone
and you don't reach a point to where you wanna do it
on your own, you're not fucking learning anything.
Period.
So if you learn, no matter what your craft is,
if you're learning, you should always wanna,
at some point, say, I've learned enough.
I wanna do this on my own.
You know, so I don't get upset at anybody
that wants to do their own thing.
I try to pay respect to the breeders that respect me.
If I feel disrespected or if you outright disrespect me
in any way in what I do,
then I just don't mess with you no more.
I don't do business with you.
You're not getting any promotion from me whatsoever.
And there's a couple like that already.
I mean, you know, it is what it is.
It's the nature of any business.
There's never gonna be 100% good people
who are stand up in any industry and cannabis included.
Even though we do this for the love,
not everybody does this for the love.
Yeah, it seems like about 50-50 sometimes,
like half the people wanna do the right thing,
the other half just wanna get into the pockets
of the people that wanna do it.
Exactly, all about profit.
Yeah, that's what's annoying about it, man,
because there's room for everybody.
And even with these, if anybody's ever bred seeds
or even had something pollinate on you,
man, you get for fricking hundreds of seeds.
You know, 50 seeds can be in a bud sometimes,
you know what I mean?
So that's why a lot of guys do spread that love
and share those genetics.
But on the same token,
you do kinda wanna get a little recognition
if you did the work in a way.
But in a way that's flattery,
when they're trying to rip you off
and be you or sell shit in your name,
make accounts to look like you.
Oh yeah, I got a little scam accounts
on Instagram are ridiculous.
I got those guys too.
I just...
I just don't understand.
If they put that same energy into doing something legitimate,
those guys could be great.
Like why put all that energy into ripping people off?
Bizarre.
It don't make sense, man.
That's what we deal with.
Yeah, bizarre.
Yeah, man.
So yeah, definitely, man.
Seeds, I love popping seeds.
To me, that's key.
That's how you gonna always find something new.
You know, that new turf, you know what I mean?
And I found that the burnt electricity,
kind of that electrical fire turf.
You know, it sounds crazy, but I'm running it again.
I wanna see if that's actually in there, man,
because it's something that I have never smelled before.
So I wanna run it again.
Definitely, I always recommend running things
two, three times myself too, man,
before you really look. Absolutely.
Yeah, before you give a good review on it.
Absolutely, because you can run something one time
and run it again, and it's not the same.
So that's why I say I run things two, three times
before I ever put it out to market.
Yeah, my dad, man, he ran this strain
that was like from a seed bank
that was not even reputable, right?
That was fire, so frosty, so nice under OHPS
that I gave him.
I'm like, damn, well, I want this.
I took it, ran it under LED.
It was bunk.
So I was like, it didn't make sense, you know?
That's what I was saying.
Like my Dante 8, it's been run under every condition,
LED, outdoor, HPS, and every single cultivator
who's run it has been like, dude, this thing is just,
it throws down, like it's beautiful.
Send me pictures, I'm like, okay,
this is one that does well in any condition.
Yeah, I notice a lot of times, though, man,
stuff seems like when it's like fire indoors,
I mean, limited experience since we're just
gonna legalize outdoor here recently.
But the little stuff I've grown
where it's been really fire indoors
and then take it outdoors, it's different,
you know what I mean?
And so I'm looking to find those strains
that are also good for outdoors.
It's very rare that you find phenos
that do well in any lighting situation.
And you say your Dante's 8 or the Mile High?
Yeah, the Dante 8 Mile High Dave Cut does well
in any outdoor, light depot, LED, HPS,
every single person I've known.
Organic grown, Lion Bolt Farms runs that cut
and they run organic, no-till, you know, soil, living soil,
and they have phenomenal results with it.
Looks beautiful, comes out same flavor profile, great.
So I got a buddy up in Aspen that runs it outdoors,
light depot in the spring, he sends me pictures,
it looks beautiful.
So I know that it does well.
I have another buddy here up in Fort Collins area
that runs it in HPS and it does, again, does beautiful.
So I know that it does well under any conditions.
I run it consistently with LEDs
and I've never been disappointed.
Speaking of disappointed, when you're pheno hunting,
are you sometimes like going through auto packs
or is that not in your wheelhouse with your style?
Are you running through feminized seeds
or is everything regs?
Like what's your philosophy on that?
I usually pop regs or fems.
I've been doing more fems lately because regs can,
you know, they're just more work.
I tend to send the regs off for sex testing
after a few weeks to kind of weed out the males early.
But even then, like regs, so with fems,
you tend to find more herms.
With regs, you know, you just have less females.
So those are like the pros and cons.
With regs, I find you get more diverse phenos
and often better phenotypes than with fems.
But fems can give you really good phenos,
especially depending on the fem type.
Like if you get a good S1,
you can find something better than the original,
you know, very possible.
Yeah, that's my experience too, is the S1s, man.
They can be better for sure.
Right, just have a tendency to herm
a little bit more in my opinion.
Yeah, we, you know, Marco and I wanna respect your time, sir.
So there's just five questions here
that we kinda wanna rapid fire to you.
Yeah, no worries.
Early on, somebody wanted a rotten skateboard.
Here it is, one guy.
I wanted to know about,
do you add fulvic acids to Athena feeds?
No, I don't add anything to the Athena feed.
I just use, I run the Proline only.
I don't add any extra additives or anything like that.
What is that, three, you said that's three inputs
with the Proline?
Yeah, three inputs.
Three salts.
And then they have the balance,
which is, you know, their pH up.
And then they have the core,
or they have the cleanse, balance, core,
and the grow and the bloom.
So, you know, during veg, I'm using the grow.
During flour, I'm using the bloom.
But all the other ingredients pretty much stay the same.
Just the ratios are adjusted slightly.
Here's kind of more of that rapid fire,
because you went over this,
but anything to add to your answer beforehand?
I run ThinkGrow LEDs.
The genetics I run can vary.
I'm constantly phenohunting, like I said,
so there's always some new genetics in the room
as well as old genetics.
I have three tables, so I tend to run
the tried and true genetics on two tables,
and I tend to run phenohunts on one table,
so it's always multiple things being run in the room.
I'm running ThinkGrow LEDs.
I run them with the UV lights during the last four weeks
to speed up resin production,
as well as they help them finish a little early,
so I tend to get like 70-day results out of 64 days.
Are you flooding the tables, or are you doing drip?
I flood the tables.
Okay.
I have drippers, but they're like fast drippers,
not slow ones.
Anything to add to this one?
So I found the strain Dante's Inferno Mahai cut.
The strain was created by Clearwater Buds,
and I believe Tiki Man Man was a collab,
but from what I understand,
Clearwater did all the breeding on that one.
The Mahai Dave cut is the one that I hunted.
Took me about two years to find,
along with the number six cut,
so yeah, that's the one that I put out the most.
That's the one that I'm probably most known for.
When they say, is he talking about,
what are they referring to?
Well, this is Chris Guerrero.
I said a lot of things about breeders.
Yeah, I think this is more when you were kind of like
talking about some breeders that are more mom and pop.
I think that was when this question came up, so.
Okay, yeah.
People love hearing that.
That's kind of who they want to support.
Soaking beans is definitely more of a mom and pop operation,
and they're local to Northern Colorado, yeah.
And this is the last question for you.
Can I compare Athena to Jax 123 and Master Blend Tomato?
I haven't used Jax 123 or Master Blend Tomato,
so I cannot compare them.
Marco, you have any experience with Jax?
I think so.
Oh, no, man.
Just talking to you is bringing back a lot of memories,
you know, like, you know,
just salts and all that good stuff, man.
That's not so good anymore to me, you know what I mean?
But I remember the days, man.
And it sounds like, at least from the sense of
using the salts, and you, you know,
it seems like Athena has at least dialed it down
to where, you know, I remember there used to be like
eight to 10 different bottles and concoctions of shit
that would be with some of these lines,
you know what I mean?
And it really got crazy, so.
Well, I think a lot of that's a money grab.
Yeah.
It's not even a necessity, it's just a money grab.
That's why I like Athena.
Like, yeah, okay, they're a company
that wants to make money,
but they're not just trying to grab money
from your pockets at every angle.
They actually do things for the culture.
Right.
Which I respect highly.
Yeah, and that's what it seems like,
kind of now, if you were into it, yeah,
that would be a much better option
than some of these things that I've used in the past,
like money grabs, sending 90% water
and all that shit in the mail, you know,
or buying it, all the same.
But definitely, and for the, you know,
the audience, man, we appreciate everybody.
And this is a show for growers, man.
We're not always gonna have everybody
that's all about like-minded
and doing everything exactly like you do,
because you don't really grow that way,
you know what I mean?
So we're trying to give everybody the options
to speak their mind, say what they're working with,
and talk growing, you know, that's all.
And like I said, I appreciate everything
organic growers do.
Organic growers have given me
some of the best smoke I've ever had.
So I'm not gonna, you know,
knock it, the process in any way, shape, or form.
They say there's more than one ways to skin a cat,
you know what I mean?
Just because there's more than one way
to make a fancy dish, you know?
So we're all here cooking it up.
I think, you know, as long as your end result
is something that the consumer says,
yeah, I like that, that's all that matters.
Yeah, that's key.
That's definitely key, man.
We're all cooking it up.
And most of the time we're just eating our own food anyway.
So, you know, if you want that organic,
cook that organic, you know what I mean?
That's what I'm saying.
If you want to rock with the salts, rock with them, try them.
It's up to you, man.
As far as food goes, I only eat organic food,
so I'm not knocking the organic lifestyle at all.
Exactly, see, now I'm gonna go to you.
Exactly, you want that good organic food.
I got all organic heirloom seeds, man.
I'm waiting for the spring to fully hit
so I can plant my organic garden in my backyard.
Trust me, I'm all about that life.
But just when it comes to growing cannabis,
salts is for me.
And I personally don't believe, you know,
there's gonna be lots of arguments about it,
but I personally don't believe
that the plant really knows the difference
between organic nutrient molecules
or synthetic nutrient molecules.
They uptake them the same way, you know?
You wanted to light the bridge on fire, bro.
We're gonna have a month long discussion.
I already know, I'm a Ford and Chevy, here we go.
Exactly, exactly.
But yeah, man, so damn, the Q&A went a lot quicker
than we thought.
I had, oh, square root number seven.
You didn't talk about that one, did you?
I got another 20 minutes or so,
so we can go for a walk.
All right.
Your square root number seven.
Yeah, did you talk about that one at all?
No, I don't think we did.
That's actually a Pheno that I just hunted from Bee Leaf.
So he sent me some tester packs
of daily grape times dip and sticks a few months back.
Finally got the square root, finally got it into the run.
When I messaged him, I was like,
hey, I got this really good Pheno.
He's like, oh, we named that one square root.
I was like, cool.
I like the name a little bit,
but I decided to call my Pheno Mahi Fun Dip,
which I feel is a little bit more in line
with what the flavor profile is like.
It's very much akin to raspberry and cherry fun dip,
the candy, the little dip, the fun dip candy,
and with a little bit of skunk on the back end.
And I really enjoy the flavor profile.
I finally had a little bit of it dry here.
I gave some to my friend of mine,
and he just won't stop asking me for more.
So that right there is my first clue
that I'm onto something good.
And he said the high was just incredible.
So he said he didn't really expect the high
to be that good because he said the fruity stuff
in his mind doesn't always smoke as good as the gassy stuff.
And I think that's just a mental thing.
Again, we're going back to what people like,
what they've told themselves is the best.
In some people's mind, the best thing is
some great flavored, artificial great flavored flower
they had, and other people's mind,
the best thing is some skunk number one
or some OG Kush they had, and that just sticks.
Once you decide this is the best flavor profile,
it just stays with you like that.
I will say that with Bee Leaf stuff,
his gassy strains seem to be kind of more hit harder for me.
Yeah, right.
I ran some of the dip and stick stuff,
and while growing, it really was very fruity,
and some of it just didn't translate into the smoke,
but I didn't like wash it or anything like that,
but just to the flower.
He loves his gas anyway, so he just kind of seems
like he's getting on board with some of the fruity stuff.
Right.
See that question, Dave?
The single greatest trade I hunt for in veg,
I would say, I just look for vigor, man.
Plants that are the most vigorous,
that's large, family, but I don't look for traits in veg
to decide on keepers.
That's just not the way to do it.
You can have a plant in veg that looks ugly as hell, man,
and it'll flower and just be the most beautiful thing ever.
I don't look for traits in veg in terms of keepers.
I just look for strength traits in veg,
like, oh, this plant is vigorous.
Keep an eye on that, but at the end of the day,
I don't decide what's good until the last week seven,
week eight, and even after cure
is when I might make the final decision
and be like, yeah, this is the one,
because sometimes flavor profiles can change
after 14 days of drying.
Well, what are your thoughts to kind of wrap all that?
What are your thoughts on kind of how
the industry is moving?
From our point of view, from the regenerative side of things,
I guess this is more my view,
is that Michigan is kind of taking hold,
where Colorado is behind the scenes,
California is behind the scenes now.
Some of the brighter mind individuals are up there,
not only growing, but washing.
Right.
Do you feel like in your world,
Denver's starting to fall behind as well,
or do you think on that side of things,
we're still kicking it?
I think Colorado is still putting out
some of the best flower, especially with me here.
Yeah, that was a shameless plug.
Um.
No, honestly.
Honestly, I think Colorado is still putting out
some of the best flower I've seen.
I actually grew up in Southern California.
I wasn't born there.
I was born on the East Coast,
and my family moved to Southern California.
I was about a year old, so I pretty much grew up there
during my teen, age 20, early 20s.
And California was known for having the best flower.
Like I used to have friends that would go to Amsterdam,
and they'd be like, dude, the flower here in Cali
is better than Amsterdam.
And I moved to Colorado,
and I honestly thought the flower here
when I first moved here 15 years ago
was better than a lot of the stuff
that I was seeing in California.
I think today, the market is so saturated
with mid-grade growers that it's hard for people
to distinguish where the best herb is coming from.
Like at one time, like I said, it was California,
but now California is so saturated with low-quality flower
that not too many, I mean,
some people still say Cali got the best weed.
I don't really think that's the truth at all.
I think the flower coming out of,
from some of the best grows here in Colorado
is better than anything I see coming out of California.
Not to say that there's bad growers in California.
There's a lot of guys doing great things.
There's a lot of guys putting out
top-quality flower out there.
There's just a lot more putting out
low-quality flower out there.
There's a lot of mids in the world.
People don't even know it.
They don't even know what's in it.
There's a lot of mids, man, from Oklahoma to California,
even to Colorado.
There's a lot of, I go into dispensaries here all the time
because I like to smoke concentrates.
So, you know, I go into dispensaries,
I'll buy that a hundred dollar gram,
a 7-10 ice water hash,
and just to get a different flavor profile on my palate.
And I always look at the flower
and just got to shake my head.
Like, who the fuck is growing this shit?
Because it looks terrible.
Even the trim, man.
The people, the trim is a lost art.
Now it's just like nip them and put them out there.
Trim is a big deal.
Yeah, I hand trim everything.
I'm a firm believer in that.
I know a lot of people that like to bag trim
or machine trim.
I'm a hundred percent, I like to touch everything
with my hands.
I just love to hand trim.
I wanted to ask you, this day and age,
since you do have your own ability
to kind of create Instagrams and all that,
magazines aren't necessarily like,
I was through a dinosaur in a way,
but what they represent sometimes is still there.
So now that you've been recognized by High Times,
do you notice like a bump in sales?
Does that still exist?
Or is that just kind of like, it gives you-
Every time I get a post,
every time I get a repost from a larger profile
on Instagram, I get a bump in sales.
Any single, like if I post like the Mahi Dave cut
and it gets reposted by like Athena,
they have a hundred plus thousand followers,
my inbox gets inundated with, hey, can I buy that cut?
Can I buy that cut?
Out of a hundred people that might message me,
I tell them all it's $2,000 a cut, maybe five will bite.
And that's okay because I don't want a hundred people
to be able to afford the cut.
And for that reason,
because I don't want the market to be oversaturated
with it right away.
I understand that saturation is a thing that takes time.
And if you have a cut, it's only a matter of time
before it gets everywhere.
And I realize there's guys out there who will buy it
for the high price and turn around
and resell it for a low price.
All these things-
That's what I was just about to ask you.
So do you wanna go deeper on that?
Yeah, I've had all these things happen.
And so when it comes to that, when somebody says,
hey man, is this cut like your cut?
If I can verify that it is, I will.
I don't have a problem.
Even if you're gonna get it for cheaper,
I'll go ahead and verify.
I'll say, yeah.
I'll ask them, who'd you get the cut from?
If they say, they got it from this person
and I can kind of trace the lineage back to me,
then okay, cool.
Yeah, that's legit.
If I can't verify, like one guy mentioned,
he's like, hey man, this looked like your cut.
And I was like, who'd you get it from?
He's like, oh, I got it from a guy who hustles.
He doesn't like to say who he got it.
I was like, well, I can't verify that, bro.
I can't verify anything coming from a hustler.
You know, like what are you talking about?
You don't wanna tell me who you got it from.
It probably ain't real.
So, you know, I don't get upset at stuff like that.
What I explain to people is I do monthly testing
for HLVD plus 10 plus viroids and pathogens
on all my mothers.
I run an extremely tight, clean grow.
If you get something from me,
100% you're gonna get what it is.
You might buy something from someone else
and they tell you, hey, this is the Maha Dave cut
and you might be buying some random Dante's Inferno.
Some dude grew out and decided to call it
the Maha Dave cut, or you might be buying something
infected with a viroid or a pathogen or HLVD.
Those are all risks you're taking by saying,
hey, I'm gonna go somewhere else and get,
instead of getting it from you.
So I've had people, you know,
message me with buyer's remorse.
Oh, hey man, is this your,
I'm like, dude, I know for a fact
you just bought that from a scammer.
And they're like, dang man, I'm like, look,
I understand you're trying to save money,
but which again, which brings me back to why
I came up with the whole Maha club concept
is because I don't like to see people get ripped off
in my using, by somebody using my name.
So I think I can curb a lot of that
by offering this monthly, bi-monthly subscription,
you know, a couple hundred dollars for the whole year.
You're gonna get six of my best cuts
throughout the year.
All right, good.
Well, I don't think we have any more questions, man.
How are you looking on,
what'd you say, you gotta go to practice?
Yeah, my son has football practice in about 10 minutes here.
So I'm gonna go ahead and do that.
All right, that's what's up, man.
I appreciate you dropping everything that you did on us.
And like I said, man, we're all growers here.
It's good to hear different perspectives,
you know what I mean?
You know, I'm still gonna run my stuff
and you're gonna still run your stuff
and we're gonna keep doing what we do.
And you know what I mean?
And that's just kind of what makes the community
what it is, man.
It's diverse.
There's a lot of different ways to do the same thing.
And you know, it is what it is.
Absolutely, there's more than one way to make a gourmet meal
and just because you're using organic ingredients
versus some factory ingredients
doesn't mean your meal is gonna come out any less.
Well, actually with food,
I might argue that organic is better.
Yes.
But yeah, man.
And also, Brian, I'll be in Denver this weekend.
If you want some samples, dude,
I can bring you some samples of some stuff
I just pulled down.
Yeah, man, I'll be at Repticon.
I don't know if that's it, but yeah, man,
I'll be there if I can link up with you at some point.
Okay, yeah, definitely.
At any time, it'd be cool to kind of rock with you, man.
Like I had mentioned, you're well known.
Like there's a wind, a whisper about you in the industry.
It's been like that for a few years now.
Well, thank you.
Thank you.
I'm just trying to build my brand and build my name
and really just bring the best quality flour
that I can find to the masses.
That's my ultimate goal.
And remember everybody out there,
if you can't afford that price or it's not for you,
he told you as breeders, you can go pick up, get a pack.
You can search and take the time and find your own phenos.
You don't have to-
Or you can wait about a month
for the Mile High Club to drop
and you can get six cuts a year at random.
I guarantee you, I'll be giving out the Mile High Dave cut
as well as everything else
that's in the top of my genetics library.
There you go.
I think, too, with...
People feel a certain way about politics, right?
And then obviously people feel almost like another level
of belief system when you're talking religion.
And for some people, I think with cannabis,
it's almost like they're above that with religion
on how they believe and it's cultish.
So what I hope from this point on,
and Marco is in the same boat,
is that we can have discussions.
We can have people on the show
so it wouldn't be necessarily always one-sided.
And that doesn't necessarily mean
that our goal is to change your mind
or we're bringing you on so you can change our minds.
It's more of, if you're growing high-end cannabis,
you're being recognized by some of the old school,
granted the high times kind of lost its luster a little bit,
but it still has a nostalgia,
especially to some people that are newer into this.
So to be recognized by that,
you're obviously doing something correct.
And to have the whisper, like I was saying,
in the industry,
then you're consistently putting stuff out there.
And that's what it's about,
even though we might not see eye to eye
on getting to the end goal.
I think at the same time,
we can learn a lot from each other
and hopefully also see that we're not,
if we were working more together as a group,
as just cannabis individuals,
there would be a lot bigger voice.
And I know that's probably never gonna happen,
but I just-
I don't do the organic versus salt wars.
I see some of those guys get into that shit.
I just laugh and shake my head
because at the end of the day,
like I said, it's like Ford and Chevy.
Dude, we're talking cars here.
You like it or not?
So I feel the same way with cannabis.
It's like, I'm not really too big on how you grew it,
as long as you weren't using a fuck ton of chemicals
and pesticides and really harsh stuff in your grow.
I support every grow method on the market.
Yeah, right on.
And I guarantee people are learning a lot,
especially from coming with the cuts.
And it's more to the consistency,
the hype breeders that kind of come and go.
And it takes years for you as an individual
to probably see that for yourself,
unless you got a network
and realize that you're gonna make some mistakes.
You're gonna buy some packs that are gonna be duds.
The best way I, someone explained it to me
is these are lottery tickets, bro.
So just be kind of knowing that you gotta put money up that
and realize that even in the lottery, right?
It's fixed.
So a lot of these things are fixed.
And if you kind of change that mindset,
you're not gonna feel the sting as much as I.
Yes, 100%.
All right, Marco, you wanna shout out anything
and Mile High after Marco speaks,
we'll kind of give you that last word on if,
you wanna hype the,
all of the things that you're doing, sir.
Oh yeah, definitely.
Yeah, man, I'm just, I'm kind of doing the same thing.
I appreciate everybody is still ordering things
off the website.
I've got all my orders out yesterday.
Appreciate that support.
And more importantly, your garden will love that IMO.
So yeah, man, we're just kind of doing the same thing.
Shout out Gary Gardens, man.
I haven't talked to him in a while.
Turk Farmer, VA Grows, another good guy.
Other than that, man, just catch me here.
We're thinking about moving the show to Thursday.
So, you know, we'll see how it goes.
Hey, well, thank you guys for having me on.
I appreciate it.
I enjoyed the talk.
I think I got some good insight.
And, you know, I don't knock anybody's method of growing,
whether it be organic or with salts.
I think we all have the ability to achieve
whatever you want if you put your mind to it
in this industry.
I think a lot of our audience might also see that,
you know, whatever style they really wanna adopt.
There's obviously a bunch of different styles
within the living soil umbrella,
but genetics are a huge part of that.
And when I first was getting into this,
we thought lighting and all these other things
were important, which they are,
but not at the same level of when you're trying to,
especially get that eye,
be able to create that eye for phenohunting
so that you don't miss some of those opportunities
that might come early, which are lucky,
but you might not have the eye to know and chop that down
or not keep the cut and all of that.
And I think with phenohunting too, as well,
is you have to have the ability to bring any given genetic
to its full potential.
I think there's a world of keepers out there
that have been lost to subpar growers, you know?
If you don't have the ability to bring a pheno
to its ultimate potential,
then you're just not gonna do that.
So then you might grow something out
and you don't think it's as good as it really is,
which is why you'll see a hundred growers
grow the same pheno and get a hundred different results.
You know, it's because it takes a certain level of skill
to bring the maximum potential out of any given phenotype.
And that's something even I'm working on with myself daily.
I'm constantly trying to improve my skills
so I can bring forth the best from these seeds
that I'm popping.
Yeah, life's passing you by either way, bro, right?
So you might as well try to find these little ways
to build up those attributes.
And I think that's why Marco and I put in,
you know, we do this each and every week, man.
And it's, we don't get paid.
We don't, it's all for the community.
I think that as a whole is like when we first came on
talking about there's something to the metaphysical in life
and it's pretty sweet to be tapped in.
Absolutely.
Yeah, thank you for the work you're doing
with the genetics, man.
Keep doing that.
Keep putting quality first and, you know,
everything will work itself out, bro.
Absolutely, thank you guys.
All right, we'll see you guys next week.
We got London on the show, London on the track.
A lot of you have been reaching out
because he moved his entire family to Italy.
That's a bold move, obviously.
And I think a lot of people respect it
and want to find out, you know,
what his thought process is and where it's going to go.
He was just in Spanabus,
got a bunch of fantastic interviews.
So a lot about, a lot to talk to him about next week.
Again, Mahadev, appreciate you, man.
Even showing that face, dude, the wizard, Mr. Oz.
Thank you, appreciate you guys.
Appreciate you.
Yeah, have a good one.

