All right. Welcome boys and girls. We are live from the wild west of American cannabis
Oklahoma and we're already talking barbecues and rubs and smokes and and all things. There's
the gear.
Yeah.
Yeah. Shout out to our IT team setting all this up. Behind the scenes it's it's quite
the effort to make us look this good.
They've got a lot of mics so they'll be pitching up and giving some commentary.
This is probably our best setup we've ever had Peter. So yes. Yes.
Objectively I can vouch for that.
And every everybody watching appreciate the effort that went into into this whole broadcast.
But this wouldn't be possible without companies like Green Bros and not to peddle their wares
but to do what FCP likes to do which is to drop some knowledge. I thought it'd be cool
to have Colin the founder and CEO tell his story his entrepreneurial journey which is
a cool one. So Brian why don't you first tell us tell us the madness that's going on outside
the exhibit hall and then pass it on to these guys.
Yeah. So for a lot of us in the industry especially the guys that are going around the country
you know we haven't really been able to do anything for two years. The last time that
a lot of us got together was Indio Expo 2020 in Denver and then everything got shut down.
So we've all been kind of finding our own way. Obviously you know we connected with
you Peter to do more digital stuff in 2020. But this is the thing that I feel like was
our bread and butter is going to a lot of these expos you know especially when I was
farming you know getting the genetics the high end genetics directly from the source.
There's a few breeders around here even today that I feel like if you're newer to farming
those are the ones that you want to kind of go to pick the breeders brain and then go
through and find those female hunts that you can you know build a brand with. That's something
else that I feel like everybody here today is you know you're trying to get our brands
back out there and that's something that we're glad to have you guys on the show is obviously
we want to help support and bring back education. So that's something that we're obviously going
to talk about with you guys today. How does kind of get into more about what you guys
do and what the future holds and you know maybe what you guys also are doing during
2020 when everything is on pause. Not getting out much for dinner. Going back to the barbecue.
Yeah. Interesting story. I think Colin could kind of start a little bit on the historical
because you know Peter hit it spot on as far as you know this company being industry born
and Colin tells the story best. But I have to say that's what attracted me as a veteran
of the industry and being a grower as well that always endorsing products I believe in
and products I know work you know because there's just so many so many people coming
in especially outsiders coming into our industry and we say it that way because we are from
the industry so we talk like that you know we were both both Colin and I come from the
I think the new PC term is a traditional industry. I don't think we get to be called legacy.
Yeah we're traditional. I mean we'd just call me an OG. It's not old enough to be OG yet.
It's very traditional. But yeah I think Colin can really tell it because I mean it is a true
American dream as far as starting a business and being successful but coming up from the
inside out as opposed to companies that are coming from the outside in. They don't quite
understand and respect to your point the craft and the culture. Like we know Gino, Fino and
Kimo and we appreciate the cultivation of the plant no matter land race or trendy triangle
strains. Like we're all about it. We live it. And again you can tell the story of where it all began.
Excellent. Yeah let's get into it. Sure. I mean first of all it is pretty cool to be back and
see the energy that's kind of cruising around out here and you know I didn't really miss it.
I didn't think having a year off we did well. I mean we were essential business so we did fine.
It's still able to produce and grew and did a lot of work but you know just to see the people
that I've known since the beginning of this thing you know the trade shows and bouncing to guys
and be like oh hey what's going on. Yeah I miss that kind of get kind of trapped in your business
you know and building the company and you don't get to get on the phone and talk to guys. So this
is your opportunity to get together. Hey how's it going? How's your business? How things working?
So I miss that. I did miss that. So it's really cool to be here. Super super excited to have it
back live. No masks. Yeah this is not California people. For you guys that don't know there is a
major line out there as well. So this is rivaling some of those major events that we were just
talking about before it came on air. That were you know back in Denver kind of thing. So this is
an exciting event. There's definitely an electric aspect to it. It's raw. It's back. It's kind of
got that early days feeling. Yeah it is. I like it a lot. But so I mean that my story is pretty
straightforward. In 2012 I invented a machine for a friend of mine. Our tumbler machine. And
well I thought man I'm gonna you know I'm gonna strike gold here. Here's this you know dry
sip machine for making press you know press keep or old school hash right. So but at that time the
whole industry had kind of switched to to extraction. And so I wasn't finding any love for
this great machine I invented. I did get a patent on it and everything. And I ended up traveling
northern California to try and get it sold. But in my travels I found that the biggest market
hole was dry was dry trimming. And it was the trend that was kind of hitting. And there was
another machine at the time I won't mention that was dominating. Just dominating. Because they were
the first real specifically designed dry trim machine. And I remember being in Garberville at
one of the stores up there and talking to the owner of the store. And I was like dude I'll be
back in three weeks with a machine that's better than that machine. And he was like dude yeah get
out of here. Good luck. Yeah. And I've been thinking about it for a while. It wasn't just
like I invented it right there. But went back down to San Diego and worked with a couple of guys
in San Diego and developed a machine and took it back up. And on my way there I was at
my dad's house. He was his girlfriend at the time was was a trimmer. She did for a living.
She trimmed buds for a living. So she would bring all the beasters home and sit in front of TV and
trim. Like we all do. Watching reruns of future Canvas project videos. Trimming at home. Yeah.
And so I'm like hey check this out. So I took a bunch of bucket and I poured it in
into the machine and it starts trimming. And she said oh my God oh my God. Oh my God Colin
it's amazing. And I was like fuck I nailed it. And so the next day I had this big important meeting
with the company up there in Garberville. And I get there and they're like they show up an
hour later. I'm getting ready to pull out and they finally show up. And they brought this guy.
This guy is trade name I think is Waxy Willie along with them. And they all kind of dabbed out.
I'm trying to show off this machine and I can't get anybody's attention. And I was just like oh
dude this is this is so horrible. And I brought I had actually brought cannabis from from San Diego
because they didn't have anything to demo it. So I traveled the wrong way up the highway with
cannabis. It goes the other way. It travels downhill. It's not uphill. So I never even
thought about going backwards right. Like you know here. Anyway I got to show I showed the
machine I finally got it. And the owner of that company looked at it and he said man bro I sell
all these machines. I've sold every machine. He goes I've never been impressed. He said that
machine impresses me. And that's when I really knew that we were on to something completely
different and revolutionary. And then after that it was like how do you get everybody else to
believe. You know because I'm I drain my account. I'd taken all my 401k gone. I took a severance
from my company gone. You know put all this into this energy into this thing and trying to get
somebody to come along board and believe. And at the time I I started doing kind of a tour with
used to be a group that's still there still around called our few. They're kind of an
angel group familiar with them. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I work with them and Boston was the first show
I went to. Thought I had made a connection there. Got nothing. They had a cancellation in Colorado
because I spent it cost a lot of money to get involved in it to get money cost money. I spent
all this money while they came up short. They needed somebody to present because they were
short a company and they called me and said listen if you guys want to come back out and do it again
like I don't have any money bro. And they're like well we'll let you do it for free. And I got out
and I found a guy a guy that invested in the company early and that was in 2000 and I was in
13. So in 2012 we did like 60000 dollars and 2013 we did like three hundred and forty thousand
dollars. And then in 2014 we did three point six million. And so it was just yeah it was just
like that. And we basically turned the whole trimming industry on its head and really showed
people that you know you can actually get a real quality product from a piece of equipment. And
we've been just banging it out ever since. You know that's kind of the beginning of it. I spent
many nights sleeping on the 101 in my in my pop top tent because you know that's a hell of a drive
from San Diego to Garberville. Hours. So yeah exactly. So you know nine hours or whatever up
there. And just you know you get tired you pull over and sleep on the side of the road. I was
back up there not too long ago at a visiting a company that we've known for a long time. Cookies
headquarters up there. And we were up there hanging out with them and checking out. So so beautiful
they're writing it right off the 101 in right up past or I think they're just past Garberville or
on the way to Garberville. Yeah. Stunning location. And just remembering how beautiful that is and
what a fucking amazing journey it was. And thinking about back to those days. I'm really glad I'm not
sleeping in my truck. But I do miss that those days from back then. It was really cool. Really
cool. Nostalgic to see all that stuff. But so our viewers they you know they really enjoy the
educational part. Can we kind of talk about you know especially for the newer farmers. They might
not necessarily understand the difference between wet trimming and dry trim. Sure. We kind of break
that down and why why it's important obviously in our opinion to dry trim and that kind of stuff. And
what you really lose when you're wet trimming. So I always look at like if you if you were to
take a rose and you know you take a fresh cut it's beautiful flower and then you trim some of the some
of the leaves right there. It's going to brown and it's going to die back right. Because it's still
alive. I mean the plant just because you picked it doesn't mean that the plant's dead. It's going to
go into defensive healing mode. It's going to go and you know the plants have strategies to defend
themselves from all kinds of attacks. Trimming is a full on brutal assault. You know. So if you're
if you look at cannabis and cannabis is the flower of the plant it does the same thing.
And so I've always looked at it like like that's the most vulnerable time for the plant. You cut
it down and you have this exceptionally vulnerable time. So you're supposed to you know if you hang it
and dry it and you do it right then the plant kind of naturally gets into that place where it's
supposed to be. It's dead as soon as you cut it but it's not it's still living because it's a plant.
They take time you know. You can put it in water to live a while. Yeah you know. So so that's what we
always looked at it that way. There's probably more science behind it than that. But once you
once you get it dry like the worst thing that can happen to it once it's dry is you you know you
fuck up the trim. That's the worst thing that can happen to it. But as it's wet you can transfer
mold you can transfer other pathogens you can you can over trim it you can damage it and plus all
the you know the negativity of the of the plant going into that defensive mode. And I think you
can see it in the quality of the product at the end of the day. And I know you can see it in the
terpenes and in the in the in the THC. If you're if you're if you're doing it right you can see it
increase even over hand trimming when you when you use a machine. Absolutely. And it's it's an
interesting topic because we were on a call. It was a company did like a wet versus dry. It's
interesting because they had a few OGs on there a few guys who came up either from the hill or
South Oregon or wherever. And all of them first disclosed you know well personally I'm a dry
trimmer but if I were to do wet like it's kind of interesting how a lot of guys and I know we're
from the West Coast so we obviously have a little more traditional kind of OG mentality towards the
way we grow. But you know we come out here and we toured a few facilities and they're they're
literally just pulling them off the stock and de-stem them right away. And that's kind of a
shocker to me. I'm like don't you want to wick out as much nutrients as possible and just hang
them versus doing this whole tray dry. Like no it's just the way we go. Everyone has their own
way. And it's like that's true. I'm like at least you are dry trimming though because I agree. I
mean the wet trimming I'm always scared because those trichomes. Yeah I mean it's all that that
also known as finger hash to the people who do wet trimming.
And I was going to say and your trimmer is really enjoying everything.
Yeah those rubber gloves are worth some coin.
Yeah yeah yeah.
Your customer's not enjoying it.
Yeah your customer gets jammed up and you got all your trimmers have balls of booger hash.
It's like they're saving and putting it on the back of their neck or under their ear.
But it's and that's the thing we joke around but it's true and that's what I love about
Peter's audience is a lot of these guys get that you know the true entourage is played out a term
as that is but that true entourage includes the cannabinoids and the terpenes. So if you're
already going to battle against the terpenes by just pulling them down just ripping them up like
he's saying then what do you have left to go off of. And you know we talk about this some of the
some of my friends up on the hill they're smoking 15 percent forbidden fruit with the most diverse
terpene profile way more heady than this 30 percent plus stuff there when it's right. It
doesn't have to be loud make your ears ring all day to be that true experiential. So that's what
we feel and again we find more people do favor dry because they want to do the traditional hang
dry cure trim you know kind of do it in this right process. And we've had great success with
it. I mean I'm still impressed. We we do demos but my marketing guy my visual guy was just here a
minute ago and man we got some footage out in Colorado actually we're at the clinic and it was
insane like they're pulling out still foxtails and everything and we remind people that we're like
mother nature is not symmetrical it's asymmetric there's no 90 degree angles and there's no
symmetrical it's not normal for a bud to look like a pine cone or a Christmas tree or a golf ball
like everyone's like oh that's so tight it's all perfectly manicured I'm like yeah where the
terpenes yeah better buy those pre-rolls man because that's probably where they are you know
it's all in the trim yeah so yeah a little interesting so so let's talk about what kind of
defies your product and where it what defines your product and uh you know you're saying that
you had something that was a little unique than the competitor can you kind of talk about that
yeah I mean basically if you look at every other piece of equipment on the market whether it's wet
or dry it's all uh dryer style tumble crumble and it just I mean it just literally is a tumbling
machine and early in early on they used to actually show you videos of it running and you'd see a wave
they go oh you got to find the wave you know and that's a wave of cannabis really just violently
tumbling through the system and that was uh you know that's it's violent man that's what it comes
down to and you don't need that to actually you know produce a high quality trim what what I did
is um I kind of threw the whole thing upside down and we came over the flat surface and then it's a
little bit angled so you get a gentle roll you have to move the product I mean that's what you
have to do you have to get the product over the blade system that's how the trimmers work but this
whole idea that you have to create this wave or this whole you know movement like it looks like
water inside the machine that's just way too much action on uh you know on top of that product because
it's so gentle I mean you know it is so gentle so delicate um that you really don't have the
opportunity to treat it that that aggressively um I talk about this all the time like there's no
protective coating on it like the only protection it has is the leaves and you're trying to get rid
of those you know and so you're looking at this product that's super delicate super valuable and
you're gonna go beat the shit out of it because it's expedient oh I can do it fast I mean we we
do it fast and we do it well and we don't have to do that so but everything that I do is always
designed that way first when we looked at sorting when we looked at uh when I even my keef machine
it's all designed to do things specifically in a gentle way that's why you can run my machines
they're quiet you can sit in front of my whole set of machines and have a normal
face-to-face conversation while they're running full speed you don't have vacuums and other crazy
noises going on you have just this really simple simple setup but um that was kind of the whole
idea is when I look and when I look at new stuff or we look at holes in the industry it's like well
how do you do this for this plant and all that's why all the bucking we make one and I you know
all the buckers are dumb because they all do the same thing that that's not been solved yet there's
a gentle process for doing that right it hasn't been solved yet it's violent and it's detrimental
and when you're talking about a product that that you know a little bud is worth five bucks
you're not talking about peanuts you can't you don't want them on the floor you don't want them
being beat to crap so that's been our whole focus the company whole focus is always about product
first quality of product first and and so that makes us do things differently than what other
people do so for the commercial farmers this is it seems like kind of a nice little hybrid between
a machine and then of course having your your labor force trimming everything right hand yeah
what what do you feel like is the future for trimming well we see everything kind of because
of the quality we're seeing coming out of these machines and when when things are when you nail
it's like everything every machine has sweet spots every machine has to be dialed in right
that's just normal working your car's the same way everything has that kind of sweet spot to it
when you get that machine dialed in if the product is is dialed in you got your product kind of
consistent you can run the machine we can run the machine we can run the product through all of our
machines and have perfect product at the end without any human intervention and that's what
the goal is right the goal is to go from plant to package whatever that is whether you're pre-rolling
or or micro batching or or you're grinding or you're going to extraction all that should happen
without anybody's fingers i mean there's no reason that's today's day and age with all this technology
and all this energy that's put around that we have to have human intervention because every time you
touch or handle you that's why they wear those gloves you get trichomes on your fingers it's just
every time you do that it's an opportunity for decoration a bonus perk usually for the labor
it is fingers yep yep that is true so what is the difference like uh speed wise i mean if you know
you bring that into a commercial facility that's used to hand trimming you know how many pounds per
hour do you guys have those kind of numbers yeah sure um you know and of course there's always
variances within that but we we're about up to i think like 16 pounds an hour on the model m
and again that's there's a lot of dependencies in there but you can easily you know you can be
consistently in the 12 range with it and you can go even higher um then the little our little
trimmer does uh does about uh four or so in an hour so if you look at humans capabilities a
really good solid trimmer will give you a couple pounds a pound to two pounds in a day and um so
that's that's your kind of labor savings equation we have companies that do it all kinds of the way
some companies will do like and they'll just bump it in the machine for a minute and 80 percent it
and then they'll just touch it you know pull pro feed out yeah fine tune it up a little bit
and then what we find out what we find a lot is that guys will start that way and then pretty
soon they're like it's good enough man it's coming out the trimmer it's good enough and we've you
know we had coas from the beginning that showed that our um our trimmer actually produces or
leaves more thc so we would have higher thc counts uh by a whole point even in some cases than people
who are hand trimming correctly hand trimming the thing about the machine and all these machines
if they're tuned in and dialed in and everything is consistent you get consistency what the problem
that with people is that you have a fall off in in in uh in functionality over time and it's it's
just normal you get tired you get distracted you get confused you didn't have your coffee you had
your coffee you know maybe you had a break and you got tired you know there's so many you had a big
lunch you know what i mean and that's so you get that you get that natural fall off or change in
in in productivity and consistency with people um and this is not you know we're not that kind of a
culture where we're more along the lines of of production and consistency you know that's why
mcdonald's is so freaking successful you know you go it doesn't matter where you go in the country
their burgers taste the same and people kind of want that especially from brands you know those
brands are so important you want a brand you want that that that that brand to be the same if you
bought it in maine as if you buy it in california and it should look the same smell the same and
taste the same and give you the same results and that's how you that's you do that through equipment
and that's a process calling is a really good analogy it's funny he mentions mcdonald's we talk
about all the time and anyone that's gone through even those that don't like fast food every once
in a while you're in a pinch and a lot of people didn't notice that all of a sudden they went from
one to two lanes in the drive-thru people are just like oh they're just more efficient one thing
that colin pointed out was they brought efficiency by way of automation so the one thing that allowed
them to be able to increase their throughput was by having an automated machine for making drinks
literally the only thing that doesn't go through that machine is their tea and they still get the
ice and then go over to the taps for the tea everything else soda water and all that is on
full automation now another thing he points out because our angle as far as showing the features
advantageous benefits coming from the marketing guy is we aren't about job elimination there's
another company that says this is how many labor hours this how many people you said we're not about
saving people we're stoked to the fact that as of 2020 this this actual industry itself saw 317,000
employees and the fact that keeps growing year over year our equipment is just to bring that
efficiency and throughput so we're finding that there's more qualified jobs that are becoming
established because those people are being moved off of that manual labor of hand trimming to doing
qa doing quality control through the process and making sure from soup to nuts that everything is
properly being executed on for the sops for that establishment so it is very similar to that
mcdonald's model because that's the first thing colin said to me is like do you see any less
employees behind that register i'm like no dude i feel like there's more and he's like yeah because
they're doing more shit because they don't have to fill drinks all day i mean that was literally
half of the time in the drive-through was the drinks everything else was was sorted on mcdonald's
line so it's stuff like that where we're trying to educate again the end user to help them
understand the value it brings so that they have more opportunity even for their employees not just
for consistency and continuity and quality of that product i mean throughput throughput throughput
throughput becomes that big that big game right that that's where your margins start to come in
and you start to see that gain in value it it doesn't come you know people spend a lot on
automation i did i spent a lot in my company we have a couple million dollars worth of equipment
and you know that equipment allows us to push product through faster that's what that is doing
so you pay for that but that's what you're getting here i'm getting consistent higher throughput and
that's that's the name of the game when you have to supply a large industry or a large consumer
market which which you know brands are doing like you know you look at a national brand which is
crazy to think like when from 2012 now we have national cannabis brands that's amazing yeah mso
is all over yeah yeah and those guys those guys have to get on board with some consistency because
again you expect that when you go wherever you go you expect that brand to have that same
like our friends at cookies yeah that's exactly like friends like cookies is a great example where
they're trying to have that consistency from state to state to state they want to replicate that
because that's what their consumer demands yeah absolutely i have a quick question is that the
voice of god that that is the voice of god so basically i i personally love industrial design
and kind of technical innovation and and that's what you are so i want you to imagine you're
talking like you're dorking out with another industrial designer and walk us through like
when you were creating your first machine like you're dropping you know buds in there and like
watching and tweaking and can you talk about kind of like the process in the beginning but then part
two is the machine you first created versus the machine now i assume the machine of 2021
is better than the original machine so what were kind of the technical innovations that allowed you
to get better and better at what you do you should tell about the first time you were surprised with
remember the blade design yeah you didn't think it's working it looks underneath and there's this
just gentle snow coming down like uh when i built when i built the machine we we built it flat so i
i had i had spent all my money which i alluded to earlier and i had like 150 dollars to have
somebody plasma cut my blades and if you know anything about plasma it's really hard on stainless
steel man so my my blades look like cones uh so i had a hammer on flat um but i had this box and it
was made out of mcdonald's colored plastic so it was it was yellow red yellow it's called sandwich
board it's very common uh high density polyethylene product um it's what i could what i could get i
got it we made a square box and put it in there uh and i went it was hilarious like so i went i went
to my friend's house and he's like i got some stuff to trim so like i'm all geeked out i know
this is gonna work i swear i know it's gonna work and it's sitting flat on the ground and and i put
a bunch of cannabis in there and it goes around and around like on a record player and i'm just
like devastated like oh no man something's missing i don't understand i was imagining it just tumbling
nicely and all this stuff um but what happened was it just sat there obviously and uh so i was i
looked underneath and like lance said there's this just really nice gentle fall of of trim like
micro trim like really it wasn't chopping or crunching up stuff it was just really finely
cut trim so i knew we're on point so we started tilting it and my friend's like oh just put it
on an angle mate he's an english guy and uh so we get it on an angle and it starts working i'm like
oh that's it what angle is it so he busts out his cell phone with a little anglometer on it and and
we get the angle on it right to create that flow and then from there um it was about you know kind
of looking at the the user-friendly stuff about it we rounded out the inside corners on it and then
we looked at i put a a lid safety switch so that you know when when you operate the machine the lid
has to be down for it to run um you know to in case anybody stuck their fingers in it by the way
i've put my hands in those machines a thousand times he says he'll buy me a sandwich if i ever
cut myself on a blade you have to you have to work at it man you'd have to really work at it but
um so yeah i mean that was it so then like the next evolution was getting one that was bigger
and kind of going from small to big um while everything seems like oh you just make everything
bigger it doesn't exactly work that way and so there's a lot of challenges with materials and
stuff like that we had to upgrade gauge up on materials and uh and that was our 420 machine
which was exceptionally popular i mean that machine um i think we sold 1500 units one uh
our third year uh of those machines it was just insane but we were always looking for the next
how do you do this better and we we started with food grade product so my htpe is uh is colored but
non-treated so it's food safe it's nsf i don't put the nsf stickers on it uh or leave it on it
but the but the product itself is nsf the stainless steel is food safe uh aluminum uh everything that
in the machine is completely food safe every part of the machine is made from food safe materials
and we did that early because we knew that you know some point in time our customers are going
to be facing you know regulatory hurdles well we came out with the model m because we had learned
all the lessons about cleanability and the difficulties that our customers were facing
with kind of the correct uh nooks and crannies and crevices and so the model m um is uh kind of
the the the penultimate version of this kind of trimming because you you can literally break it
down in 30 seconds and have all the parts out of it and you can put new parts in it and go to the
next train while you clean this setup so that was that was exceptionally important and to get away
from that uh the obvious uh hiding places for because you know trim gets in everything uh if
there's a hole or crack or crevice it's going to get in there so that was really kind of the move
for uh us in this next evolution of trimmers which is the like i said the model m and now we're now
we're doing automation so you're going to see that tied with our rise conveyor so you're going to see
automatic batching that's coming up it's on the horizon you're seeing our rise conveyor work with
our sorting system with automated so you're seeing us go from you know improving product design to
also improving automation and increasing that value point um and then you know then data
collection becomes a manageable thing and and throughput becomes very clear and very evident
for you to understand um and you're not just throwing throwing problems or solutions of
problems you're actually being able to calculate how to solve these problems and get the right
solution but for us the evolution of it has been that kind of stage by stage so we moved we moved
two years ago when i introduced the model m we we were really excited about the product
and we introduced it in 304 stainless steel and then we switched we quickly just switched and i
went back to my supplier and said listen we want to do everything 316 so everything on that on that
product is 316 and we spend a little bit more for that but i buy in bulk so ultimately it works out
but 316 stainless surgical grade super high quality super high resistance to to acidity
and it's basically the best food great stuff you can buy um and it's all us source so all of our
equipment comes all of our product raw goods excuse me comes from the united states and uh
that's something we're very proud of it's a homies walking around yeah all right got the bovina crew
over here yeah so so that that was kind of the evolution like step by step on how to and also
on the model m we we we had this sweeper bar situation on the older machine which was a which
was a functional design but it was lacking some spacing so behind the bar there were some missing
we weren't getting quite the the movement of material that i wanted to see so with the model
m we created a couple a couple of fins that actually guide the material off of the blade
so what you see when you see it run it kind of moves the material uh off the outside of the blade
into the inside and then back out to the outside so you see this really nice gentle rolling movement
of material across that blade surface so we're getting significantly higher throughput on a
machine that's uh you know four inches i think actually smaller in diameter than uh than the
than the 420 trimmer so those are kind of things that the trimmer went through and you know it's
become this race to make it easier to manage and take care of for our for our customers you can
literally buy a blade set and a barrel and change over in in three minutes and have that machine
yeah yeah hot swap for sure so all right well we have our next guest here i wanted to kind of
where can we find out more about you guys and uh that kind of thing uh we're at green bros g-r-e-e-n-b-r-o-z.com
we're on all the socials um you can find us at our instagram's really really pretty cool it's got
tons of videos and demos from our customers yeah see a lot of information not just from us but from
our you know the customers that we love and support um instagram facebook you can find it
all linkedin we're on there we actually we're doing a show promo here an acknowledgement of 788
obviously the medical passage here in oklahoma so we have a 7.88 off of our 215 which is our
our successor to the 420 um so very efficient machine we got that going on here a bunch of swag
and such too so if you guys happen to be in the okc or plan on coming by today or tomorrow we're
in booth 9-1-1 yeah fire swag oh dude yeah we'll hook you up definitely sick the hats are cool
yeah that was a great design that pickup right there i uh i i love kind of scrappy entrepreneurial
stories i love industrial design so uh i liked uh hearing the story i appreciate it
well we love supporting you guys man i mean you know peter as friends always talk about i mean
this company is we love we're industry born you know we're growers at heart and care about the
industry and the success of of where this community is going and again love to support what you guys
are doing and love how you're supporting us so colin you're you're not a former uh bank of america
commercial banker entering the the the weed industry he didn't know the vacuum cleaner
okay cool no actually uh it's interesting i mean i i grew up i was always knew i was going to have
my own business but i did work for a couple of big boys i worked for hewlett packard and saic i
was a i was a navy contractor um so i i there's a lot of lessons i pulled out of that but mechanically
i was never trained mechanically as an engineer i've just been really strong mechanically my
whole life and um so you know i took the opportunity to teach myself solid works and
and get to work so this has been from the beginning it's been all about how to deal
with cannabis for us it's it's cannabis first and so we're getting into hemp because it's you
know basically the same thing kind of yeah makes sense especially i mean yeah yeah quality
yeah top shelf smoke absolutely so so we're going down that road but i mean when all of our all of
our competitors ran after hemp we cannabis is our bread and butter guys this is what we do we know
this better than anybody because all we do um you talk to my engineers you go through one of our
engineering cycles you talk to the group and the first thing is are we being gentle enough how do
we handle it better what can we do to make sure that we're not damaging or inflicting any problems
into the product and that's primary question number one after that it's just then you can go
down the road of design and function but you have you have to you have to look at cannabis special
put the flower first flower first it's definitely that's definitely what our show is about and
educate first uh something that we're big on i appreciate you guys coming through thank you
we're going to be seeing a lot more of each other yeah that's awesome and lance when you get back to
la i look forward to the to the hookup of your uh sir lance a lot dry rub i will bring you some of
the slow seasoning and i i think you might need a machine i know i'm heading out to denver next month
so uh yeah and i think we might need to throw a machine in the backdrop there too peter i know you
yeah i have some space over here perfect he's nascar'd up yeah it's ricky bobby for sure man
ricky bobby all right thanks guys thanks for it thanks for kicking it off that's great man thank
you definitely all right our next guest is joel uh mr key grow solutions let's see what's going on
in the chat and to everybody in the chat i love mom and pop small businesses too i am one myself
i'm in the garage by myself a one-man marching band as is mr toad as is cascadian grown as are
a lot of people uh but i do like to give love to people who are entrepreneurial and uh you know
yeah those are great guys you know we see them a lot all over the country and stuff so they're
supporting nice people who are entrepreneurial and uh and flexing their brain muscles to
to i don't know create cool stuff so anyway who do we got now well speaking of flexing your brain
muscle uh this is a personal friend of mine this is somebody that i feel like is definitely should
be recognized as an og uh joel's gone around the country and built up a company from scratch
uh i was going to a bunch of different expos literally almost everyone around the country
and what was great about it is i would see this guy almost at every single one of those even the
little small ones in arizona or something that i didn't think anybody'd go to uh this guy was at
and the reason for that is he really understands plants um he's on uh in my opinion another level
of being able to explain stuff um and that's what i hope our viewers are going to be able to get
today is maybe even a little bit more of a q a with you joel uh because this man is a wealth
of knowledge and i'd love for you to kind of talk about your products but then also you know
let's open up that brain a little bit man and share with everybody on you know why certain
things are different with what you're doing yeah for sure um and and thank you those are very
flattering statements and yeah we've definitely we've definitely had some good times around the
country as well like um those are stories for another time but sure uh but yeah i mean our
approach i feel like what we do is a a little bit different um than what a lot of people are out
there doing um you know we we don't really uh kind of side with um you know a singular approach we
kind of look at uh everything that maybe could be beneficial from like uh the side in terms of
organics uh as well as uh with chemistry and synthetics and we're a little bit into uh what
we call organic chemistry so we do a lot of molecule isolation uh through chemical interactions
that don't involve inorganic compounds um so you know uh you know i think in uh more terms of like
fast release and slow release nutrients i think that at the end of the day what we all really want
uh are products that are clean um that don't have a lot of toxicity in them
that are regenerative or at least are not harmful um to the environment uh you know
and that's the reality too bro about that is that there's a lot of hidden secrets before
you know on on both sides um there's definitely a bad reputation towards synthetic uh salt
ingredients and there's a really good reason for that a lot of them are are not produced uh with
the cleanest techniques um you know the uh the what we call toxic heavy metals and nutrients
those uh you know those are from the earth you know they're in organic materials that we use
but they're in very minute amounts so it really doesn't affect your crop negatively
but when you uh you know think about doing like a cannabis extraction you know if you take a flower
and it's 15 percent uh you know and you you extract it and turn it into 70 percent i mean
the impurities are extracted along with the nutrients in that same way so um you know that's
kind of something that we've been working around um so we we have some materials that we use that
are exclusive to us as well uh my favorite out of them is called a potassium acetate
so the uh the acetic acid component of it that delivers the uh uh the potassium uh somewhat
scary sounding in name probably but yeah it is like in in a very simple term it's sort of like a
concentrated vinegar if you will um i wouldn't drink acetic acid but i mean i've used vinegar
on food and stuff so um you know that's that's basically what the compound is just a very very
concentrated version of it and inside the plant it's actually recognized as a molecule that the
plant is trying to produce and is producing through what's called glycolysis and that's
done through photosynthesis so the collection of light basically and the production of acetyl
coenzyme a that which then initiates the krebs cycle and that is all of your like carbohydrate
and energy production and reserves so it helps build up large amounts of carbohydrates in the
plant which has major effects on like transition between stages more than just from veg to flour
but you know even things from like junior vegetative to teen vegetative um a lot of people
don't even think about that man i mean when they veg it's almost like they put it out for a week or
two and now they're automatically flowering and a lot of times it's flowering deficient plants now
i'm not going to say like what is a right or wrong approach because there's a million different ways
to to go about it but to me personally i feel like the best results that i will get is when i am
treating the plant for what it is about to do uh more so than what it is doing at that time
so i want to build up large amounts of carbohydrate reserves in it um i want to build up large amounts
of phosphorus in the plant before it goes into transition because it's it does something um it
has what's called a sink source relationship so the plant will basically look at what it has in
its reserves and it will make a decision uh how much it is going to allocate towards what processes
and if it has a major transitional process happening it's going to do a better and faster
job if it has reserves built up into it um so that's you know a huge benefit with the that
potassium acetate uh but it's that molecule is also in cannabis uh initiates all of the
cannabinoid synthesis pathways um there's two main pathways although there's sort of like three
paths to the two pathways uh and there are two pathways for terpene synthesis within the plant
and it initiates one of those pathways as well um and then to continue rambling on no no this is
great yeah yeah we uh we also we've we have developed something that we call uh a polyamine
technology um which is has huge ramifications i feel we put it into all of our products
and it's basically um if you're familiar with what a chelate is which is sort of like
a coating that goes around the outside of usually micronutrients um to prevent them from coming
into contact with each other and having adverse chemical interactions and locking each other out
um our liquid itself uh carries amino acids in it and these amino acids actually actively
chelate other molecules positively charged molecules that it comes into contact with
when you mix it into a liquid solution uh so it creates chelates on other products uh it
helps protect uh you know calcium from phosphorus iron from phosphorus um and then uh things like
that for the newer viewers it also is like a plant available when it's in that form ready to go yeah
yeah it's already you know it's isolated as a single molecule it kind of i think it has the
biggest uh effect on phosphorus phosphorus is kind of the hardest nutrient to work with uh and it's
definitely the most important um and the plant can only absorb phosphorus if it's in a single
molecule form but it's very difficult for it to stay in that single molecule form so a lot of the
phosphorus that gets used like if you look at like the use of say salt nutrients for example like
there's a very large percentage of those nutrients that you are sort of over feeding on purpose to
account for the amount that is going to lock out that you're flushing out like with the next feeding
pretty much or running off with the current feeding um so the application rates are a lot
more than what's really going into the plant and you don't have quite as much control uh over what's
going into the plant um you know as it's made out to be um so this you know what we're doing it gives
a lot more uh like what you're feeding is really what the plant is getting um so like great for uh
indoor like commercial facilities and stuff like that especially uh but all the materials are good
like for the soil they're regenerative for the soil they don't leach uh or lock out uh like a lot
of potassium sulfate and phosphoric acids have been a huge huge problem in agriculture um so i
mean it's you know it's another uh nice safe clean easy to use i feel ethical option um not the only
good option out there of course but uh and you're big on adding amino acids is that correct yeah we
do a lot of amino acids for sure um we we use a uh soy hydrolysate um that is 17 l-amino acids
there's there's technically 18 of them but one of them's in very very low amounts so probably not
really and i feel like that's you know for a lot of us you know we're doing living living soil so
we're kind of mother nature is making all of that but totally that's something that you can kind of
add um that i feel like really improves the overall health like you're saying being proactive
i think adding those aminos to your calcium regimen is how in my opinion you're going to
be able to get those reservoirs amino acids would be a very difficult thing to overuse correct you
know you can't really have too many sources of that the plant uses them internally within the
cells to produce proteins otherwise the plant is strictly like reliant on recycling old proteins
uh for the most part which is very energy intensive so anything that you're adding into the soil
whether it be organic amendments or extracted amino acids like that soy protein uh hydrolysate
we're working on a 19 l-amino acid that i've been experimenting with as well
but it is actually inorganic but that does seem to be effective that's something i also wanted to
share with the viewers so you've been hands-on in the r&d of your products uh since day one yeah i
mean i try to i try to stay involved for sure but you know i'm not the actual chemist that
has to deal with the final uh mixed ideas so sometimes you know but my point is i've been
shut down on a few uh combinations i wanted to do i guess not gonna work in a bottle but
i've noticed that you know you're kind of going out of your way to provide quality nutrients where
some of the other even brands here today uh there's a lot of heavy metals in their stuff there's uh
pgrs and that kind of stuff that we were even talking about it you know at dinner and drinks
yeah totally that's true and i you know some of these are complicated subjects for me too because
i'm not even inherently anti pgr per se i mean another thing that kind of has a very bad rap
for a good reason there's some really terrible ones out there um but you know there's natural pgrs
too like kelp is a pgr like that will give you a shorter natural occurring pgrs all about it
totally right yeah so like pgrs you know and and i know of some that some brands are using
uh that are extracted like from flowers and stuff and seem like they'd probably be safe and i might
even experiment with some of those um but what really kind of irks me um personally is that
they're not disclosed on the labels they're sort of like a a brand secret um and as anyone that's
ever had to register like fertilizer product labels i totally understand the urge to just
remove things from the label yeah because it's hard to get it's hard to get things passed in
some states but that's a good thing though because like we should be accountable you know for for
what our ingredients are um but but i digress yeah um you know so definitely we're into the
amino acid approach um we uh you know we use a limited spectrum of beneficial bacteria
and a couple of our products too not the most robust um but you know it's but if somebody's
maybe they're learning living soil from us week by week they're not there yet and they wanted to
use a clean product that's why i wanted to have you on the show and i know that you're involved
yeah totally and i mean you know living soil systems like are fantastic i mean that's definitely
a high road to take there's some areas where there's a lot more realistic than others i i live
in las vegas i don't really have uh the local resources to um you know for me to even bring in
like organic ingredients out there to be honest would be like probably more damaging to the
environment from like the transportation yeah even uh but but um you know even living soil
grows like need to supplement once in a while with something so we've got you know our products are
are good to you know foliar spray with and they they benefit the biology and stuff so we know like
some uh certainly some successful perhaps well-known um living soil grows out there that
that um you know do use us as foliar supplements and stuff as well so i wanted to throw out there
too guys uh for you guys that wanted to kind of pick his brain you know we're gonna obviously do
these uh interviews a little bit quicker obviously than on thursday uh but i would love for you guys
to ask him your questions uh plant questions that kind of thing uh this guy is an og and like i said
he really understands the plant um and can define things for you so if you if there are questions
out there again i see mr to talking about uh pgrs and stuff that's definitely something i feel like
joel and tom we could have you come back on the show really dive deeper into that dive deeper into
plant growth promoting rhizobacteria as well and why yeah for sure you know a totally different
subject yeah i mean for me personally i really like the the combination i mean obviously like
you know i grow in a medium that has nutrients in it i add bacteria um to it you know organic
supplements that aren't made by us as well you know um on occasion but you know yeah um there's
so many different ways to go about it that are all good and especially in your learning you know i
yeah i was using synthetics for a long time you know and flowering out little tiny plants and i
was just a lot to learn back in the day and that's why you know everybody that's involved with the
future cannabis project we're so big on education because we want to minimize that amount of time
that you guys uh can that learning curve and that's something that i feel like as we continue to
grow i hope the community gives back and i appreciate you coming on the show i'd really love people to
learn more about um you know how products can be used uh in different circumstances like for more
than one use you know what i mean like a lot of the synthetic lines um you know you'll get redundant
products uh but they say you know bloom a or grow a um and they're exactly the same ingredients so
like you know there's a lot of ways to to incorporate um different techniques but you know
it depends on your systems and your location it's you know you gotta you gotta choose your goals
yeah everything every little uh place is different joel perkins that's right uh so you guys have any
other questions if not uh we i believe we're gonna go grab uh carter creek and uh 918 og
uh peter do you have any questions or anything buddy uh i do not have been uh multitasking in
the background all right fair enough so joel uh how can they find out more about you bud oh yeah
good point um yeah you can find us uh on the web uh on the worldwide web at a key grow solutions
dot com uh we're on instagram as key grow solutions uh or you could find my personal instagram at
joel underscore key grow as well so thank you guys i really appreciate uh you having me on
always a good time absolutely we'll have you back i'll see you after the show yeah we'll go a deeper
deeper dive at some point so i'm gonna go grab our next guest uh daguerre if you can come in
and fill out that'd be great for all right thanks brother all right be right back our ed mcmahon
what up yeah let's move that let's have him go from off off screen to on screen yeah we thought
we'd uh the guy the guy was like wait let me get to yeah no i was i was like dude i think we got
to move that arm in a little bit he's kind of off screen a little bit so i think i think we've
figured it out here now uh yeah i i've not started on the beer yet uh yes here is the one
and only mr standing coma it's almost got to do it so what uh what are you are you dabbing on
murphy's stuff today what's what's on today's uh menu let's uh
what's the brand is that murphy's yeah so i did a jeffrey jar you all know what a jeffrey jar is
yeah he can he can he can our hand model our vanna white so i took pull it back a tiny bit
and put yeah look at that oh my god that is yeah so i took four grams of random and then i
stirred it all together uh sorry i'm i'm looking in the chat yeah the 10 a.m maybe
if it's the 10 a.m beer i may do the uh the bloody mary that's my uh
uh yeah that's probably a bad direction to head down
i have to grab jemma from school at 3 30 in the afternoon
ah cascading was making fun of you he's throwing shade he called that the carmex
what's the carmex like the lip balm the petroleum-based uh lip stuff it looks like
man what do you smoke on that poo poo sauce
uh yeah what was yesterday oh yeah now we had our uh our mic check our impromptu
conversation yesterday but uh yeah i'm trying to pull uh let me see where brand have you guys
talked to brandon um yeah we hope we went out last night oh with him cool okay
did you just do you just lean down to sneak the dab in i did i did
guess you gotta work up to it you know poopoo platter i see poopoo's the poopoo the poopop
sauce yeah that reminds me of uh a shit sandwich i think uh the chinese restaurant we used to go to
growing up was natick mass and uh i used to always order a poopoo platter that was my my go-to
which i have not had in many many years how's it sound does everything sound good on y'all
y'all's end it sounds like we're using some uh some amazingly high-end microphones
yeah should be for a thousand bucks okay rob oros what let me look and see what question you asked
and i my profuse apologies for oh anything with harpen protein all right we'll uh
we can do a deep dive on harpen uh we'll get someone uh yeah soil king is there
um yeah we are gonna do the boxing match brad piper yeah
peter's gonna be the are you ready guy
guy who who who's the announcer or like the let's get let's get ready to rumble
god it's the brothers why don't i know this um i don't know i forgot their names right now
someone in the chat knows the uh the announcer no not mills lane it wasn't mills lane yeah
wasn't he the the ref yeah i thought so he's the little ball guy right mills lane hold on
yeah because he was on uh celebrity death match remember that yeah he was the ref who's the uh
famous boxing yeah the buffer brothers yeah buffer there we go michael buffer there we go michael
that's who um michael and they got a crazy story those boys you ever heard their story
the buffer brothers well didn't they like trademark and they didn't even know they were
brothers his dad went to world war one came back had a child which was the first son left got
divorced had the second son and they didn't know about each other until like one day they were in
the car and then he was like hey i think that's your brother i had a another child and i never
told you about it and then they figured out they were brothers that's a traumatic uh childhood
moment but they had the same job yeah that's insane so so independently they both went into
the same very specific niche field right of emceeing boxing matches all right we're in for
a treat we have uh carter creek cannabis uh he's representing jinx proof uh jinx was gonna be on
the show but unfortunately he just had brain surgery uh and he uh politely declined but uh
carter creek's coming over as well as 918 og um that collabed together so we'll be able to see
some of their concentrates and talk flower are we gonna talk nine pound hammer hell yeah we're
gonna talk nine pound hammer we could probably even bring uh are you guys gonna smoke it
we're bringing 88 back
all right well um i thought carter creek was right here maybe he had to run to the bathroom
something like that no that's 918 og hey we go grab him tell him
daguerre's got to sneak a little dabby
cheddar bob has uh some nine pound hammer locked in the pipe right now as we so this is nine pound
so shout out to red dirt race he's been a fantastic host for us the uh this entire time
come on over bro
don't mind the guy dabbing on the on the floor there
oh yeah i i like our discreet dabbing
i like our discreet dabbing i like our discreet dabbing
all right pop on in here bud all right when we get a carter creek uh hopefully he'll be coming
down here in a second so for you guys that don't know uh 918 og uh i believe he's won several
cowboy cups which is kind of like the main uh cup of the year for the carter creek team
so i'm gonna go ahead and get him on the screen and we'll get him on the screen and we'll get him
on the screen and we'll get him on the screen and we'll get him on the screen and we'll get him on
i believe he's won several cowboy cups which is kind of like the main uh cup here in oklahoma
maybe i can grab something
thank you so these are one of those awards that i was telling you guys about this is the
cowboy cup i might even have vanna white come over and show it off look at that belt buckle
yeah and that's kind of how they do it here in oklahoma they're showing off when you win i think
it's cooler than the the cups yeah i love wearing belt buckles i have one on myself
all right so this is 91918 og how's it going today and you'll be just talking to that mic
right there roger roger there we go uh so we want to kind of uh let our viewers know they might be
not be that familiar with your work sir so we kind of wanted to talk about you know the awards that
you've been winning you know the reputation that you've been building uh here in oklahoma well
basically my reputation is just off of what i do all i'm trying to do right now is create the
medicine um roger um again it's hard to get used to that's no problem yeah um so uh i got into
ice water hash making uh try and use uh you know building my way up kind of from that standpoint
really kind of built who i am on this standpoint only using the best of what i could find and
whatever i wanted to smoke really is what i so i'd start off really small didn't really get all
over oklahoma and um what i'm trying to do right now is really kind of grow that up and be able to
kind of branch out and be able to supply this to everybody because this is the future right here
absolutely so let's talk about some of this stuff so what was it that made you stand out at the
cowboy cup so the first year to 2019 uh there really weren't hundreds of entries there was you
know it was hash rosen was very new they even had it was uh they didn't really know what to call all
the divisions and one of them they called solventless uh working through that with uh
with cowboy cup guys basically what that meant was ice water hash so they had their own division
for ice water hash and then a division for rosin so um you know the entries that came in that year
and everything there was you know there was some really good entries hilltop everybody really a
battle you know uh but to pull that one off it really comes down to the strain and finding the
right plant to make ice water hash um because it was the the strain on that was just amazing it was
a morning wood you know and so uh that's really what won it for me um not only that it was just
you know it was a beautiful product but that was still in the you know a lot in the beginning
of where i was today i don't wash like that anymore you know back everything as it's different
higher quality at this point so and jump to 2020 and i've got to come in and defend my belt you know
exactly so uh and it was way more competition i mean everybody got into the the division and
they did the division great i was really proud of how they did the competition out there
actually you know and so um the entry that i put in uh one third place in the ice water hash
and then one first place in the rosin and you know it's amazing what that that difference is
ice water hash is its own high it's you know it's got its own uniqueness to it um taking it turning
it into rosin and then doing with it what we do you know that's really i think where the future of
rosin is because it all starts with the fire product starting product yep and to speak of
the starting fire product great segue carter creek just walked up here so he's coming on
here he's providing that fire product exactly on that canvas yeah i think we got another microphone
how about this uh you come on down here and i'll get in the middle all right there we go so uh you
know i feel like i'm telling a lot of the viewers the stuff that they know but obviously you need a
quality canvas to start with yep um so that's where uh carter creek cannabis comes in so let's
kind of talk about you know your company and uh and what you guys are doing and the collabs that
you're doing because obviously you're providing a quality canvas for this gentleman to then use his
artwork and his techniques take it to the next level and start making a name and a brand for
himself i know you're doing the same thing with jinx proof as well you guys are partnered up here
in oklahoma and you guys are going out of your way to provide quality uh again canvas flower material
to the oklahoma market we'd love to share that with our views well um i don't even know where
to begin to tell you the truth let's just start off with your growth side you know um that's where
it all begins what made you get in uh with jinx proof as well uh so me and jace got hooked up at
some shows it's been i don't know a year or so back year and a half ago and um man we just hit
it off instantly you know his family my family you know just kind of fell in love with each other
and um he's about he's about everything you know he's about being positive that's kind of what he
has his catchphrase for those that don't know be positive yes sir yeah and i mean it's just kind
of like our souls just kind of collided good people and yeah good people exactly and they
bring you know he brings just such positive to all the cannabis community yep and um it's just
it's like hand in hand you know we're like a big family and then you know to come along with it he
brought all these crazy genetics i'm going through a bunch of new uh pheno hunts right now that's got
some exclusive strains that he made only for carter creek jeremy's fixing b washing all that hash
coming down there's some there's some really neat stuff and so and it's like a bonus you know what
i mean like um i mean jeremy knows we're hanging out it's it's just everybody's like a big family
when we're together so it's it's cool and fun yeah so what are some of the the cultivars that
are coming out that you really like washing here in uh oakland different growers and all
well just different cultivars different uh strains different strains yeah um you know i'm always
looking for one that's going to produce well you know and there's a lot of things that go into that
whether it's like a water soluble you know um a lot of times with the plant itself uh it's just not
feasible or economical i should say to be able to wash everything so a lot of times you know i'm
washing things that i don't really get my hands on a lot but um you know any type of your strawberries
or bananas you know those exotic kind of flavors yeah not only are they do they taste really really
good you know and that comes through with the ice water house you're not messing with the taste at
all so you know i'm drinking that turf water is coming off the bottom of my bags so uh it's uh
those i really enjoy doing those you know a lot of ones that i've been able to get on like the
girl scout pigs i really like anything that's kind of got that wedding cake or anything to that nature
uh peanut butter breath i've got i did a couple of those that uh that he did that uh i think i
think it's peanut what is it uh i hadn't told you this yet but it's peanut butter ice cream cake is
what it is peanut butter ice cream cake i like it's so good phenomenal so how did you guys link
up i mean obviously this is a fantastic little duo here you're winning awards local awards here
in oklahoma uh you obviously putting yourself on the map you know partnered up with one of the
kindest people in the industry you know and i'm sure i don't have to tell you guys that there's
not too many people like jinx proof out there that are always going out of their way to be positive
shit happens to him he just keeps rolling that's actually for the viewers you know unfortunately
that's the reason why jinx wasn't able to be on the show uh it's because he had some uh some health
issues so we wish him the best we wish his family the best uh we're just here to promote him and
you know the fact that he's partnered up with you i think speaks high volumes of you sir i know
we just met and everything but uh you know there's there's a lot to be said when you see a lot of
collabs uh in this industry and i see that you also won a cannabis cup i didn't i didn't even
see that before so uh yeah the uh the people's choice i enjoyed that one a lot that was that
was good i mean got a lot of product out to a lot of people like 200 and some people so that's the
most that's probably the most rewarding yeah right there i mean you get a people's choice it's not
about paid in judges or anybody i mean that's a real vote right there yeah i like i like the way
you guys are saying that because there is a lot of hardware out there that people but uh yeah i
mean that it's all competitions i kind of have a different view on them right now and everything but
uh there's certain ones that i think are that if they're done correctly you know people's choice
is good like that it's still just kind of out there you know with the way it's done um
but it's it's just fun to be my point earlier was is um what i do can only be it's only so much
magic you know it's the starting product so we're all on that same level you can throw leaf logic
and uh cicada uh all those guys up there with me but i i inspire you know to sure and making
really good products so um but it's the starting fire it's the starting product that's that's the
that's that's the really what what makes i think all the difference you know it does what makes
what starts everything then what i can do is come in and take things that i've learned
like almost like a chef and do jar tech and culinary and diamonds and you know all kinds
of other extractions once it's done and pressed to be able to add that that that's really that
next level i feel like on hash side because we can all make great stuff but i can only only so
many great growers you know so you've got to make those you know keep that going art back to the
beginning i think your question was is like how did we get started and uh we had met each other
you know different shows different things like that and then through a you know what kind of
connection i was able to process their stuff for them and uh from there we just kind of grew that
out and made a like a real collaboration between the two of us so he's like we've got some pretty
special stuff coming down the pipe yeah i mean there's gonna be some stuff coming that he'll
have that nobody there that nobody's got but me and him you know and those things are you talking
about all the the flavors and stuff that one of our new strains will be putting in flower the next
two weeks or so is the troubadour strain that's a it's a sunset sherbert by dosi do by go time it's
a jinx fruit strain he made for us and you know when he crosses the strain he usually tries to
go back to the original breeder if possible or to somebody there next to them and get in a clone or
original clone or cutting you know that's how he does his breeding he doesn't just go buy a pack
of seeds that came from another breeder he actually goes and gets clones and does his breeding that
way so he actually knows who he's getting what from when he does his breeding so and it shows
up when you go buy a pack of seeds pop them it's like uh getting a candy store so uh as more and
more oklahoma people see 918-OG and they also need to know that that is always going to be coming from
carter creek are you doing other collabs with other growers as well yeah so i'm really ramping
up to what we're doing right now i've got i've got my own grow okay and and so that's always kind of
like a special drop that i like to do that's like it's uh outdoor grown so i'm you know i kind of i
like the trichomes i'm trying to grow a trichome basically and so i'm going with sun grown trying
be able to do limited releases on that um but i'm always looking for you know to be able to product
because i basically i'm going to take his product and i can highlight it and i can say you know and
then that highlights everything from his side i can do that with multiple companies you know
and be able to highlight that standpoint and um and i love being on you know instagram and doing
educational type things and just videos and stuff until i give you too much product you can't watch
i have i went ahead and i bought two more freezers yeah but no that's true we just
brought another building online last week i just i'll just add more but yeah that's true
you better get ready yeah i appreciate it i've already got enough heartburn every day
the other thing i've noticed in oklahoma though which is really cool coming from colorado is that
a lot of you guys are self-funded cell phones you don't have to have a board that you have to
answer to kind of thing you guys are able to make quick decisions you know buy certain seeds that
come on to the market and grass blows up so that's something that i feel like uh can we kind
of talk about that i mean so so there's a way to keep that from happening and that and in the way
i i've been about it and that's how i met jeremy it's about it's about a getting a good group of
us all working together yeah and not just not just one grower one processor i mean you it's not
jeremy i mean he needs to have a little bit of a variety you know what i mean um just like yeah
yeah and it but but everybody helping each other you know what i mean we it's a you can you can
become corporate america by like a co-op everybody's working together everybody takes care of
each other if we get to where we don't take care of each other then corporate cannabis will step in
and we'll be everybody will be squashed out you know it won't become a culture anymore it'll just
become a label that you buy at the easy mart and you know that's not what we're after i believe in
the lifestyle of it the culture of it i mean um i harvested my first crop before i turned 16 years
old you know what i mean so i mean i live and breathe it my whole family does my wife comes
from four generations of growing cannabis you know so there's a picture on my instagram you
have to go kind of far back through there there's a picture of her and her daddy in her daddy's
garden last summer gotta go look at it yeah definitely yeah so what are some of the genetics
you said uh jinx proof created what are some of the unique things that we're going to see coming
out of park so right now we've got a new strain coming out called troubadour and it's a sunset
sherbert by dosi do by go time we're putting that in flower rooms now then we've got um another one
we got is uh well my brain's not working this baba uh no it's um here's an example
the lemon glaze it'll come back to me in just a second lemon glaze mimosa that he that i processed
just the other day off of his stuff yeah i can see why you're winning awards you know uh
unfortunately right now there's not maybe the last time i'm gonna say it right now go time by tangy
cream before i forget it we're gonna call it tangy time it's yeah so there we go okay good yeah it's
tangy and cream by go time okay yeah that's another one and i've got a couple more but i'll
bring this to it off i may interrupt you again if there's no problem and you guys are growing in
soil or how are you cultivating uh-huh yes sir so we're growing in uh the soul king big root soul
okay patrick yes sir that's our guy excellent that's our guy and then we uh using house and
garden nutrients on our nutrients right now yeah i saw them just just back over there as well so
yeah yeah a lot of big brands here at canna con like we've mentioned at the start of the show
this kind of reminds us of the bigger shows that we used to see back in denver when we had that
electric vibe in the air when things kind of just opened up i feel like oklahoma had that and uh
covid shut it down and now obviously today we're seeing that again that there are people that are
excited and want to buy genetics probably want to come take your crown sir that's right come get it
yeah well uh how can we find out more about you guys uh find out more about park creek sorry
there you go park what now how do we find out more about you your your website 918 og on instagram
yeah so it's 918 og underscore uh you've got to put in the underscore it's like shadow band stuff
it's like two down it's a yellow circle and it looks like that but uh 918 og i've got a lot of
videos on there like i said i like to do educational stuff and i'm always showing off uh you know like
as we're washing as we're pressing and as i'm jar tech and i'm kind of go through the whole procedure
and then you'll see and you're like all right let's come in the market and uh it's fun to kind
of hype up and watch that all right and uh what will we see coming from you like later in the year
you guys you're gonna really ramp up and start to pump this product statewide yeah like right now
i've already got 10 different strains of carter creeks that we're going to be dropping starting
next week all i'm waiting on right now is 10 more just got cut this week right so i mean we're going
to have what's going to be great we're going to have so many different flavors to pick from yeah
and um i decided to kind of wash figure out what you like and then uh yeah and then we'll be testing
yeah a lot of that's going to be you know testing and see if does this one actually produce or does
something else need to be done with that product instead of washing kind of stuff but you know at
least we'll work when he does testing it it's not like a pound we're testing like 10 pounds so
we're gonna be we'll have something that comes to market almost of every flavor yeah and we don't
and most importantly everyone wants to know what's in that big mason jar oh shit yeah
yeah they're pretty good they're really good yeah let's talk about it so um on the market out there
there are there's nothing edibles wise that doesn't contain sugar that's not a gummy that's i
mean there there's a few there's a couple things out there you're mixing stuff you know kind of
stuff like that but not just an edible you can pick up off the shelf uh that's not just full
of sugar so what i've created here are strawberries fresh strawberries can i have one
yeah you want to try one yeah i want to try one here we go
that um what i'm doing is just taking fresh strawberries and uh infusing them with ice
water hash rosin and it's not food grade ice water hash it's actual full pulls 40 uh full
spectrum 159 to 45 uh pulls and uh then i'm decarving that and then i'm infusing it into
these fresh strawberries and those are a thousand milligrams per dose did brian just do a thousand
milligrams how many milligrams is that he didn't ask yeah yeah yeah i feel like we can handle it
especially mr degear well if you want to talk okay well yeah so no this is for your average consumer
so this is like you want something to help you go to sleep at night but you don't want to eat a
brownie or a cookie you know every freaking night when you want to go to bed you can eat a handful
of strawberries you can take these and put them in your uh smoothies you can put them in your
cereals they'll reconstitute so they'll go back right now they're just crispy they'll go back to
more like this normal state but not really more like a zombie but um so these are these are pretty
these and they're so damn tasty yeah they're very good they're good for you you know there's there's
uh there's no sugar it's gmo do you see that comment what's that how do i get now how to get
brian in your van offer him uh edibles and weed yeah he's got a you know a knapsack full of the
stuff that would get me in his van for sure so now this is the thousand milligrams uh edible
pull just i swore that all um these show this off dude this was the grower's choice uh 2020
cannabis cup
so like they mentioned you know that's uh your peers are voting you on that which is pretty cool
anybody else want to try them hey man what's going on look at everybody
see you back there yeah we're gonna have arlie on the show here in a little bit as well
fuck yeah i should have brought some of my flower over here yeah i had samples over there i should
have brought them over i may be bringing back here in a little bit that's yeah i'll do another one
yeah they've been showing off uh we had the nine pound hammer from red dirt raised up here as well
you know
thank you oh man so would you evaluate that flower beautiful
very good so shout out to james if he's around yeah that's a good job brother i mean good
that's his pink gorilla pink gorilla
i like that one we were getting high as hell at that uh vendor party lesson
um is this mine good one it's quality right yeah you were growing too yeah i don't even have
two years i can i can tell just by looking at the jar it was good it's very good
so we uh we appreciate your time uh again you know we're uh we'll probably have you on the
show at some point you'll kind of dive deeper into what you're doing and dedicate a full show
i love it yeah i think we're gonna be in oklahoma a lot more so okay we'll be seeing each other
very cool man i appreciate it absolutely man love you guys on the show and everything
yeah please let jinx pro jinx proof know that we're uh thinking of him and his family and
that kind of stuff yeah he had a pretty pretty big ordeal for y'all that don't know when we had
the uh we were at the last show that the chronic palooza uh he flew home and he got home four
hours later he had a heart attack and he had a he had a he had a really bad heart attack yeah
and he also had a grand mal seizure at the same time and if he hadn't had been at the hospital
when he when he had the heart attack the seizures what got him there and if he hadn't been there
he wouldn't be here today i can't believe he's here working today he's a trooper man i'm like hey
you need to sit down and rest and man but he but you can tell he already feels better he had a he
had a hundred percent block in his aorta valve it looks a lot better yeah he's looking really
good yeah and man he just he you can tell he's a lot different his mind's even getting sharper he
thinks that it's not but his mind's no he's he's he's focused so yeah he's one of the one of the
nicest guys in the gang so we want to make sure that our thoughts are out for him as well that's
right and and everybody i made some posts on my instagram when he was sick i just want everybody
i appreciate all the love and support that they get reached out to him i mean there was thousands
of people responded to him yeah in time of need and prayer and that's that's what uh is good about
the oklahoma cannabis community we're just the cannabis community everywhere everybody's like
that it's one most one thing i see more in cannabis than any other industry it's just it's it's driven
by love you know what i mean like everybody you don't ever see anybody arguing or fighting
they can have disagreements nobody gets i feel like that's a rare thing here in oklahoma you guys
you guys definitely have a unique i was telling some of the guys here that have like in your
experience your experience growing you guys got the willy wonka ticket you know and fuck yeah
if you really understand that where that can take you uh why would you want to fuck that yes you're
exactly right but exactly right but it goes back to just being good people living right you know
doing what you what we say you're going to do and doing it right and doing it and doing it good you
know so i mean yeah i appreciate it i really appreciate time maybe we'll maybe we'll do a uh
another get together on a podcast and uh maybe i can give you a little testimony about cannabis
and what it's done for me in my life absolutely man we'd love to have you guys back to our own
show maybe you'll understand my passion for it as much you'll know what it's all about all right
but i do got to get back over and help you understand that but we'll be here all weekend
maybe we can get together i may hopefully i'll see you at the party tonight too
all right all right thank you brother yes sir all right uh if you could grab orly
orly my god we got just a stream of people coming to your dog shop oh okay well where'd they go
it's like herding cats well uh like i said man it now that there's a shit ton of people in here
it's it's getting harder and harder to find people while also getting super
stoned people that'd be like don't move you're up next biowag wants to come on
all right well uh where are well they don't have a booth so now we gotta call them all right we're
gonna call biowag real quick i'm gonna take a little sneak gap here yeah sneak that in
yeah this is where i need the uh like the music that's ready to play while we're killing time
where's the dab
i don't know
all right take the mic
it's alex olsen from biowag excited to see biowag
uh dr faust will uh since i know alex is watching and maybe vick will hopefully come
on very soon on one of the uh we will dedicate an entire two hours just to him
ah yeah chad let's get uh because bait well all right so let me see if i can cue up some
some while we wait mood music everyone give me a second brian tell us some jokes yeah right i am
not the guy for that um arlo you want to come on for a little bit and we'll have you come on and
while we're waiting yeah you said he said he's down okay yeah so this is arley this is somebody
that is a newer uh to the network that we got uh but i would say that his um artwork is up there
with some of the people that we rock with in denver and it's really rare to see him on the
network and uh he's a really good guy and he's a really good guy and he's a really good guy and
is up there with some of the people that we rock with in denver and it's really rare to see to be
honest here in oklahoma uh he definitely has a skill set and he's working with some of the higher
end farmers including brandon rust here in oklahoma we're going to be talking with brandon later today
we're going to be talking with ari as well kind of like a fun debate uh so we're just excited to
be able to continue to move this thing forward man we'd love to kind of show off your artwork
if you will yeah man i appreciate you guys having me so uh i've got some i've got uh i do all
solventless right now so we make everything into bubble hash everything into a hash rosin
i've got indoor outdoor light depth this is the sour cushman's collab that we did with
brandon black label organics yeah shout out that we had a nice little dinner with brandon
and his wife last night so shout out to them brandon was a fantastic host this is some uh
black cherry punch somebody almost finished the jar with it but uh it ain't left enough to keep
it smelling that is a red dirt nursery over up in northwest oklahoma they're really uh
growing some really nice stuff inside yeah it's uh it's pretty cool i went to a high school with
a bunch of these cats uh another hash maker in state cicada i went to high school me him uh about
five other people on our class we had a class like 200 people five of us are in the industry now so
wow yeah it's pretty cool i will say man your your stuff is the best that i've personally smoked uh
you know here in oklahoma and i wanted to have you on the show because i'd love to kind of dive
deeper in so you know when you're working through the canvas as we're the previous guests were kind
of calling it right they're giving you the flower and now you need to take that and use your your
expertise to create what what you're showing off today sure what is really sticking out when you
are looking at that flower i know the the general we want to kind of dive deeper into that sure so
i guess like first thing i look at um initially as i say is an indoor outdoor uh and then what
is it grown in is it grown organically is it salt-based nutrients that are going into it
um i really prefer living soil that comes through like the in the flavor you know not necessarily
the look the color uh the nose on it or anything like that it's more like a taste like whenever
you actually spend that money get that gram home and get into it and really feel satisfied with
that instead of like disappointed like oh the taste really isn't there you know it's got a
really nice color but the taste isn't there so um and you equate sorry you're equating most of that
to living soil you're saying like what's keeping those terpenes around yeah is cultivating in a
living soil system yeah whenever the plant decides and i'm more of a hash maker than i am a grower
but i speak from experience of what i've seen i've washed it and i've smoked what i've got off of
that and so i've built my knowledge from that you know just exposure to it and hands down every
single time you can have a lesser looking product grown in living soil some really nice stuff grown
inside you know like inorganically and the flavor just isn't going to be there you know and it's
something like that's like really the biggest thing to me is like finding whenever the plant decides
i'm going to eat this and i'm going to eat this and i'm going to eat this because i'm trying to
be the best plant that i can it produces something a lot better in the final product than i'm going
to turn you off and you're going to eat what i say right and you're going to grow the way i want you
to grow and i feel like there's a lot that has to be said with uh you know like the natural plant
stresses that uh greenhouses and outdoor material goes through that indoor material doesn't that
sort of makes it a stronger healthier plant and or maybe maybe not necessarily like healthier but
more like it's it's like a roughed up plan it's got the sun beating down on it you know it's got
the the the wind blowing on it and everything and it's sort of like that natural plant stress
its whole life really causes those heads to harden up and you'll be able to collect those a lot more
you're a lot more uh inclined to get something that doesn't wash like it will grease up in your
bag or something that's been grown indoors because it's like such a perfect environment
and it was you know cradled its whole life so much that those heads are just like little glass
balls you know and it's really strain dependent from there to where okay i'm going to take this
i'm going to grow it inside i'm going to cover it in little glass light bulbs but
because that strain is so perfect it's gonna then wash at five percent or something right you know
and that's another thing a great little segue there i want to talk to you what are real
percentages because there's a lot of people out there that you know instagram that's hard to check
a lot of these guys they're claiming this they're claiming that you know you're working with a
variety of people what are you naturally seeing that's that's coming back percentage-wise i mean
if you hit if you can find something that washes at five percent fill your garden full of it and
run that you know what i mean um generally speaking i've probably done maybe let's call it
right out about a hundred strains in the last year that i've got to like wash through and
you know whether it be indoor outdoor and uh light depth in october november i got to see
you know close to 50 000 pounds of fresh frozen in the state it was really cool no plant count
the no canopy restrictions it allows people you know to like really do what they want to do and
not be you know hindered by the giant price of the permit to be able to do it you know so a lot more
time and money can be spent on growing the quality you know and um the one thing i'm noticing in
oklahoma is maybe the yields aren't quite as high on average as what i might be getting in
washington or california right but on average the hash is so good in oklahoma it's insane i have
it feels like kind of like a rainforest sometimes yeah yeah it's very wet very uh lush and tropical
yeah yeah it went through a crazy drought for like 15 years and about 10 years ago it started
raining again and it's been i came back for a reason because i mean i really feel like it's
just like other than it being home to me it's just a really unique environment that you know
it's kind of in the middle of nowhere oklahoma you know nobody even thought about moving to oklahoma
2017 nobody even thought it would pass to be honest yeah i didn't i really didn't i thought
that it would be one of the last states you know i figured it'd be like the 50th state to like okay
but they okayed it and they gave some uh they made the laws uh the reason that i'm able to make what
i make is because the laws are what they are here so i can have some stuff that i wash and it washes
at two percent but because of the taxes and the price for testing and everything being so much
lower than it is in other states i'm able to do more of like a craft small batch here that you
can't do in like other states you know and so like and i don't go to the dispensary and then want to
mark it up three times you know to be able to cover all of their crazy 35 taxes and everything
like that you know if you get a dispensary that's out of city limits they pay seven percent cannabis
tax you know so i mean they don't have to mark it up so it's i'm able to make a more craft product
you know and so really the quality comes from the people in oklahoma doing it right yeah first you
know i feel really fortunate to be able to be here and provide this for everybody here for some of the
new viewers that are thinking about washing thinking into getting into this are there certain
breeders that stick out for you where you watch them it doesn't really even matter you know the
the grower to it it just seems like those genetics are tried and true that's something you want to
put your money into yeah i think with that it's sort of uh you know i was kind of talking back
there with them earlier uh whenever i moved down from washington to california you know i was making
bubble hash with organic uh cannabis up in uh near oroville you know uh and i would i was down
in the bay area and people would tell me i was crazy that they would never put anything that
wasn't de-waxed and winterized and turned into diamonds in their rig let alone their lungs you
know and like they wouldn't buy the hash rosin for 20 a gram and then fast forward six months
those 20 grams are worth 80 you know and so from from that being such a quick thing i say that
because it's the evolution of those genetics people are looking for washers now more than
they have ever been and so there are quality washers because they need to you got to make me
look good right i got to make you look yeah and they're looking primarily for the the dumpers you
know it's like find something that will dump at five plus percent and then breed in some taste
into that and try not to take away from like that yield and i think you know there are certain
breeders out there that have really focused on the solventless production side of am i dropping
any names that stick out for you um uh yeah i mean i i don't want to like leave anybody out you know
i have partners um that i really i rely on them to really source me what genetics that they've been
growing a lot longer than i have they have 40 years of grow experience between the two of them
and so uh purple city genetics out of the bay area gonna be running like a lot of their stuff
uh cali caveman uh he does a lot of hunting for aficionado he sent me about 900 beans leo stone
yeah i like that guy a lot yeah so uh they do a lot of like really cool stuff i like working with
uh people you know that are a little bit more uh in the back you know that aren't you know i like
hype don't get me wrong i i like some of the stuff but i'm i i find it cooler this this stuff in the
back you know that you can really hunt out and find some really quality stuff from there yeah
and there's some uh um people in the state you know that have uh they've came here for for that
because the state allows them to do the phenol hunting with the no plant count and the stuff
like that you know so um i have to give a shout out to full sun farms over in southeastern oklahoma
yeah great man friends i'm friends with them top shelf man like just great resin man great resin
uh something i noticed like in oklahoma is it's kind of weird i have all i have like 40
strains on my menu right now and every single jar goes to that wet batter consistency and just stays
that wet batter consistency and like it it doesn't need to be in the fridge it can ride around with
the car and that is not the instance in a lot of like other places like cali if i have some wet
batter and walk around with it in my pocket it's shock at the end of the day you know i don't know
if it's the humidity or like what it is but it's on like 99 of the resin that comes off of the
plant here it might not dump at five percent but the two percent that i do get is top quality resin
almost every time so if you're not getting five percent is that more just like almost kind of a
waste of time for you i mean no um because i it's it's so much work that even at like i mean i don't
i don't do it for like a lack of work or needing to make money i do it because i'm kind of like a
little bit sick and i really like every single wash that i do i want that hash to be better than
like the last jar of hash that i made and now i've made you know seven eight nine hundred different
jars of hash over my career and i still want the next one to be better and so i wake up like excited
to go out and meet new farmers and new growers and meet people like you and like you know everybody
that that focuses on the like the resin you know and the the waste of time is i get it where it's
if you if you have a garden and somebody paid for it or you need to get paid back you know and you
can't pay yourself back at two percent then you you can't wash it but you know it's like have an
indoor have an outdoor run the two percenters outside with your no plant count no canopy
restrictions you know and then pack the the really good ones inside you know because it costs
you so much more to grow inside but i'm more i'm i'm more uh at two percent i'll double my wash size
you know i'll work a little bit harder and i'll sort of you know it's twice the size but half the
yield's like you know six and a half dozen another so so for the newer viewers again let's kind of
go into what does it actually take to make this because you know you've mentioned price people
balk at the price but i think if they actually knew what went into making this and the amount
of material that you need uh you know we're gonna have to go deep into it are you working the hand
paddle or you have a wash machine or my instagram is uh at lost underscore roots underscore hash
yep did you hear him he asked you a question right before that i didn't know what was their
that was me uh now just saying are you uh working the paddle or yeah dan okay yes i uh
i was really looking forward to uh potentially getting one of the uh low temp washing machines
and uh i've got a 75 gallon stainless steel barrel and a paddle that i'm just i'm really
really really fond of and like i said every jar hash that i make i want to be
uh better than the last one and i know how to run the paddle i know how my barrel behaves i've got a
cold room i've got a cold barrel and um it's it's just like one of those things man i really feel
like the more that i put into it the better that this is and uh most of the work is done before it
even comes to me i don't like to take too much of the credit honestly because like you know a
a patient friend of mine grew this another farmer grew this um brandon grew that one you know red
dirt nursery grew that one like i didn't do anything to make any resin i just collected
the resin that they grew so without them i'm not doing anything you know and so they have to
whenever you ask how much work goes into that like 80 of the work that's like let's talk to the farmer
about that one then whenever it's ready to harvest so you have to go in you know you take it down you
take each plant you take off every fan leaf off of it you want to buck it down um take it off of the
stem to about like the size of like a quarter so if you can imagine turning a whole 40 light room
into bags of quarter size nugs you know and you're putting that into the deep freezer as quickly as
you possibly can we'll add a couple hundred dollars for the dry ice to the deep freezer to really zap
it down really cold really quick and the reason that it tastes and looks and smells the way it
does is because it's like the true essence of the plant it was frozen in time and we got it and we
put it in the freezer and then that that trichome head was frozen and was stable at that point
then we took that we're going to take that we're going to put that into ice water in a cold room
that we work in a room that's 36 degrees between 36 38 degrees we go in there we put the frozen
flour in there and with the ice and the water we agitate it with a paddle gradually getting longer
and a little more rough with it theoretically the best trichomes and your best resin on the
on the bag that you're working with should almost just be falling off with no agitation the most
mature trichome heads you know they've it's like a cherry falling off a tree Frenchy has a really
cool little thing there that he does with the the best one is the one that is on its way to the
ground you know so then the less ripe trichomes you know you got to work it a little bit more
they've got to soak a little bit more so we'll typically do between three to five washes
um it takes we wash about 16 pounds at a time uh it takes us about you know four hours to do that
um I take that we're between every pull we're putting that in the deep freezer so we're keeping
everything frozen I put that into a freeze dryer which takes it down to negative 40 you know keeps
it frozen that whole time and then the particular way that I press on my rosin press at home is I
use a little bit more heat than most people do but I'm about half the amount of time that they
are so I really feel like exposure time to the heat is a bigger deal than how much heat you're
exposing it to so 160 degrees for three minutes is worse than 212 degrees for 45 seconds in my
opinion okay um and so once it comes out of that then I take that and you jar it up and you gotta
just wait because I do a cold cure so I put it in the refrigerator and you just wait some stuff
takes three to four days some stuff takes two weeks and it'll go from like a sap and it'll turn
into uh sort of a chalky consistency on the bottom and then up in the top will be your turps and
people will post that jar with the separation in it at that point you sort of take it you want to
homogenize that at that point but you don't want to overdo it that will cause it to you're working
a lot of air into it so then it'll cause it to oxidize from the inside out and so that's where
some of the crumblingness comes from uh one of the ways uh keeping it the wet batter like that is
catching it at the perfect time whenever your ratio of you know solid cannabinoids to liquid
terpenes is at just the right level where you can work those liquids into the the solids and really
the at the perfect ratio the turps are almost dissolving the crystals as they're trying to form
and it keeps them in that that there's like a a turp force field on the outside of it anytime that
it tries to go up and become chalky it just hits that turps and gets re-dissolved and falls back
into it so right on that was extremely well explained it's just like I mean I've I've
I've sit at home and have thought about what's going on in this in this jar for for many hours
you know people probably think I was crazy for how long I've looked at jars of hash and just
thought what's going on here well no I feel like you know the main thing with cannabis is that the
the end product is is you could tell me all of the stuff but I want to see your grow room I want to
see your end product your stuff is definitely uh a plus plus man I mean it's stuff that people uh
enjoy smoking I'm looking forward to hanging out with you tonight and partaking so I appreciate
that yeah man it's uh it's it's definitely somebody that uh you know we just became friends
and I wanted to put you on here because I feel like you're doing good work you're obviously big
on education and taking it to the next level yeah I feel like that's really like the it's the number
one thing you go into the dispensary with the highest wholesale that they've ever heard you
know and you offer one of the highest retails that's in the dispensary it you have to have a
reason you know and the reason is is it's the cleanest most pure true essence of what the
farmer grew it wasn't it wasn't mishandled in the dry cure anything like that it wasn't set on the
shelf and has degraded and dried out you know it's the true essence of what the grower grows so again
I have to give a huge shout out to uh all the growers that I've had the uh fortunate chance to
work with here in Oklahoma and everybody uh keep going doing great when you dab what uh what
temperature do you like to dab at and what device do you like to what are you smoking out of so my
preferred method would have to be a nice large cold start on a uh probably like a 35 mil uh
banger with a thick bottom I put that put the cold start in there put the carb cap on I hit it
full blast on the bottom for 10 seconds and then I just give it a ring around the outside
and I like to do that because I really feel like I get any turps that I go from zero to you know
550 560 or something like that on the cold start so I really get a taste all of the turps you know
I'm not putting it on there and some of the turps that were a little more volatile already burned
before I get to it I get it from zero all the way through so I like the turpsurfers too though
they're fun yeah and I can't uh I wish we had smell-o-vision Peter because uh this stuff is
fantastic man and I hope that uh more Arleys uh show up in Oklahoma because you know there's a
lot of guys trying to show us stuff last night that's definitely not at this level and uh you
know your work stands out buddy and I'd love to uh sneak a sneak attack and uh do a little dab
down there well while you guys are dabbing uh we got some got some questions we gotta uh put that
down I was gonna say we got some alpha blondie that's nice
when we get at least Arley doesn't have a bright red hat right blends it yeah so when are you
gonna DJ for us Peter? I uh well so one of the issues with DJing is that everything gets dinged
for copyright um I did it a couple times like last summer I mean I'll do it again
I need like the uh burner channel to do it on and then that channel gets taken down
yeah that's nice that's nice
that doesn't make these guys full screen yeah that doesn't look weird at all
totally normal some completely heterosexual stuff going on back there
the uh thing turned off we thought we were doing wait did the bright red hat just make a cameo
I just saw it popping off screen
uh so I can go grab uh if Bio Ag Begara is ready otherwise I could get Humboldt Steves
Bio Ag didn't reply to the phone call we'll have to just play that by ear
also we can grab Royal Gold here in a little bit they're my neighbors they're supposed to be here
they were scheduled for they were scheduled first actually yeah I talked to Michael
on the phone earlier and he I one of the things we thought was him and Colin from
Mammoth Microbes just working out on microbes and soil and plants and roots
I used to do this thing about all day all right I'm gonna go grab uh Humboldt Steves
all right we will actually I might as well smoke some weed myself
does anyone have any complaints about the music yeah it's not loud enough
there we go
hopefully this will not get uh get us Trent broadcast uh or transmission killed
so tell me what was so why we still have you like what you you came to Oklahoma from you you said
you were in California before yeah I was I grew up in uh northwest Oklahoma and uh about 10 years
ago I uh I didn't want to work in the oil field or a restaurant and so I felt like my options were
pretty limited in the state uh back then and so I moved out to Washington state and uh worked at
a really large indoor grow for a while and then uh started my own outdoor farm and then
uh met a girl and she led me down to the Bay Area and uh once I got down to the Bay Area
uh I met some really cool dudes uh my partners right now that I'm growing with are uh uh ERB
Farms from uh Alameda uh their farm uh their farm actually uh burned down a while back and you guys
had a little uh seed auction for them for their farm burning down wait sorry I was just I was
getting my uh bubbly water uh are you talking about Desperos uh no uh ERB Farms yeah yeah so
uh I met them a few years back out there and I uh I uh really wanted to them to come out here
and join me and uh finally after after a while they finally got out here so we got a grow going
on and uh got indoor and outdoor and doing the processing the whole thing but when there's like
an a like a hash event happen I mean obviously maybe not recently but like are you seeing people
who are kind of migrating from all over the country to Oklahoma because like Brandon came
to Oklahoma from Southern California like the weed capital of the world right yeah yeah like I
was saying I mean like uh there's more hash at most Oklahoma dispensaries than you'll see in
the dispensaries of California and the reason that is is just because of like the taxes and
the things like that is people can't afford to produce it in California and you actually get it
uh
check your IG I will check my IG and KNF Gardens is here oh hi you can see the uh
so so BioAg is here should we just bring them on sure
thank you
check check check
look at that stoner picking up sticks picking up sticks yeah picking up sticks
yeah sound good can you hear yourself fine in the headphones
so we have a we have a rule that every everyone who comes on
we we have we have a rule that everyone who comes on has to do a little dance in the chair oh yeah
yeah nice
we got BioAg in the audience as well we got Alex Olson oh Alex now I have to say guys that uh
BioAg products for me when I was first starting out uh was really a game changer especially uh
that main full power product when I would use that as a foiler fee when I would f**k up if I
had some deficiencies that was my go-to especially when I first even started out doing some consulting
work and we would walk into a a massive thing that we need to fix that was one of the products that I
would reach for we would go get so I definitely um you know this is something I have you guys on the
show is an honor for me because I feel like your products have made me a lot of money throughout
the years and fixed a lot of mistakes throughout the years as well that's what we're glad to hear
um so let's kind of like get into your products on you know a lot of our viewers are newer farmers
are newer to like living soil in general trying to understand the soil web trying to understand
ideas and concepts so let's dive deeper into that uh today okay um so first we should probably just
go over kind of what the BioAg products are yeah um so our main product is our full power product
that is our um depending on the state it's either registered as a hydrophobic fulvic acid
or as a humic acid product um but essentially what it is is it is a the fulvic acid fraction
of a humic acid molecule correct and and we can get we'll get more into that in a sec
um other than that our other products um would be other main products are full humics that's our um
our uh dry soluble humic acid product uh we have tm7 which is a humic acid uh the same full humics
humic acid product plus seven micronutrients and then cytoplus is essentially tm7 so you've got
the micronutrients the humic acid along with um kelp a kelp product uh bam is our endo mycorrhizal
fungi it's seven different uh mycorrhizal fungi species uh and they basically um are used to
create symbiosis with the root system 100 build that fungal network everybody's after yeah and so
so basically um we're kind of hoping to kind of get more into the humic acid fulvic acid distinction
and what the differences are i don't know kind of how much yeah no this is what i want like i know
it's in the products but forget that you guys make products just drop some knowledge on humic
fulvic and what they are and what they do and everything everything you know about them and go
oh okay so basically so and josh you can okay well i'll let you start with the technical stuff and
i'll take it from there gotcha okay um so basically humic acid is an organic um basically uh uh humic
acid is an organic molecule uh it's a set of molecules so humic acid itself is not like an
element so nitrogen is an element uh and elements can come in different forms you can have nitrates
you can have nitrites you can have um different forms however humic acids uh is a category of
molecules so there are more than 600 identified humic acids uh same with fulvic acids it's a
categorized it's categorizing a molecule and so so the way in which humic acid works uh it can be
derived from different source materials so um it can either be mined it can be a lennardite product
peat is high in humic acid compost is high in humic acid vermi compost creates humic humic
acid um and essentially what humic acid does is it's the larger molecule fulvic acid is a small
fraction of a humic acid molecule and it is the most biologically active fraction of that humic
acid molecule and so what that basically means is it has a higher c to o ratio so it's very heavy
in carbons it has a lot of carboxylic groups um different uh aromatics different um
different alkaloids different basically different um components to the creating diversity and so
essentially what that does for for agriculture the way in which that works is humic acid does
one thing and fulvic acid does another thing humic acid because it's a larger molecule
it has more organic matter you're going to have more flocculation of the soil you're going to
have other effects of that and then as the humic acid molecule breaks down which takes natural a
natural process through either digestion or through you know fun microbes breaking it down
over time then the fulvic acid is released fulvic acid in itself our full power um is that isolated
fulvic acid molecule we've taken that out of the the humic acid molecule and what that does
because it's a much smaller molecule it's able to chelate better and so the way that chelation
works specifically with organic fertilizers is so most organic fertilizers come in in sulfate
forms that's kind of the traditional what's accepted by the organic community use a lot
of sulfate based fertilizers or other non-available sources of fertilizers typically if you're in a
a perennial crop production in agricultural setting you're doing years and years of production it
gives you time for those fertilizers to break down become available and so you're basically
you're working this year on fertilizer that was made available last year and the fertilizer
applying this year is going to become more available throughout the season you'll have
full availability next year in theory what humic and fulvic acid do is because they're so high in
these carboxylic groups is they essentially chelate those molecules so you can apply
organic fertilizers and what happens is the the molecule itself will wrap an ion so most
fertilizers not nitrogen but a lot of fertilizers are in the form of ions and what that does is it
basically makes it so that that ionic fertilizer that traditionally can't translocate through the
cell membrane or through the plant membrane becomes wrapped in organic in organic molecule
and so all the carbons are facing out and that allows it to translocate through lipid membranes
and so all cells are lipid membranes all plant cuticles are lipid membranes so by using the
fulvic acid combined with fertilizer you're able to penetrate into the into the plant penetrate
into either through spray through tank mixing or through the soil now the thing that makes our
fulvic acid unique is that we extract it biologically and that's kind of what separates
us from the other fulvic acid products yeah most of them are extracted with uh what is it with acids
sodium hydroxide and stuff like that and and so basically so instead of that what we've done in
my mind it takes a lot longer but our full power what we start is we start out with a raw lennardite
um and we test all of our source material we're very specific on which mines we source from
where in the mine we source from and we test all of our incoming source material for its
fulvic acid content and so we guarantee a certain amount of fulvic acid content or we send it back
not just for the gas contest we test for heavy metals we test for arsenic we check for cadmium
we test for all the things that you find in cheap sub-quality humic acids which are all over the
and when i said don't hold anything back can you talk about uh like i i assume you're fine you're
seeing other metals when you test certain areas of the mine like that like can you talk about why
you pick from certain spots and what other spots may or may not have that you don't like yeah so
so a lot of um a lot of companies that will produce humic and fulvic acid products they're
a little less um specific about where they source from however humic the humic acid layer depending
our source is lindernite and depending on where in the mine it is it's a different
concentration of humic and fulvic acid and then you start getting into the coal and that's what
you don't want you don't want a black product coal is black and if it's black send it back
it's kind of our philosophy you see a lot of stuff labeled fulvic acid on the market that is not it's
black in color it looks like used motor oil that is not fulvic acid fulvic acid is gold yes a little
bit of that acid has a honey color to it it is not black and i would say you know a lot of us
back in the day we would just because they would take the label off that so we were not you know
the homies would come over and be like hey what is that bottom like oh it's something that really
and then they would finally just start calling it sunshine in a bottle yeah and then as your
friendship started to build they would actually reveal you know it's full power yeah and then
yeah so then basically those are what the other thing too is it's just all right i don't know
where i'm going with that i lost my train of thought he he was down there with you guys dabbing
between segments oh i wish uh but uh no not today not in oklahoma but uh uh the big difference that
we find between the stuff that we source versus a lot of other products is just the quality
we're going for stuff that's going to be used for human consumption or for cannons
right you cannot have heavy metals when you're growing cannons it will not work and we're also
big in agriculture too and they're they're screentime they're having metal testing not
always from it's got to be clean if it's going for food it's not always from a regulatory standpoint
sometimes growers specifically want lower heavy metals so some are not tagged very heavy like
they can be allowed but then some growers have found problems like aluminum is one of those
where a certain amount is allowed but above a certain level it causes issues for the growers
and so some growers want to stay away from products that have aluminum so a good way to check the
quality of your humic acid is check that msds sheet check those heavy metals if it doesn't
list aluminum it doesn't list capping why isn't it there probably because there's more than should
be there but it's the acceptable level but they don't want to advertise that sure you know that's
not good you know those are those are very bad things you know but it just depends on the source
and where they get it from you know a lot of the cheaper places to get it a lot of it's just an
inferior quality it's been polluted you know or it comes from a place where it was brackish water
where they're extracting some of the peat from and then it's got a high salt content so now you
got to deal with sodium on top of heavy metals and you know now you're dealing with more problems
you know instead of solving the problems with the supplements that you're using right so when I first
was using your products uh you know that the ogs if you were they were teaching us that humic is
like you had mentioned a heavier larger molecule so that needs to be a systemic feed where when
we're using the foiler products we want to put that out you know at that foiler feed do you guys
feel that same way can you spray uh humic acid oh absolutely uh one of my favorite uses for humic
acid is to use a foliar spray as a flower trainer you know because it's it one of its main functions
is uptakes micronutrients and when your plants go into flower their micronutrients needs double and
triple and if you can supplement that with a couple of sprays of tm7 or even better cyto plus
your plants are going to stay greener longer you're not going to get the leaf die off in week
three or four that you normally get with organic soil and the greener your plants are the longer
they're going to grow better flowers are going to get and the thing is with the humic and fulvic
too is there's other benefits for each one so humic the like the main benefit of both is going
to be chelation of nutrients but there are also other benefits in addition to that so the humic
acid it is it's like i mentioned the flocculation of the soil so if you're going with soil you
really want to use a humic product in the soil right um however the fulvic acid in itself does
have other and it's been shown through through data that humic or that fulvic acid does show
auxin like reactions you're not saying it's an auxin product it doesn't have the same effect
of an auxin but they have shown through tissue culture uh using a maris maris marischigian
scooge mix which is traditionally a synthetic auxin you use like a 2-4-d herbicide of auxin
can you say that word again nice and slow
yeah that one yeah so that that's just the recipe that's wait no no sit sit sit i'm gonna stop
talking give a pause and then say that big word again it's two names i'm pretty sure it's maris
marischigi and scooge and so an ms agar media that's what they say when they say an ms media
or use an ms agar to do tissue culture that's marischigi and scooge and so they were basically
they were just the two grandfathers of tissue culture who were the first to patent and design a
effective auxin based tissue culture recipe so essentially what they've done in studies though
is they've shown by taking out that and replacing it with a pelvic acid or a humic acid they can
have the same genetic pathway expression that they see when they use synthetic auxins it's not to the
same extent synthetic is still going to be higher but there are effects that are affecting the plant
which you know can you just add a little bit of kelp and try to get that same you can so kelp is
going to be higher in cytokinins or kelp is going to be higher in cytokinins but it does have auxin
but i don't know that's not what that wasn't included in that study but the mixing kelp with
you and humic seems to be the recipe i mean no matter what you're trying to do they'll always
make plants happy and it's almost impossible to overuse you know i don't know if anybody's
been able to hurt a plant with full power you know unless they're using it with a fertilizer
that makes it more available and the fertilizer burns because there is no fertilizer in the full
power there's no fertilizer in the humic it is ancient compost yeah no so kind of clean like for
a for a layman's point of view like humic is you know ancient compost fulvic is even ancient yeah
yeah you think of it like a diesel and gas one is you know humic is the raw form that is you extract
to get the gas you know but the gas is you know if it you know in a perfect world in my garden
i use about 30 to 40 percent humic to 60 to 50 percent fulvic acid you know because that's what
gives me the best growth out of my cannabis when i'm using living soil so i'm using fulvic acid in
my water pretty much from the day they root to the day they die you know except for flush because
that's just a waste you know but with my humic acid i'm using it more strategically in bloom
uh and the beginning of bloom and in my veg but if i'm doing like raised beds and i'm doing uh no
till now i'm using a lot more humic acid because i got to condition that soil i got to make sure
i regulate that ph got to make sure that i'm breaking down those rock dust and all that stuff
i got to put on top to make that stuff available otherwise it's just not going to work right and
your symbiosis isn't going to be there you know the more you go down the line with those organic
techniques the more you need to rely on stuff like fulvic and humic acid to get you those added
growth and stimulation that you normally get out of chemical fertilizers that you want to see out
of your organics but you don't yeah so the way i like to describe humic acid in like in laypeople's
terms essentially would be so you know what compost is right so your average because my
background is commercial agriculture i deal mostly not in cannabis i deal with perennial
crop production dry land wheat corn soy these are the crops i deal with what i explain it to your
traditional farmers is so you know compost right and you know fertilizer compost has fertilizer in
it right so you have an mpk plus micronutrients in your compost you can have an mpk synthetic
fertilizer however you take out the mpk you take out the mpk there are still benefits to the compost
and the humic acid in my mind a lot of that is because of the humic acid and so what that is is
basically because you can apply equal amounts of compost with the same mpk rating as a synthetic
fertilizer and a lot of the time you'll see a better effect with the compost but it really
doesn't matter where you're getting your compost and depending on how much humic acid's in it
one of the other you know bio stimulants in it but it's more it's that added extra so it's not
fertilizer it is that added bonus and that is what you don't get by growing in hydroponics right so
you don't grow with compost you don't grow with soil it's soilless media so they call it soil
growing but it's soilless right media cocoa pearlite cocoa pearlite hummus whatever even
uh complete liquid culture aeroponics deep water culture that's how i started out growing
aeroponics and that's and josh is a perfect example of this he he basically bridged the gap
he was like okay hydroponics is almost getting that you know there's something in between outdoor
or soil soil grown cannabis and hydroponic cannabis where how can we kind of like bridge
that gap is what was missing was the fulvic acid absolutely and so and for application wise the
way i would decide whether you want to use the full power of the full humic from the ag standpoint
the way i always bring it back to is how much time do you have what are your goals are you doing
a perennial crop is it over seasons if so maybe the humic's better you'll get the fulvic acid
but if it's oh we we did a tissue test we did a soil test we need boron we need iron we are low
on something okay use the fulvic it's going to be the most readily available it's going to chelate
the fastest it's going to penetrate into the plant and so there are cases where you should be using
both there are cases where you should just be using in my theory you should be using both always
but in hydroponics it doesn't make sense to be using the black humic but for the cleanliness
the hydroponic you say the fulvic but if for cannabis a 60-day crop whether you're doing
soil or soilless you know 60 to 120 day crop yeah the big problem that you have with running
but the big problem that i ran into running humic acids in hydroponic systems was the fact that it
made my reservoir so dirty and i don't know why my roots are black i don't know if it's the humic
acid that died in black or do i have root rot did my temperature go off i need to be able to see
through that reservoir and see to the bottom of it every day and if i don't see that and see
something growing in there i know i need to clean it you know and if i'm using a lot of humic acids
in there i can't see the bottom of the reservoir i don't like that so that's when i subbed out the
humic acids for fulvic acids and got a better response and larger the biggest thing that i
noticed running hydroponic nutrients chemical fertilizers and fulvic acids is way bigger
stocks and way wider roots you know and bigger stocks and wider roots give you bigger flowers
bigger roots big fruits yeah that's the the old adage there for sure you know but even using
organic fertilizer in a hydroponic medium can be done if you incorporate the right amounts of
fulvic acid have the right temperature for your reservoir and have the system set up properly
or organic hydroponics is totally something that can and will be done it's just it's a different
balancing act you know and it depends on how you want to get there you know me personally i i put
away the hydro stuff years ago and i'm a living soil yeah you know our whole show is even on
thursdays we normally have a show uh based out of uh well denver and los angeles and it's uh you
know living soil conversations i feel like you know we're going out of our way to try to educate
people especially in newer communities like in oklahoma because there's so many uh synthetic
nutrient companies especially when i first got started that made it seem like this was the only
way to cultivate cannabis and you really don't have that knowledge uh the salesman can really
get you oh they'll get i spent you know over 10 grand on my first little setup and it was
i got ripped off let's face it my thing is so and i i saw i saw a comment on on the the chat going by
but basically somebody commented basically well this you know this hydroponic line or whatever
fertilizer line still kicks soils ass check if it's got humic acid in it yeah it does well
it's all in the acid and it's all in the eyes of the beholder everyone can buy a ferrari not
everyone can get up to 150 well you know and what are you trying to grow what is the purpose here
are we growing medical are we growing commercial yeah you know is it medical 100 organic or is it
commercial as much as i can get for as i thc as i can produce you know those are two different
worlds they need to be treated differently and the guy we just had on before you arley i feel like
we're also getting to that point where the living soil crowd is creating that canvas for the
solventless crowd to really make a name for themselves we even had a 918 og i don't know if
you're familiar with him he wins a bunch of awards here in oklahoma he was kind of saying the same
thing i mean you need that canvas to start things off you need to obviously have that quality to go
with and that's why i feel like living soil is starting to take hold is because you know the
connoisseurs if you will they really do want the solventless so so brian speaking of living soil
and the thursday show layton heard we were talking about humic and he wanted uh he had something to
say excellent welcome what's up brother how are you man good to see you layton yeah uh how's how's
the scene down there brother you crazy uh it is popping off uh it reminds me of the the electric
in the air back in the day when uh denver had just kind of opened up shop um and i think it's kind of
happened twice here in oklahoma because uh you know three years ago when everything opened up
there was excitement and then kovic shut things down for a year and a half and then that excitement
has come back again nice so so people are mask free and cruising and having fun i haven't seen
one person with a mask on today i'm wearing a mask when i'm not on camera i have a microphone
i got medical issues so but i mean as a majority there's no uh restrictions and stuff like we have
you know brian's been making out with all the guests uh behind the dab table the dab bar they
squat down and and do things that the rest of us can't see and then they pop back up with
big grins on their faces so one guy's helping
hey if you could uh get your your phone closer to you layton it's kind of hard to hear you buddy
i think i think you just froze too
we're gonna all right finish your thought okay so my thing is what i wanted to kind of so a lot of
these products that are out there in the cannabis community a lot of these things that people are
using and growing they need to know what they're doing and so if you don't understand and that's
one thing that i really like about bioag is we're pretty straightforward we have fulvic acid this is
what it does we have humic acid this is what it does we have a vam my carousel this is what it
does our products don't have other ingredients if you don't know what every ingredient on the
bottle does for your plant figure it out or don't buy that right yeah ours is we are we are not a
product blender we are not taking a bunch of other people's humics and fulvics and my carousels and
just packaging it up mixing it with goo and sending it we make we manufacture the ingredients
and that's the gap i think between cannabis and the traditional ag guys is that a lot of guys are
just they're oh well because the salesman sold me on the bottle the stuff works he must know it's
the best and this and that no do your own research do your own and and especially like when it comes
to your own soil testing your own tissue testing one thing that people and where's my bag i have
it written down i just forgot the name of the organization but there is an organization you
can check soil labs out and see if they're accredited or not oh okay yeah and so we'd love
to learn about that kind of stuff because yeah there's there's certain labs i feel like that
the community will represent and then there's so many new ones popping up and my thing is so and
i'm not saying that if you're not on this list you're not a credible lab you're not a good tissue
lab you're not a good soil lab but my thing is these are the ones that are actually once a year
um it's the what is it it's the napt which is the um basically the organization that governs soil
testing uh but it's the performance assessment programs the ap program you can google it online
napt and you can pull it up yeah but there's a list and it basically goes through and once a
year these labs are required to so the any the group the napt they send them a basically a sample
that they know the results of and then they double check it you send them back and if it's yeah it's
accurate yeah we calibrated them they're good but if they don't do that there's no way of telling
whether or not this lab is just you know what are the testing methods what is their protocols do
they use you know this form of testing versus that form of testing and and that's really a big issue
another problem too is when you get your soil test back and your tissue test back there is no
standardization of recommendation there's a standardization of what they say your products
are so they have to tell you what your your count is on your your ppm's nitrogen ppm's of phosphorus
your different aminos but that high medium low recommendation that's variable there's no standard
for that so what you should do is sometimes it's accurate but you should still double check it with
extension you know extension data extension recommendations for crops in your area and
because let's say a can a company tests your product and says oh it's low on calcium or it's
adequate calcium but we recommend you need to go very very high calcium you're on this low it's
very very low double check that yeah because they might have ulterior motives they might be
calcium don't trust the salesman and know what your products do buy ingredients not water
yes or just cranberry juice with a little yucca extract exactly yeah there's a lot of that a little
bit of sugar a little bit of yucca you know call it good and that was something that i feel like
we got ripped off for years you know even some of those brands still exist today 100 that's one of
the reasons why we're you know committed to doing this show is because i feel like the more that we
can minimize the newer growers uh learning curve if we can educate them enough where they can make
sound decisions as they're walking around these expos same thing with the seeds i feel like that's
another one of those biggest things so once you figure out the nutrient companies are kind of
they are what they are i feel like then you start to learn that it's even worse with some of the
seed breeders and you're trying to find solid genetics especially at the commercial level i've
i've even been burned by some of the you know well nine known guys out there because they're just not
doing the homework that they claim they are and so again that comes back to uh you know finding
those good genetics and then i feel like using your your product uh the full power when i would
find those genetics that i really wanted to make sure would pop for me uh that might have been
probably overspent to get uh i was using your products to kind of give me that insurance
absolutely it works great as a seed treatment too for when you're popping seeds um that's just
the same the stimulation effect um yeah no that's hey i had a question full power go ahead
and this is our co-host can you guys hear me yeah absolutely so you said you said you make
a micro iv now yes sir yeah they make a van or it's a plan to my manufacturing
oh that's manufacturing independence oregon where are you where are you manufacturing
are you talking about the glomulus or is it your is it your company
yeah so the van is our product it's a blend of my carriages that we get
okay so you're not growing them out no we're not but we work with a company that grows them out
is it in vivo or in vitro that's uh it's in vivo so it's growing on plant root
all right now you're talking about where's it and so and me and me and josh we are
more late now there's a reason why he's the co-host yeah i would like questions like that
oh yeah um but so so just to put it all out there me and um um me and josh we're both just
technical services so we do rates we do application we are not the science side of it um if we if you
want to get into that we can connect how's bob doing bob he's doing good i know bob well
yeah i know he just bought a new plane really yeah he's having a good old time and i think
and things with bioag are really starting to take off in the the commercial agriculture arena as
well and so he's really busy i mean he's actually working on some new stuff right now yeah we'll
have some new products coming up for the first time in a very long time here over the next year
and we'll be excited to show those to you guys yeah i'll definitely reach out to him and say hi
it's been a while i was worried you know his health was not doing so well the last time i
talked to him so that's really good news yeah no he's he's got stuff but he's he's getting through
it and life's good he's now taking more focus from the production side he's moved away from
production it's now all r&d and you know trying to see what the next big thing is i'm trying to
stay with bio-stimulants and keep moving on the right track are you able to kind of tease out
oh yeah we got an organic uh silica that's going to be coming out soon
and it's a fortified with fulvic acid it's called bio supercell bio supercell oh yeah
all right you heard it first and we're also going to be releasing a line of um amino acid
so we're going to have your 14-0-0 amino we'll have one fortified with calcium we'll have one
fortified with micronutrients and these will be basically chelated um certified organic
micronutrients so they'll be available certified organic solute yeah so you'll have a more single
ingredient more inputs to solve more problems with your organic garden nitrogen to keep them green
calcium to keep them happy micronutrients to prevent a division and we actually we thought
that we was only going to be able to be because we're still going through the r&d stage of it but
we thought it was only going to be because it's this amino acid product yet put it in the solution
we were like it's not going to work in hydroponics it's going to be a soil it's going to be an
agricultural product it works in hydroponics absolutely that kind of was very surprising so
we are trying to get products you could develop an organic hydroponic system
it sounds like you're also kind of going towards a another brand that i was using they were called
raw mpk industries similar to what they're doing but our stuff is uh completely organic i'm not
saying they're apples to apples i'm just saying that they were breaking it down where you kind
of like how you guys know where i need to add just one amendment yeah i can get that and that's
like and it's an ad you get the both things not just cannabis but an ad you get the both things
where guys are like no i really want to spend the time and figure out make my own blends and make my
own materials and some guys like well it's easier just to take the you know the wreck from the your
retailer your agronomist or whatever so and a lot of guys are getting their stuff tested today
with saponin tests and if you have a deficiency in nitrogen or phosphorus or micronutrients
okay now what do i do right you know if you're there layton layton's big on sap tests oh yeah we
we uh had dinner with brandon russ i don't know if you're familiar with them a well-known farmer
here in oklahoma and he's i think he does that like twice a month yeah he's yeah you know the
constant yeah i know guys i know hazelnut growers that sap test every week wow and they they dose
their micronutrient both through drip and through foliar based on what that sap analysis is that
yeah yeah i've got uh friends that are uh they're saltless hash producers and uh they got to do it
twice a week you know to get their raised beds to perform up to par you know but as soon as you're
doing that you get on that schedule you get it clicking you can get you know more than a gram
per watt easily you know all that old myth about oh you're doing organics you're not going to get
any free yield that's nothing but crap yeah once it's come alive and thriving that's really the
main thing all about making you feed the soil the soil feeds the plants you know you just got to take
care of the soil kind of understand uh what you're building from a to z because i see a lot of people
that you mentioned that ferrari analysis where you know they bring in let's say they bring in that
high-end uh consultant they're building up these raised beds for them uh then they kind of get rid
of that high-end consultant try to get the lower paid person to do that and they don't know how to
drive a stick and so you start to see compaction you start to see all the great things that come
with living so it'll actually start to become a nuisance and hindrance to farming correctly you
know yeah and uh you know one day they over water too much or the blue mats go crazy and all the
worms are on the floor instead of being in the dirt yeah and it's just a mess and what do you do
then you know you're sweeping up worms and putting them back in your dirt not fun right you know but
it's just about uh you know organics can be done very simply and very high quality it's just you
know following the rules from the get-go and not making excuses you know if something's wrong fix
if it's not going to work it ain't going to work well said well uh again let's uh let everybody
know how we can uh find you guys and uh where you're headed are you guys going to do any more
shows this year as well yeah i believe we're planning on doing a couple more shows this year
okay cool we'll do both i know we're going to be we'll be at far west which is a big
horticultural show out of park lane we're looking at colt the big and uh i think we're looking at
ohio like one of the chicago shows i believe there's a lot of people that have their eye on
ohio how much time do we got oh okay i did want to address before we finish up just kind of the
testing of humic and fulvic acid oh yes yes in the labeling so so the h the h or the basically
humic acid society of america they have a test method called the lamar test method that's been
approved for fulvic acid and that's one of those things that is state by state so some states
recognize the lamar test method in some states i don't and they take the cdfa method which is
they're not able to so basically the lamar method what it is is they extract the
the fulvic acid they and this is this is all kind of just running through not in the layman's terms
yeah yes but basically so they extract the fulvic acid from the solution they then dry it they do a
i think it's a it's a color analysis and then they weigh it and and that works really well
for fulvic acids if they're clean fulvic acids but the problem with the lamar test is certain
things can throw it off so we worked with dr rich lamar it was sulfur wasn't it so sulfate and sulfur
can throw off your lamar test so it can actually show that you have a higher fulvic acid content
than you actually do actually in the product other things like barley malt extract can be used
to also do that so you need to be pretty aware that even though sometimes they say they have a
high fulvic acid content take it with a grain of salt let's say example uh you see uh stuff on the
on the shelf it's black uh it says it's like two and a half percent fulvic it's got all this
different stuff in there you know it isn't uh you know chances are it even you know if it's black it
is not fulvic acid you know just period you know and trying to take a product like that that's got
a dozen different products in it different aminos and different things are trying to compare it to
fulvic acid is comparing apples to avocados right it just doesn't work if you were to take the fulvic
acid out of that product and compare it to bioag it's not it's going to fall flat on its face
you know but the big thing that fulvic acid our fulvic acid has over that is the cleanliness
the lack of heavy metals the lack of capital the low sodium content you know and the fact you can
use it with almost any if not every fertilizer out there that's going to do nothing but help you know
and we got this uh yeah i don't know if you can get a zoom in on our cameras don't zoom in
i'll let you do it he knows his stuff there we go and that is the chart that tells you
whether it's going to be real humic or fulvic acid or whether it's just you know black garbage
there it is yeah that's the so the color metric spectrum that goes from fulvic acid
to humic acid to your human which are your three sort of kinds of humic substances
and so so fulvic is the smallest one that's the one that's the most biologically active
the best chelator another misnomer too is that just because it says fulvic and humic acid on
the bottle does not make it organic yeah you know our stuff is it's armory listed if it doesn't have
that armory list look into that ingredients why is it not and then so changing subjects i know
you guys like to talk about seed yeah okay so i um so i do seed testing um and i'm finishing up my
master's right now and i'm in the seed lab and we do basically i'm looking at the effects of
humic and fulvic acid on seed germination but one thing that i think is missing with the cannabis
guys especially with the hemp guys and i see this a lot in oregon because we have a large
amount of hemp growers a large amount of hemp seed production as well is that you really need
to do your own seed testing and i think so if you're if you're a large grower if you're buying
thousands of seeds you're buying hundreds of acres worth of hemp seed take out a hundred seed and do
a tetrazoleum test before you put them in the ground because that will so basically what a
tetrazoleum test does and i have um and we can i don't know if we can post this on the website
later or whatnot but basically what it is is it's a way that you can test your own seed
with a microscope with just a simple razor blade this one chemical it's a solution it's
tetrazoleum solution there's like three chemicals in it but it basically it stains your seed and
just by looking at them a day later you can tell which seeds are viable and which seeds are dead
wow what your actual your seed viability count will be so let's say you you order from a hemp
seed company say i want you know 10 000 seeds of this variety right i want blue squeak or whatever
and and you get it and they're like oh yeah we have an 85 you know germination rate we have a
uh 92 seed viability rate you can check this in your garage you can check this from the kitchen
so don't take their word on it do your own seed testing do your own analysis do germination
studies pop your own seeds do your counts really dial in that stuff because i feel i've had hemp
guys get back to me like oh yeah the guy said it was going to be all feminized and turned out to
be 80 male and we only had 30 germ and it's like we lost hundreds of thousands of dollars on this
crop and these are commercially you know guys that were switching from hops into hemp and they're
like well i'm used to trusting the hop guys they say they're german or hops isn't a seat so that
doesn't make sense but so like uh ryegrass guy or fescue guy their seeds are certified um and so
basically they guarantee a certain percentage of germination they test it out through a seed lab
it's required before sale that hasn't fully been developed with all these different hemp seed
companies oregon is pretty starting to regulate it or starting to regulate it more but the issue
is i think there's a lot of guys are just out there swinging seeds and no one knows if they're
any good yeah and and that's something so it's called a tetrazole um seed test and you can also
do it and through visual analysis you can also look at seed figure from the seed so you don't
have to grow them you don't have to pop you don't do any of that just get you know 100 seeds slice
them in half stain or soak them in water for a day stain them a day later come back count them
i definitely feel like that was a gold nugget for the viewers especially if you're trying to get into
transitioning from being a basement tent farmer uh trying to get yourself into a commercial
farm that's an easy easy way to be able to check certain breeders yeah and then the same thing is
it's like this is well documented across all crops and they have it for cannabis the um internet or
the what is it's the it's the i think it's the international society of seed testing issa or
international seed scientists one of them sets a standard and so it's it's all public knowledge
you can find it online how to do seed vigor tests how to do tetrazole testing to their standard and
it basically yeah it would save you a lot of grief on the on the back side yeah absolutely and that's
a you know another thing like you know you're given a position a lot of us you know you're
in a commercial setting you're the quarterback if you will um and then when the seeds don't come up
to par it's like you know you're flowing it throwing a deflate ball or something like that
yeah it's not your fault but at the same time you know you're the quarterback so it is your fault
you can have all the good soil in the world and the best fulvic acid if you don't have a good plant
you don't have anything right and i feel like a lot of us um when we were we we were so focused
that especially you know five years ago we were focused on price uh that we didn't really
understand on the back end hey a couple months from now you're gonna be pissed off uh yeah flowering
yeah absolutely and go go with reputable people yeah people you can try if they sketch you out
don't buy from them you know if you can't there's a lot of that yeah if you know they're tried and
true paying that little bit extra is going to pay for itself tenfold when you don't have
you know 40 of your crop herm out on you exactly like that all right uh you guys have anything else
to add any any other uh interesting ideas related to seeds you've come across in your
research and study of seeds um there's a lot of junk hemp seed out in the state of oregon
that's what i've discovered i got a neat trick when it comes to popping uh cannabis seeds what
i do is i take uh full power and i mix it up at a normal foliar spray regimen and i spray my seeds
with it then i take a table a teaspoon of bam and i sprinkle it over the top of it and i roll it
over you know so those seeds are rolled in uh basically uh my garage at that point so when
they pop it instantly hits it as it comes out no matter whether you're putting it in paper or paper
towel or you're popping it in a medium you know and it seems to have a much larger effect than
just throwing the mycorrhizae in a hole and hoping that the root hits it when you're done because
you know after it's been wet for a while there's no guarantee that that micro is going to contact
that root when it pops out but if you coat the seeds that way it does you know and you've got
the fulvic acid to make it stick and you know the fulvic acid is going to do nothing but help
because you want that bam the mycorrhizal on the root it needs to physically touch it so it's you
can drench it it's not going to be as good as putting it directly on your either transplants
or on the seed like yeah i'm just talking about you know and and even soaking your seeds for you
know an hour or two before you plant them in a fulvic solution can make a dramatic difference
especially when you're popping large amounts of seeds you know the more seeds you're popping the
more those little things are going to make a difference in how you many you get and the
quality you get once they pop you know you always get a couple mutants in there but you know you
know if you can prevent that or lower that by doing a couple little things it's always going
to help you know especially if you're popping two three four hundred seeds and god knows how much
they cost you in this industry these days right especially if you're going after that hype train
exactly you know some hype genetics on 200 you know you're talking hundreds of thousands of
dollars potentially yeah and then and also just just everyone knows this is all all this kind of
stuff is all available on our website dubioag.com yeah you uh you know dr faust has been a legend i
feel like they're pumping out information oh yeah i i found faust just from youtube and that's how i
kind of so i i was in the agricultural scene and i learned about fulvic acid through that and i was
doing research on fulvics and humics led me right to faust and i was like well he's in oregon i'm in
oregon i'm gonna go meet him and went started talking to dr faust talked about ag for a long
time and i was like man this is the train i want to be on is the bioag train because you know
where we are now is awesome but what we're basically it's just it's staying true to our
core values and staying true to our products knowing what our market is knowing how to use
our products it's it's a research company we're not a product company we are an r&d company and
that's you know that's what's going to lead the game and bring the future for cannabis and for
agriculture yeah the way i got connected with bob is he was my customer i used to run the indoor
garden center in salem oregon okay and uh i had ordered a whole bunch of fulvic acid from an
unnamed company from canada and it showed up and it had a bunch of floating stuff in it and then
the department bag came in my store and said that label's wrong you can't sell that and uh you can't
send stuff back to canada so i got stuck and that happened right when bob was coming in to buy a
couple things and i was complaining about it and said i sell fulvic acid i got in 55 gallon drums
i was like let's throw in some quarts and start selling it that was in 2006 and selling it ever
since wow man you're no g for sure oh yeah that's another thing too or he was the first guy selling
it to the cannabis world before that it was all that it was just ag you know bob would use it
himself but you know i was the first guy to bring it out there and show it you know and it works for
everything you know back then i was saved a lot of my growth man i appreciate you i'm glad i can
plants you know cannabis and other things it's if fulvic works on plants it works on plants well
it was the best thing i could sell in my store because i could sell anybody any one of these
products it's always going to help and it's never going to hurt always doesn't matter the garden
doesn't matter the garden and then um with that too when you mentioned labeling that's one thing
too for the growers at home even though it's being sold in your hydra store double check that it's
labeled in your state yeah i'll be applying products that are unregistered and unlabeled
because if they're unregistered and unlabeled there's no scrutiny there's no required there's
no you do not know what it is unless they prove it to the state and that's the thing is by going
it is a pain in the butt to go through the labeling process but by doing that you guarantee that what
your product is what it is and it's your if you're not willing to do that there's a reason for it
you're held up to heavy metal testing through afco you're held up to you know for pesticides
but like we're not in that industry we're in fertilizer but but our our stuff when it's
tested for pesticides tests extremely low whereas if you go to some other places uh other products
they're going to test very high on some of that stuff because their sources are quite dubious yeah
okay and so and with that with the heavy metal testing the main things you want to look out for
aluminum cadmium anything that's super toxic um everything if it's a heavy metal don't use it but
like those are the main ones that we keep hearing time after time the growers coming back with other
things or having issues with their testing it's like oh we had high aluminum or we had high
cadmium or we had high arsenic and it's like well you're getting that through your products there's
no other way that's getting in there except for what you're putting on the soil so make sure you
know what you're putting on your plants exactly you know if you're you could be using you know
our fulvic acid if you're using a very cheap organic fertilizer let's say cheap chicken manure
and it's loaded with arsenic and cadmium it's gonna do you no good it's just gonna do you no
good you're much better off getting a you know spending the money and getting a high quality
work on well i appreciate you guys having on the show and anytime man i would love to have you guys
come back on like on a thursday where we have uh you know we'd love to once we get back yeah what
i told i told layton uh who apologizes for his crappy phone reception that we need to get bob on
soon so the bioag team watching at world headquarters is watching if the powers that
be can make that happen that would be amazing oh yeah i'll talk to bob about that next week
excellent well we appreciate it all right guys yeah appreciate it been fun
nice to meet you hey anytime man
i grabbed i thought every guest has to uh crouch down behind the dab bar with you
i don't think he dabbed there's only so many of the dab well that's what you tell us is happening
back there all right we got our got our buddy james here
how's it going what's happening peter how are you
all right so uh this is a really good friend of mine this is james he's the
owner of red dirt rays here in oklahoma a fantastic individual he's been looking out
for our entire team while we're here and one of the reasons i wanted to give him a shout out is
because he really understands uh what it's going to take to get himself to the next level he's been
growing synthetic cannabis he's growing quality synthetic cannabis uh just got co-signed a little
bit earlier from carter carter creek they're uh saying that this was a certified nine pound hammer
so you know he's putting out quality genetics but the next thing that he wants to do is take that to
the next level so james is going uh through his own research also because of our show on thursdays
he's been able to understand more about uh the long ball play of why living soil is so important
so that's really i feel like you know the transition that's something i want to show
later on as we progress on living on our future cannabis project on thursdays is to kind of show
his transition from that synthetic into the living soil world so james i kind of want to give you uh
your platform sir but uh you know i admire the fact that you understand that you're at a certain
point in your growing career and you want to take it to the next level yes sir out of our league i
i'm really humbled by uh living soil um and i've approached it slowly and
um tried to learn as much as we can as fast as we can but uh there's a lot to learn and uh making
that transition is something that we want to do one time and so this is uh you know something that
really is sticking out i feel like when i've been passing around is that pink gorilla can you kind
of go through those genetics why you chose to run that um and you know the old heads that are here
at canna con have been uh praising this uh so that's something that i definitely wanted to talk
to you about man i've gotten uh lucky several times uh shout out to uh the real felipe morris
um those guys have been friends of mine for a long time and uh they actually gifted us that cut
um and she's she's pretty awesome uh funky i believe if i'm if i'm not wrong uh wrong
that is a pink 2.0 crossed with gorilla glue four from uh mosca negra shout out to them
um we've been happy with it we ran two finos of it that they sent over one did better than the other
um and yeah that's that's what you have there uh but other than that we've only got to run it once
so we're we're still experimenting with her a little bit i would say from the feedback that
you're getting she's definitely a keeper at least one to keep researching on i've i've really liked
the turf profile the bud structure there's a lot of color there now you're taking your
growth to the next level you're cultivating indoors but you know as we speak you're you're
starting to expand red dirt rates can we kind of talk about that more and why you're choosing
to go that route why you're choosing to go with the living soil as your you know as your guidestone
we uh we are expanding we've got a greenhouse coming um shout out to focus farms
uh those guys uh are doing the greenhouse for us and uh we're expecting that probably within the
next month we'll be messing with it uh the indoor facility we've added on to as well
and uh you know trying to go with living soil uh being regenerative
uh uh the money of course that that makes sense right that's a huge part of it uh i've heard
layton say several times uh if guys are paying attention to their pocketbooks uh living soil
would make sense to them and uh yeah that's great but uh i've always loved nature and um
you really can't we can replicate it but we can't beat it we can't uh necessarily even duplicate it
i don't think uh we can try and um then the quality of the product i mean the the end game
this stuff is phenomenal our our flower we're really proud of uh my younger brother and i are
are the two in the garden most of the time uh nate is killing it right now
um and uh then it's my wife we really haven't haven't mentioned that a whole lot but
the three of us are are all we have we have a small team well that's what we really like about
that is because you're showing that a family farm can be done you guys have started to make a little
money for yourself putting that all that back into your farm to continue to expand and then you're
thinking long term you're thinking more of like a chess chess move uh what is going to be able to
continue to make myself uh my brand be able to stand out and that's something that i feel like
james really understands and he was telling me you know before we even started to work on a lot
of things together and collaborate on things together uh that the show our thursday show is
one of the main reasons why he's chosen to take his farm to the next level is because of all the
different guests that we've had on there where you know you can see for yourself that there are
people making real changes a shout out to all the people that we've had on the show beforehand
because you know each week you're going to be able to see from a different mind you know a different
way to cook things different way to set things up but at the end of the day the the main theme that
a lot of us are talking about is that we're using the microbial world to cultivate our cannabis
and when we are doing that we don't necessarily have to be the smartest phd in the room to be
able to cultivate the cannabis at the higher level because we're using that microbial world
to break down that organic matter into carbon carbon is the currency if you will of the soil
food web so the more money that we have the more exchanges that are going on the faster that uh
soil system is going to build and like our friends from bioag that just mentioned you know once that's
alive and thriving things are pretty easy to manage now we aren't really a farmer anymore
we've kind of moved more into managing things and that's something that james understands because
it is a family-owned farm uh if he's moving to a living soil system he's going to be able to have
less and less labor uh intensive things where he can focus uh his love and passion is phenol hunting
and that's something that i know he wants to get into and when you're using a living soil
soil system you're going to be able to have that full genetic profile
to be able to hunt those seeds on yeah uh now we can't wait um you know the uh the living soil
thing for us uh of course not being a part of the problem um but yeah back to the quality and uh
less man hours if it's making dollars it makes sense
but now we're uh we're a big fan of the show and you guys did have a huge influence on the decision
to go uh all organic go go living soil um and we're approaching it slowly like i said but
enjoying every minute of it enjoying every day and if you don't like oklahoma yet i mean i don't know
uh what else uh what else what else to show you what else to uh expose you to but the cannabis
industry here is booming you definitely exposed us last night we we found out that you're able to
sit on a patio you're able to open carry you're able to smoke cannabis in one hand and have a
drink in the other and that was 100 percent legal so oklahoma is definitely uh more wide open than
other states uh the fact that there's not a plant count uh that that is mandatory here it's an
unlimited plant count uh allows again for us to be able to pheno hunt and some of these bigger brands
uh you know i feel like that's why you see jinx proof and a lot of these other breeders rocky
some of those people that are going out of their way to come to these events so they can give out
quality genetics because there are a few booths around here that i can assure you are just bunk
genetics booth genetics and i hope that you guys don't purchase that me neither no we've been lucky
there and we've had a good guidance uh shout out to rocky uh shout out to jinx proof our nine pound
hammer uh man we love love growing her uh and the patients do as well we we have a lot of repeat
business because of that one single plant one single pheno but uh we're we're anxious to get
into even more uh we just uh hunted strawberry pie uh which is bloom uh shout out to ok craft
organics he uh uh came on board for a bit brought those seeds hunted that with us uh yeah right here
the nine pound hammer of uh and you've only you've been farming for two years correct commercially
commercially right yes sir and i can assure you that my skill set i was nowhere near where you're
at so you and your brother are putting in the time and the effort to to take it to the next level and
again you're putting where you can really understand photography as well uh just uh
about two years or maybe a year i don't know we've we've tried to uh wear many hats
all right well i'm getting uh some hand signals over here yeah i think we got a royal good coming
on uh we'll have you back on uh tomorrow as well well uh you know the main reason why i wanted to
have james on here is so that more and more of these viewers can see that in real time uh people
are taking the information that they're learning they're drastically in his case drastically
changing the course of his entire farm because he sees the difference in using a living soil system
compared to the synthetics that he's using and he's getting quality uh production the flower out
here is fantastic uh but i just feel like you know for a guy at his level to take it to that next
level uh you know a lot of people are definitely going to be knowing about red dirt rays when he
makes that transition and brian i've been hearing bits of the georgia accent coming out during this
conversation excellent yeah maybe pulls the twang out a little bit i'm gonna take you fishing this
weekend and again he's uh he's been a gracious host he's helping out the entire team come down
here so uh we really appreciate it man because without you buddy it'd be be really expensive to
be able to do all this uh well and and likewise guys uh thanks for everything y'all done for us
peter you as well uh but what you're doing for the community i mean i honestly believe this is
going to leak up enough into the world to change uh conventional agriculture
um people are going to be able to uh eat good nutritionally dense food for uh
uh you know inexpensive uh cost compared to i don't know what we're what we're probably used
to shopping at walmart for right well we only care about themselves but that's the real beauty of
understanding living soil is that once you understand what's actually in those bottled
nutrients you can go and source that for yourself or if you're newer to stuff you know you can use
quality products that are just that product uh there's no fluff to it shout out to bioag we use
uh we use bioag fantastic so we'll have you back again tomorrow james all right a little bit
quicker but we got a royal gold these guys are uh super busy so we're gonna have them jump on here
our uh interlude music
okay is k&f gardener there yet next is
take your time take your time
what's up michael how you doing i'm good how are you i like the beard i want to stroke that
feeling grizzly brian can you brian can you stroke that beard on my behalf
brian took his headphones off he's got to get right now too so
brian's going down under the table again
is this the whole are you also with royal gold this is uh uncle john john piccarilli from cutting
yeah hey how are you doing well doing well i'm just waiting for him to uh
finish with the dab rig down here no i'm kidding
i love it it's an early electric
so we have to speak directly into these microphones to be heard
let me hear you speak indirectly um i favor all government regulations
more regulations i think that's a wrap i think that was what we wanted to talk about today right
so we've covered it uh it's unanimous more regulations so brian i was asking on my behalf
could you uh stroke michael's beard just give it a little little little onesie yeah
it's clean it's good i just i just had to go solid uh wise beard you know you got the salt
pepper look hey thanks very nice i got about halfway there and shaved it off uh i think
yesterday more no two you're looking like uh the the most interesting man in the world
that nice gray fluff here too my my wife and mom don't think so i i look at michael and i think you
know he's got the kalamazoo beard you know he has like that early gibson mandolin guitar kind of
beard that's a huge compliment thank you john yeah i appreciate you look like you would be
playing a gibson you know back in the day i actually just got a 67 gibson hollow body guitar
so that no way strikes yes yeah wow well you've got the beard for it yeah thanks that's why they
gave it to you did you bring it to oklahoma with you you could no way no way you can't travel with
that here are you familiar with john okay cool yeah so uh when i was i can hear you in my headphones
okay cool uh so when i was first learning things obviously you know on the show i talked about jeff
lohenfeld a lot i feel like his book teaming with microbes the aha moment for me when i read that
book i started to see that i would be able to compete with my peers uh if i educated myself
on understanding the soil food web for a lot of that when i would go and listen to jeff speak
he would talk about this man he would talk about how he learned a lot from john so we're excited
to have you on the show today sir and of course royal gold you guys have been around as far as i
can remember at every single expo always uh giving out quality information and that kind of stuff so
we're also excited to have you guys on the show um and we appreciate you guys sponsoring the show
as well you know we're trying to get free information out there for people and traveling
and all that kind of stuff obviously is expensive so we just appreciate the fact that you guys are
willing to you know pump out this free information with us thanks it's a it's a big part of what we
do and i agree big thanks to john for the inspiration through the years because when i
joined the industry he was already a you know a legend and really sharing the information with
people and royal gold as a company really took that ball and ran with it we're like yeah we want
people to be successful with what they do we want to elevate the game that's why we started our
podcast royal grown radio to continue with that same tradition we want to share information for
free we want people to have access to good leaders within the industry to work together to elevate
all of what we do we can all do better when we work together right so john i feel like you're
one of the main uh proponents of going out there and kind of being like hey there's a different
way to do this can you kind of give people your background for the viewers that aren't familiar
well i i don't know you know the statue of limitations
it's something we always talk about because you know i can go way back and it's way beyond the
statue of limitations so i was one of those punk kids that grew up in berkeley and to really satisfy
your girlfriend with the best herb you were buying it on telegraph avenue but then i realized
from buying it that it was actually being grown in mendocino county and that was in 1978 so i
pretty much ran away from home went up to mendocino county and worked for people and learned
how to grow herb and uh you know one of the things i realized was that it's the microbiology that
makes the chemistry available and that's where i started talking to jeff lowenfels and that was
you know many decades later and a lot had happened in between um one of the things that happened was
yeah people used to grow out in meadows but then suddenly the government decided to crack down
during the reagan administration drug wars and they started pushing us back up into the woods
or into the brush and i i just noticed the plants really changing and it wasn't that the fertilization
was really changing it was actually the microbiology that now the plants were in contact with
so i just started looking a lot closer at that and then i built a lab and started breaking things
down in a different way and i could just be talking the whole hour that we're supposed to
be on about that but no you're uh you know you're you've been educating and doing talks and that
kind of stuff since i can remember i mean going around to different expos and that kind of stuff
so what are some of the the gold nuggets if you will that you feel like you could give our audience
from all of those talks that you feel like kind of defines a certain um you know when you when you
give a talk you almost have like this one thing that you're trying to give that audience are
there certain things that really stand out for you that you could give our audience today um
well i guess it's about following your passion mine was growing herb and uh realizing that i
could grow other plants around it because that's what growing in the brush taught me
so growing alyssum attracts beneficial insects and that will cut way back especially in your
greenhouses on on insect problems um you know i created a product called hum tea in 99 and basically
that was uh at first a bacterial tea but then i added fungi and uh and protozoa to it in order to
cycle the nutrients so that's carrying living soil forward from being in the brush to now being
in greenhouses and now being indoors because indoors became something in the early 90s
and uh so using what you have locally a lot of times is good except that there's so many plant
pathogens now that it makes that more difficult so using biological inputs from companies is a
good idea but unfortunately you have to use them more or less in the form of compost teas because
the environmental patent association i mean protection association because they are protecting
have decided that that you need a patent for each organism that goes into each thing that you're
doing which makes it vastly complicated you're asking me to give you golden nuggets well that's
what so laden uh morrison he's the co-host uh usually on thursdays with us and we try to uh
have guests each week where they kind of just give these old nuggets that's kind of what they've been
described by our viewers of like certain little snippets that people can take home with them for
watching today or how about this john while you're while you're thinking about that can you give us
from like the 70s on kind of like a history lesson of like when you first saw people kind of doing
different style grows like i you know and then i saw these guys doing this and that was like in the
late 70s and then like that became a trend and then i saw these guys doing that in the 80s and
yeah um pretty much people dug holes and started throwing in everything they could think of in large
amounts and i looked at that and thought all right why use so much and i got a flower sifter
and a scale and with the scale i can weigh out cups of these different amendments that i was
being told to put into holes and so i backed way off on the fertilizer and then i applied the
fertilizer using a flower sifter so it would spread it out and i kind of did that because
i had to compete with guys that were in their 20s and i was 14 so they would dig down break up holes
break up rock i keep going down and i got the landowner to let me actually
wash off the roots of a plant and i was able to show them that the roots were growing out
not down and it was easier to feed the surface feeder roots than to feed the deep tap root because
back then everybody was using seed there wasn't people might have grown from cuttings but not in
mendocino county i mean it was used in the nursery industry but not necessarily you know in
cannabis cultivation because people were very quiet you didn't broadcast what you were doing
like for me to be here now is incredible you know i look around and i see all these different foods
and people that are entering this industry and maybe they're missing a lot of the history of
the industry and the struggle that the early people had i mean when i came along it was mostly
dropout professors and vietnam vets that were living in the hills trying to create an alternate
alternative community and they smoked herb but the herb was cut off by richard nixon who sprayed
the fields of mexico with paraquat so they were looking at getting clean fresh herb and that meant
growing it yourself there was really no price on it you traded it for things so i kind of came from
that background but you know going back to something that i learned about the plant is
it needed more calcium and less magnesium so that led me to separate these two out and i have
you know biological organic biologically chelated products that you can foliar spray or put in the
soil now that are from that era and what i learned about the plant at that time the um
but you know when you get good at something you know i got to actually meet the hayes brothers
because they were across uh they were across from bell springs road north of uh laytonville
and uh they're no longer with us but they were you know instrumental in me watching a plant breeder
really develop something and they developed the super silver haze uh the greenhouse seeds came
later and collected that problem yeah but you know the super silver haze actually it was silver when
you looked at it in the light because it had so many stalk flangel or trichomes or crystals that
were on the leaves themselves no insect could bite into it no amount of of mold could get on it and
you know that's something a lot of people deal with today because they use too much phosphorus
and that locks up the calcium which helps protect the plant so you know it's been a gradual thing
i guess you know when you do something for 40 years and you get good at it you also try a lot
of new things that lead to disasters and so i guess i'm good because i've had more disasters
that i've recovered from than most people and michael can speak to that too yeah and i love
that you touched on the silver haze and you know some of these influences that personally brought
me as a younger generation i was born in 1979 as you're like entering cultivation so like you know
that's a really just kind of mind-blowing thing for me so thanks for all you've shared with me
and with all of this community i second that like super silver haze was what took my expectation of
what cannabis could be into another level you know that incensey dirty deep smell that like you
walk into a room after someone smokes silver and you're like there's haze here what happened and
like there's not that many genetics that are that unique and you know distinct so i really i love
that you touched on that and a lot of people you know especially nowadays don't really want to grow
the hazes for time time restraints yeah those true hazes are just so long and so we've really seen
that and i john can speak to that more than i can but even since i started growing cannabis in like
the mid to early 90s like 93 94 you see the genetic profile shifting so much nobody's growing
90 day flowering strains anymore like that just doesn't happen i was getting genetics from my
uncles who rest in peace have passed over the last few years and they were you know hoarding
genetics from you know acapulco gold and maui waui and ties said uh mountain organics on the
show last week that as far as i know he has a quality cut of that acapulco fluid see yeah i
want to get with those guys and try that those are the genetics that created the genetics of today
correct yeah yeah and you know this would be a good segue so once we have those genetics and
we're you know working on that we need to build a quality soil system so what defines royal gold
and what what is like kind of making you guys stand out so royal gold emerged as cannabis really
exploded in northern california in the 215 days and there were so many cultivators doing such good
work and we were frustrated by some of the soil products out there being inconsistent not really
being designed for us to grow the way we wanted to grow they weren't really designed to encourage
the biological action that we were looking at i started working with this company because i was
fascinated by cocoa i'd been a grower for 17 years and was like cocoa is the future went and met up
with the folks at royal gold was like oh i know you guys i want to work with you and their whole
goal was to elevate cocoa like all right let's use cocoa as a medium but let's use it as the
organic matter base for soils which no one was really doing at the time it was all peat moss
based soils forest product based soils inferior ingredients less ability to move nutrients not as
clean not as consistent so we took that idea and ran with it we're like what makes these perfect
soils that you're kind of encroaching to at the edge of the field as you start to move into forests
and looking at the components why is this soil better why does it make sense that the plants are
doing better with less light over here on the edge of the forest and well it's the organic matter
there's more organic matter coming from the edge of the forest so there's more microbiology breaking
down that organic matter there's more pieces to break up and provide to the plant so it really
started feeding all these thoughts i learned about jeff lowenfels and elaine ingham through john and
i went and sat with elaine ingham for one of the week-long courses that she does on the soil food
web and it really just opened my eyes to successional planting to the way plant genetics
attune to their environment and evolve based on the microbiology and the organic matter available
to them so you see the grasslands going from all bacterial dominant you start building up
all these cellulose materials still bacterial dominant you start getting scrub all right
you're getting a little more lignin oh you're starting to see fungus grow so and then as you
move up through succession to old growth forests well look how much fungus is existing here because
all of the lignin coming from these more advanced organisms feeding that microbiological profile in
a different way right because bacteria just mow through cellulose and some of those smaller pieces
where they can't do that with a lignin-based fiber and you need fungus to grow onto it start
to break that down release all the potassium and phosphorus and provide pathways for moving
potassium and phosphorus from nutrient solutions or soils to the plant and it really just
blew my mind when you started looking at the evolution of these whole processes and we used
that in our ingredients list we're like okay so we need to provide some green material we want some
alfalfa we need to provide some fats and oils so we're going to use some fish products all right
we want a lignin based we've got that with the cocoa and we're also using aged redwood material
which is a very unique product available only in northern california and it's the highest lignin
forest product available that is actually functional and growing i mean you got cedars
and cypress and things like that but the tannins and other components within it make it relatively
unusable for soil so we started looking at all right we're doing these things already this is
why it's working let's build a platform for other people to bring in these microbiological inoculants
sure there's some microbiology in ours but we wanted to provide more of a blank slate
so people could craft their inoculants and their fertilizer program based on their needs whether
it's a 45 day flower strain or a 90 day flower strain whether they're indoor outdoor greenhouse
beds you need the same components but you treat them a little bit differently in the different
applications so we wanted really to give people the tools to get the best expression out of their
tactics and their cannabis genetics excellent i wanted to kind of bring up something that i
learned i think just a couple days ago the uk is banning peat moss i think in just a year or two
i wanted to get your thoughts both of your thoughts on that especially since you've mentioned
you're kind of going away from them like that first get your thoughts on that well you know
just going back to what michael just mentioned about uh building a soil i started out using
world gold when they first came out because what i discovered is that you can take a
uh saturated amount what i mean by that is a buckner funnel put it under a vacuum
put put the soil into the funnel put distilled water into it and you can see what's readily
available to the plant when you test the liquid that comes out of that so early on i realized
using all these other peat moss based things i wasn't getting the same results as when i was
using something that had a lot of cocoa and a lot of redwood sawdust so i was getting a truer
nutrient profile and with that nutrient profile you can also test the petioles and see what the
plant's taking up out of what the liquid is that you're getting out in the class it's a buckner
scale so it was a lot easier to be able to dial in different fertilizer profiles for different
plants that you want to grow cannabis was one of the ones that i've always grown so it made it a
lot easier to do that then you start adding different bacteria fungi and protozoa and you
can see how that cycles and helps develop the soil because one thing you don't want to do is
throw away the soil this is really addressing your peat moss question because you can't keep just
stripping peat moss out of the ground it's a finite resource and it's a bad use of it to
make it the basis for your entire soil mix and it takes some time also to adjust the pH whereas
coco coir is not is more forgiving and uh it also it does adsorb or have on the surface of it a lot
of magnesium but we have a sole calcium product that can change that right away and you know
that's one of the things i learned from back in the day of growing super silver haze is that
one of the things the plant breeders had in their in their tool chest was the
pH fluctuation that happens in the spring and in the fall after the first rains the reason
super silver haze would come in early is with a big pH shift because uh the hunt ranch backs up into
redwoods and so with the first rain the creek goes from you know 6.5 to 4 and that would that
would trigger the plant that they bred over the course of years because they were doing this for
a long time and uh just like a lot of different plant breeders in northern california i mean it's
a wealth i mean we're standing on the backs of giants and you look at what people have done i
was in columbia just before covid and i'm going back soon and there's people there that have done
the same things and uh you know getting back to talk to them is it's not too hard when i start
telling my stories from northern california back in the day yeah when you get through three days
i kind of think we like to learn the history especially when it's you know
a guy of your caliber kind of led us into that little window and let us know what was really
going on back yeah it was the same thing that's really going on now you've got a lot of passionate
growers and they're they're hungry for knowledge and especially this state yeah yeah but you know
one of the things i noticed about the state is you've got so many people that came from the
outside to come here and they got the chance to grow larger amounts so they're seeing plant
differences in the types of seeds they're sprouting and they're they're actually firsthand
gaining more knowledge they just don't exactly know what that knowledge is and but when you
talk to growers you find out that it's it goes back to the early days where you know i'm from
the school of ziploc bags didn't have a different color when you open them up right that little strip
right there so you really had to have bag appeal there was no marketing there was no branding
the person that grew it either you didn't know that person or that person had the name jones or
something like that that was which wasn't even their name so the herb spoke for itself and the
way it spoke was with its scent so when you open that bag up you know i'm staying this far away
from you or even this far away from michael if it doesn't reach him and cause him to take two steps
forward that's not going to be a sale but he takes it two steps forward and you hold it out
and they pick it up now you're just arguing about price and so that's where that's what i feel our
fertile why our fertilizers are different and our biologicals are different than a lot of other
companies that have come into this game because we evolved inside of this game and that one dynamic
the terpenes became important and now of course we know we have cannabinoid centers in our own
bodies only in the last seven or eight years but back in 82 i started i worked with a lab that
started testing for that and that would be a whole other story but going back to what you want to
bring out in the quality living soil people are going in the right direction we have a whole
organic line that's really not on the shelf right now that we are at this point selling direct and
they're using royal gold soils we've worked we've worked together for i don't even know how long
yeah for as long as i've been a part of royal gold you've been there john and it's been always
centering this conversation around scalability and why like that's the thing that i learned
from john and you know elaine and jeff loewenfels and you know elaine ingham devotees will will
recognize show me the data like i want to know why like this is working that's great why is it working
can i make it work better can i add something else can we experiment in another way again to get the
best expression out of that specific genetic because it's like you said in those early days
in the 90s and you know when people were really promoting top level cannabis at like great
dead shows in the parking lot that was really kind of the crux of spreading the knowledge of
where cannabis was coming from and how people were growing it in a new way and that evolved along with
music but it was always about why why is it better how can we make it better and then it started to
evolve into scalability like okay this works for three lights but when i try it on 30 i can't do
the same why isn't this working and so i think it takes a community of individuals together
to to really put each component under the microscope so to speak and literally and really
understand why and then come back together and share oh man well you weren't doing well because
you didn't have any fungus to move the p and k was all bacterially dominated soil so your nitrogens
were cycling and you're pumping all this nutrient in but it's not moving it's just building up why
isn't it moving oh there's not enough calcium on the surface of that cocoa so the cocoa wants to
hold it you got to get a little more calcium there to let it hold on the surface like john was saying
and to have enough for the plant functionality oh wait now i have too much calcium and not enough
magnesium and just learning those relationships between how the plant differentiates between
nutrients and what's going to block one thing from taking up like too much magnesium interferes with
potassium so those are really things that we're all learning specifically in application to cannabis
and how to bring it to scale to produce acres and acres and acres instead of six plants under a
light in somebody's closet so it's really a cool thing to watch the scalability from within the
industry personally and see the shift to microbiology see john dropping these organic
components that now are doing the same thing that people are used to
a three-part you know salt-based nutrient because they needed that simplicity because they don't
know why everything else is working you got to make it successful right away for people so you
create an easy platform and then help them build on the knowledge i i echo that man because when i
first started i had many failed grows and you know your electric bill's still there they don't care
you know there's a lot of fixed costs that you're putting in you paid the trimmers and
trims and stuff so i feel like uh you know knowing to minimize things having the knowledge so that
you're at least you know almost the a to z when you start to farm and if you're not there yet then
you know buying a quality soil using quality amendments to get you there to be start to be
successful so that you can transition like our buddy james with red dirt you know he's built up
his brand with synthetics but now his forward thinking is to move into the living soil world
he's growing a greenhouse you know he's putting in some serious money and it's all funded by him
that's something else that i really like about a lot of these people in oklahoma it seems like
they have the money to be able to be self-funded where in colorado where i come from everything's
so expensive uh they usually have a board of trustees and all these like hey i would love
to grow these genetics and then they have to vote on when they're going to have a meeting about that
so it seems like if you can streamline a lot of stuff you that might also help you with success
and keep it in-house with a like more of like a family-oriented farm yeah i completely agree with
that um i yeah i go to corporate board meetings now and try to i support the cultivator and help
voice their opinion because it's just them speaking for the plants and that's really what
it's all about it comes back down to the quality of growing those plants and bringing out the
genetic potential of those plants and every you know being down in columbia i'll use that as an
example i went down there they were using all dutch genetics they're using all these different
european fertilizers and i said look i didn't come down here to do this you know you you came
and visited me asked me to come down and look at your farms and i'm just returned as a courtesy
i'm coming down to meet your families and talk to you i set up but i'm i'm not going to do this
and the uh the ag director said well you know we're uh here using dutch genetics because we
don't want we just sign a peace treaty with fart the rebels they're going to be growing uh
the cannabis that we know punta roja santa marta gold all these different ones and we won't be
able to track these in the market and i said you're not going to genetically track these in
the market anyway i came down here to make columbian great again you know because it's
a unique thing i'm old enough to have smoked real columbian smoked out the purple gold and what is
it about cannabis that we have learned i mean look at these the auto flower plant breeders
whoa i mean are you blown away there's there's sour diesel auto flower that's
pretty amazing now and 10 years ago unheard of there's so many dedicated people that just
did it indoors and accelerated that the pattern of breeding that they were able to hybridize so
fast and then they were also able to take it out and do that in full sun now of course some of
these places are in colorado some of these places are in northern california different places in the
country it's the herb is going to come out differently and you know my example is always
craft beer craft beer at one time i was born before craft beer that's how old i am you know
we have to thank fritz maytag for making craft beer happen how did that happen he was embarrassed
as i was as a kid in berkeley and not that he was there but he was in the bay area and he said wow
american beer sucks people come here and make fun of it i'm going to open up the anchor steam brewery
so he bought the old brewery he bought all the equipment was still there they were getting to
destroy it bought the old recipes brought in the old brew the brewmaster's son anyway
and started brewing beer the government said hey you're not involved with one of the five
families that control the brewing industry so therefore you're not going to get a license to
do this and he said he didn't care and they said well you're not going to be able to sell it and
he goes i'm going to give it away to bars so he gave it away everyone that drank it was blown away
at how great it was and then they said well look we're going to have to shut you down and he goes
do you realize who i am and people's they a couple of congress people and their aides were like not
really he's on fritz maytag the sole heir to the maytag fortune and this is in an era when everybody
had a maytag washer dryer refrigerator all this stuff right and they go what does that mean and
he goes i've already consulted a security agency and i'm tracking all the congress people that are
disagreement with me and in two weeks they changed the law and it went from you weren't allowed to
brew beer because brewing beer was illegal to now you could suddenly brew beer and then that's how
anchor steam and once anchor steam opened that doorway up we have craft beer i mean i don't
really know anybody that doesn't drink some form of craft beer and and it's really hitting its
stride right now and much like the cannabis industry is as people start to turn local and
look at why is this better you know and i was a devotee of the anger steam early it turned me
onto beers that then turned me onto like bells brewery and kalamazoo yeah and russian river out
in california and these top level people that again were getting the expressions out of the hops and
that's to me the tie into cannabis they were working with growers that were doing something
different to get the terpenoid expressions out of a plant and then capturing that in a way that
can deliver it to the palate because if you're a cannabis smoker or a beer aficionado we're all
chasing the same thing it's terpene profiles it's that moment of experience when those different
terpenoids dance across your tongue and through your sinuses and just trigger that olfactory that's
the experience sure the thc cbd cannabinol the healing components super super important but for
me it's the terpenes for the live resin people it's the terpenes for the live rosin people it's
the terpenes and that's where it all comes back down why do i like this beer more oh it's because
you actually taste the hops and that's why cannabis is evolving in such a positive way is because
people are getting the best genetic potential by looking into the soil and at the microbes that
what is going to make this plant do its very best well said i feel like you know the more information
that's out there the easier it's going to be for people to finally take the leap and start to grow
in this way because i know for me when i was growing synthetically it's you know you're paying
your bills barely honestly growing mitts uh and then trying to you know change that train if you
will it's kind of hard to get it off the track so that's one of the main reasons why i really wanted
to get this show to where people could understand that living soil is the future if you put your
time and effort into it it's going to pay back tenfold i feel like you're one of the ogs of that
well it's soil building and it's and that's putting your money in the bank that's what banks
originally were rivers brought up fresh silt the parent material was still there the microbiology
shifted through the water came up and you know that's the tigris and euphrates that's the nile
that's that those were the original river banks somehow along the way it got confused to be
currency and money in the bank which not that banks with their board of directors make all the
best decisions about loaning us money for our businesses or where we're going to build or what
we're going to do but my point is that you're with living soils we're able to do that again
and um so i have non-gmo corn and non-gmo soy bioferments that can run through a doser and a
drip system and you can use soils like royal gold and build on those and i can show you how to use
less fertilizer who does that but as a company michael will do the same thing he'll show you
how to expand your farm and use less soil now of course the biology is going to eat it down
you're still going to be buying some soil and some fertilizer but we're just trying to get you to a
point where you're confident you're building success with your system and you've got your
target market because that's the real challenge with a lot of growers in oklahoma is branding
marketing and sales you can grow it but now you have to sell it nobody knows about you
you can have the best weed in the world pretty hard to move it right you got to go around person
to person and sell it and that's your time that's your time that you're not spending in your own
farm or your own garden so it's a complicated balance i love the bank analogies there john that
that really like triggered some things with me like industry-wide we're dealing with soil shortages
because of the peat moss because less peat moss is being mined because it's not sustainable and
governments are starting to crack down on that and regulate those industries and in a positive way i
think you know you have the uk banning that in like two years or whatever do you think the us will
follow suit you know i don't think the us will follow suit because we're not producing the peat
here for the most part there's small amounts of like reed sedge peat and a few places where
sphagnum peat grows but we're not a major producer here in the united states canada on the other half
they're having to look really closely at how they're going to manage that resource for the
future and they're doing a better and better job companies like premier are working to at least
rehabilitate some of those old peat bogs that have been mined down they're not mining them all the
way down to the the bed soil anymore they're leaving something to generate the life back to
bring the ecosystem back so it does build instead of ripping out hundreds of years of accumulation
and leaving it as a different landscape they're putting some sustainability thought back into it
i think that's a really important piece i don't think they're going to continue to allow it to
export in the same way they're not just going to allow this like rampant consumption kind of thing
well and as an industry i think that's the other thing getting back to that bank conversation is we
need to be better about consuming we want to be an industry that contributes more than it consumes
right and that comes down to reusing your soil yeah i want you to replenish it because it's
the better way to use it but you want to reuse because you don't want to just have to ship
everything across the country every time you don't want to have to start from scratch you want to bank
your resources you want to bank your nutrients you don't want to have to supply super high levels of
phosphorus and potassium there's not enough phosphorus available for all the cultivation
that needs to happen for us to produce food we've got to find ways to be more effective
and more efficient in consumption and be a landslide landmark industry that says no we're
contributing more than we're consuming we're going to put things back we're going to resist
against these plastics we're going to resist against over consumption of nutrients and
some of the traditional big ag applications of fertilization that banked on use all this
nitrogen we know half of it's dissipating and going to ammonia and releasing but they want you
to put it on your crop anyway because they're selling it to you and these are the same companies
that are developing crops that can tolerate more nitrogen stress more pesticide stress
more fungicide stress to allow you to poison your resources more and we need to fight against that
at a at an individual and industry level together by learning ways to be more sustainable and work
together use less nutrients but effectively get the best cannabis use the best soil but maybe
use a little less replenish it every time use about a third to a half fresh material instead
of replacing it every single time use enzymes break up that dead matter and get what's in that
root matter back into the nutritional field instead of throwing it away to pile up and
you know dissipate without consumption what do you guys think of alternatives like uh
Layton a co-host here he always talks about pit moss i don't know if you're familiar with that
it's like a newspaper kind of texture right um well you know there's so much less paper now
in our electronic age but you know going back to something michael said about composting
redwood sawdust as opposed to using peat moss that's that you think that could be a real
alternative well that and here here you would do for pine you can do a little bit differently but
you need certain microorganisms to break off the terpenes off of that to make more plants suddenly
but one of the things jeff uh lowenthal has to say about um aroquois where you're growing
blueberries or cranberries or some sort of bog-like plant is that you would the only way to
really get aroquois it's not commercially available is to go into heather bogs or cranberry bogs that
are really productive that were once heather bogs and you take a small amount of that and add that
to whatever you're growing and there is a relationship between cannabis and that because
you know there are certain varieties that were very fog like and that have been bred into what
we commonly call og now so there's a lot of different mycorrhizal companies because of that
but a lot of mycorrhizal fungi including aroquois are available in small sections of
current bogs and i mean tiny amounts of it like a quarter of a cup in tree an acre field and um
that's where peat moss came from originally was bog areas that were that were productive for
berries people saw that and started mining it well they've stripped it down to a layer where
there's no spores that are active so there's no cfu on those spores so it's just too much of a
good thing colony forming units right right not everybody knows the acronyms that's good yeah you
are helping out you brought us you know we talk all the time but you know you brought us both
forefront and you know in front of a camera which this is like my third podcast ever actually well
you actually did it do you remember with john hayes up at the emerald cup
yes he we were sitting on the couch and you walked by and you made a pit stop
do you remember that oh well i was so stoned that i i haven't brought it up i remember it but uh
yeah i just saw john uh a week ago he stopped by cutting edge and we were talking and that
that actually came up and uh yeah you know john is john is someone who every time i talk to him i'm
like like i love where his mind goes and then i'm like all right so we're gonna record you saying
all that and then he just like clams up and i'm like ah just say what you just said when we weren't
rolling i know and he was the one that called me over and i realized oh what you called me over to
do the talking but you know but you can see when you talk to john the expression on his face he
sort of goes slightly blank because he's actually picturing plants going back for like 20 years
certain plants that he's grown and thinking about those seasons and the conditions a real farmer
john is a real farmer i actually got him to go to uh uh mjb or whatever it's called in vegas
mjb is gone i know i hung out with him that's where i met him and we literally spent the entire
conference together and then we've we've been friends ever since yeah i was jonathan keifer who
is uh my northwest sales rep at johnson it's good friends with him and god we both talked
about the coming down because we thought it was so insane where cannabis was going in the corporate
world and we wanted him you know like you gotta see what's happening outside the hill oh yeah he
showed up with a backpack of all his different flavors that he liked it was so funny you know
coming right off the humble hill and being and being at the vegas show which pretty much had
nothing to do with reality they used to ask me to speak at at the shows but in denver it was like my
last show because there were 300 people they were all wearing suits and i had to ask how many of you
are farmers none how many of you have facilities that are that are operating under your guidance
none and then i just said how many of you are are uh hedge fund people and almost all their hands
went up so it was a little ridiculous that i was talking to all these financial people because
that's almost my last consideration and i said look you know look at how you're dressed and look
at how i'm dressed i'm actually a farmer that created a company to be able to get a better break
on all the things that he was using it's funny that's how many so many hydro shop owners really
evolved to they're like man i'm buying so much of this i better just open a store
right that's why i started selling weed in college i was like wait if i just buy in bulk and then sell
to all my friends i make money and smoke for free we're cut from the same cloth yeah we are
i'm a common sense logical kind of guy yeah and that's one of the things i love about this
industry is we're driven by logic a lot of times not all of us but some of us and that's one thing
that john and i have always connected on we're like why don't just look at it linearly it just
makes sense why don't we do things in a more realistic way use less you know get more make
it better let's let's elevate together that's really what i love about what you're doing here
peter and so thanks for having us today i really appreciate it and john i'm glad you came with me
this is a much more entertaining conversation for having you here no offense brian
none taken these are these are fantastic guests um and like i said man uh you know to have uh
jeff loenfels be kind of like uh at least from a book standpoint my og and for him to say that
you're you know one of his mentors it was an honor to have both of you guys on the show well actually
colin bell said he'll stop by tomorrow if uh you guys want to come back and oh call it throw
colin into the mix yes see where that conversation could go but i want to hear one thing you guys
talk all the time so is there something you guys have disagreed on recently that you can share with
everyone that's a good question wow yeah not too much i guess um it's it's shocking because i
disagree with a lot of people a lot of the time um but no john john and i can't think of anything
that we disagreed on maybe some specific lab techniques um we just opened a soil lab in um
northern california that we purchased the dirty business soil lab and brought it in to do our
internal testing are you acquired dirty business we acquired their lab portion they're still doing
and uh pest id and all the sorts of things that they do so well but they wanted to focus on
education and consultation so we took on the lab portion and now it's imperial analytics you can
find it at imperial analytics.com and send soil samples in and get tests and we're talking about
expanding some of our offerings and i was asking john hey i want to do this in this way and talking
to our lab tech and he was like yeah i don't think that's a good idea if you want to analyze
those components in that way you should be using this equipment you should be looking at it from
this perspective and it opened my eyes and while i kind of disagreed at first i became educated and
now i understand he's 100 correct and it'll be a year or two before we make those offerings because
we need to do it right if we're going to go that route and as i said you know i did a lot of data
studying and banking on royal gold cells already using fertilizers i never came out with fertilizers
i have the organic line and it's because it's called you know when you get to science it's
called constructive criticism and you know you've seen this with people that are raiders fans versus
san francisco 49er fans right where you know they go play by play and they they critique everything
and in the end they're both drunk and we're high it's like the chat today has been critiquing
every conversation yeah the chat can sometimes be a little brutal there
it's not today today yeah everybody needs their snickers bar today
but gentlemen we appreciate it and again uh thank you for uh supporting the show man
i really can't thank you enough for me just trying to get the information out there and to
have a couple things that are willing to support that is something that we really really appreciate
thanks for all you do it really makes a difference and again we're a team and you know we're going to
keep elevating check us out on royal grown radio i'm sure we'll come together and do some more
mutual podcasting and bringing it out to the people and i really appreciate you guys giving
us this opportunity absolutely yeah thank you yeah yeah yeah we'll uh we'll definitely have
you guys like i was saying our thursday shows we have at least two three hours uh in the time we'd
love to have both of you guys come on and wrap it up in a talk where we can get dive deeper uh
without time restraints and if you guys want to crouch down behind the dab bar with brian
oh no i'm already we've got to work still yeah see how impressive it is that daguerre and i can dab
all day long but but see you're interviewing people true people are coming up and interviewing
us and i noticed that when i get really high that i tend to not be as descriptive
and give them the answers they needed this might be the one minute that they have my attention i
might spot something that they would need knowledge on or that i actually learn more
people wonder well why don't you charge for consulting it's because i learn more from the
farmers than really they learn from me wow yeah i've never never really thought of it like that
oh yeah i walked into your facility and i point out a number of a number of issues
but by talking to the people you realize what where the human error was or where the thinking
was to do it this way based on what the plant breeders somebody else told them so i learn a
whole series of you know causes and effects from that so that's why i go for free i learn more
from them right well you heard there as well like if you guys need uh this is definitely an og to
learn from i think you do have some uh videos and stuff out there too right um those are usually
police videos i think you've had me in the past so i would not watch those i think you've had like
a talk or two recorded well our one talk when when uh john dragged me onto the couch once with chip
on uh the real dirt and once at heroes of the farm with uh in pat's music studio and shout out pat
yeah pat heroes of the farm a long time ago as he was building that out i said once he has it up and
running we need to uh his band needs to jam live from there so everyone needs to tell pat
remind pat that you promise that
yeah and pat got me talking and you know once again i was pretty stoned and uh who knows what
i said so i never really re-watched those things yeah it's it's kind of hard to especially as things
go on but yeah um you know you're a wealth of information and so we're definitely gonna have
both of you guys back on uh in the future thank you so much yeah thanks yeah hey thank you let me
go grab all the solutions oh i don't want to give you fish hands there we go thank you sir actually
you guys you guys could jam with sam's uh you just say sam soilscape nice yeah next i feel like he
he could come on with uh the two guys who are just on what up y'all what up what up
rasta
oh yeah and someone was talking about why we ignore the chat because we are high as fuck and
the chat goes fast and when people are talking and then you can't exactly remember the question
when we're trying to interview so it's not personal it's just we're really high and
there's a lot going on so there you go oh jesus speaking of being really high
see i was watching you want some of this
that mcp t-shirt looks yo this is the man right here that's the man that
allowed us to get it done that's mr ethernet oh nice we should bring him on
uh he basically works with the venue right uh i think he's an independent contractor
got it yeah
actually you guys can cut to the other camera right to give us a sense of uh the action yeah
yeah give me a minute
all right did you hear me i can all right let's go
back back a house
there's a party outside the booth
down the way so also the the people uh behind the booth when they start talking really loudly
don't feel bad about turning around just being like we're live right now can you guys keep it
down a little bit and then they're gonna be like we don't care no they'll do it they'll uh
they'll be polite like yo come do a dab then dab it out
yeah that is an exciting walkway
kind of boring a lot of white and gray gray gray rugs gray carpet
oh shit bro welcome say hi to everybody
what up is this the man the myth the legend who uh connected the ethernet
oh
hello there we go yeah this is the man that got us going it worked out are you the only person in
the entire venue wearing a mask no really our company just requires us to do it so here i am
see proper ppe that's right they pay me enough so yeah no thanks for hooking up the uh
for everybody watching not everybody gets the ethernet connection right no no we are
two two it's just us and canicon themselves correct nice fcp flexing oh yeah well thank you
sir we appreciate it yeah hell yeah bro hell yeah
yeah it was it was a lot to do this ten thousand dollars for wi-fi
thank god we didn't yeah we do not have that budget
we get our music for free
yeah hey did you send the periodic dudes over
can you hear me i can hear you did you send those guys over me yeah you
wait who was i supposed to send over did you send the periodic guys
oh are they at the booth i don't know yeah they're asking me about an after party i was like
oh yeah no i have no idea oh
so what's up everybody is brian wrangling sam somebody's good
yeah i was hoping they would start up uh so i could go
yo i will say man oklahoma is throwing down out here like i've seen some amazing flower
some amazing concentrates i got drunk smoking joint on the patio
last night how's the was there local beer too they said i could have a gun while i smoke and drink
on the patio how cool is that this place is amazing dude i'm probably gonna move
i don't know
i don't know
all right they're here i'm gonna take one more and i'm out all right
let's promote the after party those guys are throwing the after party this evening
who is we could talk about it a little but i want to get a k and up on there
who's throwing the after party
oh
whoop all right our next guest uh you've definitely seen him before i was talking to a few of my
friends wanting to know if they were going to go to canna con some of them reached back out to me
some of them didn't uh one of the ones that was uh back to me right away was knf gardens a friend
of ours from the show uh one of the people that i feel like um you know his episode really resonated
with our uh community and there's a lot of people that are going back to his work he's uh educating
around the the country with his online um educational platform and that kind of stuff so
here's knf flew in all the way to support canna cons to support future cannabis project
uh and to support us uh here on thursdays glad to be here yeah buddy we uh like i was saying i was
just uh kind of hyping you up there and letting people know that uh you flew out here for us so
we really appreciate that man definitely yeah dude you guys uh first of all your audience is
amazing everybody out there is just showers me with love since the last time and what you guys
got going i always tell you it's beautiful yeah we appreciate that man yeah definitely it's cool
to be here because it's uh i feel the uh the organic takeover that's happening in the scene
because you know you we're we're here around here you see a lot of salts around here but
more and more you hear that organic cultivation being the key always like when you talk about
top flower they're talking about organics absolutely yeah so it's my pleasure to be here
well let's kind of uh for the some of the viewers that might not uh be familiar with your episode
let's kind of go back and talk about uh you know what you're known for and you know the concentrates
and stuff that you're pumping out your instagram phenom you know let's let's kind of break all
that down but uh let's first start out with your cultivation style you know you were really talking
big on using humics and that kind of stuff in that episode we just had bio ag on here just a
couple uh maybe like 30 minutes ago i did see that yeah so let's uh you know that's obviously
something that correlates let's let's dive deeper into that with you definitely it's definitely
dive deeper so my style everybody's confused because the knf moniker so i am come from a
traditional background in organics and i have nailed that with uh jadam and knf principles
which i believe i've cherry picked all the best methods that i think have worked in my garden the
best so everything that i've ever implemented is through trial and error and plant approved
so my style is i'm really huge into humics like you said and i believe if you guys are not out
there using humic acids in your every single watering uh you're doing yourself a disjustice
not a justice it's a it's something that i would never grow without and everybody always
gives me uh crap over it because i'm like you make this you make that but it's that big of a
difference and the key thing is that especially out there you guys are fermenting stuff what you
guys are not realizing is that a lot of this uh humic will unlock the potential of a a fermented
input a hundred percent it's just something that i've noticed that it unlocks in the sense where
you know that you can apply it and know that it's being effective and it's not half half assing it
so to speak you could be effective in your garden so in my garden i like to use high aminos and high
humics with fermented plant juices and i also love to use uh fpjs of plant leaf as well so like you
said i am an educator a lot of people like to give me grief over the fact that they think it's not
true knf inspired but i i i beg to differ i think that as long as you come from a fermented uh plant
extract or you're fermenting or using nature to do the breakdown making the nutrients water
soluble it's knf inspired and that's what i'm i'm here today to you know help with everybody is to
let everybody know that uh if you you can ferment yourself to greatness and that's one of my tags
that i love you know what i mean and it's true guys you will ferment yourself to greatness
and again i mean the theme really today is like okay a lot of people can say whatever they want
to say but let's see the end product and that's something that i feel like uh you know with you
are you posting 30 times a day it seems like you know getting a thousand likes on your photo so a
lot of people are resonating with the quality of the plants that you're putting up there yeah yeah
and it definitely and a lot of people like to say uh uh like i'd say that common miss educator i
believe not come into my garden and uh i'll put my garden up to anybody's garden bar none uh all my
processes are plant approved 100 organic there's nothing that i'm doing that's not sustainable
uh if you look right you can get humics for very very cheap and if three pounds of humics will last
me years absolute years and also uh though i do i am inspired like for instance uh i'm inspired by
drake out in hawaii chris trump big big ups to chris trump he's inspired me immensely it's just
that i found a solution this is how i see it i apply my organics like someone would a salt line
i cut out all the the bowl and i made it simple so that it's simple six to eight uh inputs and
they're applied simply something that you could tell a six-year-old how they'll apply this and
every time you'll get an amazing result and it's just it works through and through every time and
i have over i've taught hundreds of people and every single one of these individuals absolutely
crush with this style it's probiotic farming anything that you could get probiotic or where
you ferment or you get more into just in tune with nature your plants will love you that much more
plants feeding plants it's lovely i love it i love what i do and it seems like you know you're
you're really focused on then taking it to the next level so you're creating that canvas but
you're also the painter onto that canvas so let's kind of get into that so you're you're building
that foundation you're growing healthy plants but the reason why you're growing those healthy
plants is because you want to finish that off into concentrates correct and that's going back
to the uh full spectrum bloom ferment that i make i call that aka hash juice everything that's
applied to it absolutely spits resin and not just any type of resin high quality resin resin that
when extracted it's full spectrum where it's a it's a medicine so people like to say i like to
get high i like to medicate i don't know about you guys but when i partake in any uh ritual of
cannabis use it has to be medicating and if it's not medicating i'm not interested and then these
practices will always derive a medical benefit regardless of wherever they're applied and it's
it's just like exactly where i'm uh going in and painting so to speak my my uh my masterpiece so
to speak on this this is my legacy that i'm so-called leaving and i'm glad that i can simplify
a lot of these uh techniques to individuals because when you get into cultivation of cannabis
it is mind-numbing when it comes to organic practices how much stuff is out there it's just
it's people have told me wow you've simplified it now my brain is not racked i can actually
look at this situation in a more reasonable way where i feel like i'm actually uh a force in my
garden instead of you know they have no idea what's going on they know that it's somewhat
working but it's it's it's harder for to introduce newer people when you're telling them to add eight
amendments and then water only and they're like wow all my plants look like crap you know i mean
it's uh there's a way to go about it i believe the system that i am uh advocating is an absolute
all-in-one killer setup for anybody trying to get into these i'm not saying it's the be-all
one it's something cool to get into that will allow you to have a true foundation so if you did
experiment at least you're experimenting with something that you can stand on so you know
every step of the way where you sit instead of just throwing stuff at your plants well i feel
like you know if you're a real uh student of cannabis especially at the cultivation level the
the higher cultivation level you'd mentioned drake you'd mentioned chris trump you know those are in
as things have progressed those are different camps now right those guys don't even really see
eye to eye on a lot of things but that doesn't necessarily mean that you can't learn from one
side absolutely and learn from the other and sometimes i do feel like it feels like ps you
know playstation versus well absolutely i'm actually getting a little bit of that so i take
from everybody hydro growers uh knf jadam uh no-till growers everything there's something to
learn in every aspect and that's what i've done i just cherry pick that works the best that works
the best that and my plants have told me this it's not me just oh yeah i think that works the
best so exactly right they're they're they're like their own entities correct and it's as you're in
this ocean trying to swim about it it's kind of hard to navigate sometimes and again experience
is what matters i feel like at the end of the day let's let's see what your plants look like and you
are showing that constantly so that's something that i feel like a lot of people can resonate
with it's like well maybe his concepts do sound a little foreign maybe they sound you know what
however you feel about them uh the reality is is that we just again confirmed from bioag just a
you know an hour ago that humics are basically like old compost right ancient compost and then
when we get to fulvics that's just a finer uh old older compost so the reality is is that you're
really just using uh basics and you're you fine-tune that in such a way that you're able to
kind of like dial in what you need add those amendments when uh time comes but at the same
time you are you know again you're farming for the concentrates to keep those terpenes correct
exactly that's the grease factor i like to say and people don't realize is that humics they're
like 70 million plus years old and they have like 70 plus trace minerals in it they have a lot of
silica as well i just so the people that are asking where to get uh cheap humics at um look
towards like i'm like new mexico or canada black earth sells good good stuff um also mark nature
terra vita uh from organic approach too they've got some good stuff as well and uh it's it's easy
guys do some research it's something that i absolutely believe that everybody should be
using if you're not go buy it's got to be humic guys in powdered form go buy some powdered humic
acid at 40 50 start giving it to every watering at like a try a table a teaspoon uh for every
five gallons and tell me that your garden doesn't get better from that that one input that i just
suggested you and if you say otherwise i would say you're lying because i have hundreds of hundreds
of students that beg to differ on that uh you wanted to get in deeper with uh fulvics yeah
definitely so fulvics like you you are right it is a filter from humics so to get a fulvic you have
to filter i believe i like the humics i really don't use a full on fulvic product because i
believe i get more out of the humics than i do a fulvic so on the fulvic side i'm not too versed
in fulvics why humic does contain about three percent fulvic so you do want a humic that
contains fulvic for sure but i don't advocate a hundred percent just a fulvic i believe there's
a key part on that humic side that you are filtering out that's extremely beneficial
okay yeah i haven't uh really kind of heard that you want to go a little bit deeper on why
well for the instant for for the simple fact that uh humic acids restructure everything they touch
and uh since it has that quality more present with it since it's not filtered so i don't ph any of my
water i use city water and i don't ph at all and the only reason why i'm able to do that is because
of my humic use if i did that with fulvic i wouldn't get away with it as easy just for the
fact that the restructuring capabilities that it that it has in the media is a lot stronger when
the humics are more present than just fulvic and it's also you would notice that the the fulvics
are more in a browner side of things and the fulvics are like in a dark uh black they'll come
in like more black consistency so yeah it's uh i actually find it harder to find fulvics it's hard
even me i i can't find full it's very hard to find fulvics it's easier for me to find a humic than it
is a fulvic and you will always have a a good high quality humic acid will have a fulvic content
regardless so you're kind of just you're getting your fulvic there with it well you'd mention
fulvics are brown i've felt like the the real high quality fulvics have always had like this
golden like a tan that's super filtered you're out you're correct about that like a super tan
filtered and i just believe uh i've i've never i've used full fulvics but i never experienced
the absolute power that uh that it should have compared to the humic does but if there is a
purpose for it for sure a lot of people like to i'm gonna say this hopefully for your feed it oh
yeah i never said that right either dude they gave me dude they gave me some from georgia you
gotta blame it on that or whatever yeah exactly like yeah they use it because it is the more
refined so it will apply better in a in a folder aspect but i don't order anything i only use uh
and people give me crap for that too they i had the gentleman tell me that i'm telling people how to
not have proper practices by not foldering stuff and i believe that's not the case have you guys
seen my garden i'm just gonna go back to that you know what i mean i only spray sulfur for
anti-pest qualities i feel like there is a natural oils with the leaf that i don't want to disturb
you know what i mean anytime you spray anything on your leaf you are beating up the stomata to
some degree and i believe there's a there's a given there's a you know a give and take and i
just want to if i'm going to spray just for pests for something that i know that i need to keep my
uh control of i rather have spray that for control of pests than for nutrient nutritional
where they're spraying like weekly every week they're just hitting they're hitting their leaves
and i and i'm gonna say it because people have said i think i have some of the sexiest leaf
on instagram where you definitely have a nice uh sheen to it for not uh spraying anything whatsoever
exactly and i spray sulfur it's powder you would think it would dull the leaf you know what i mean
and not at all it's got a beautiful sheen to it i mean i walk into my rooms and i'm like
damn like i'm just i just want to like uh just go around thank all my plants you know thank you
thank you you're a good day to you you know what i mean i definitely feel like once you understand
some of how these things work a simple way to improve your plants if they are unhealthy and
veg for people that do want to foil or feed is to use a little bit of that full power a little bit
of epsom salts and then a little bit of yucca extract and that'll do wonders for you if you're
in a tent grow or a small basement grow and then you know you can kind of experiment for yourself
if you want to continue down that route uh that mr knf gardens has gone down but obviously at the
end of the day we are looking at what is being produced and what you are producing is next level
and uh again that's why i you know reached out to you because i i love the fact that you would
even come out here you know on your own dime and everything like everybody else well check this out
after the first one your guys audience is so amazing with love they showered me with love
brother so for that i want you know i wanted to come back and pay my respect to your platform to
be honest with you and um if i could give any advice to anybody is uh high amino acid content
in your garden the reason why my garden is the way it is and a lot of people understand is what's
in a lot of bloom boosters too which you're talking about getting that resin production
that i'm getting is the amino acid they'll never tell you that though some companies will but i feed
my amino acids through flour and that's i believe is one of the key reasons why i'm getting the
resin that i am coupled with my full spectrum bloom nutrient and my full spectrum bloom nutrient is
like papaya mango carrots you know like uh apples like i'm just reading the list off the fruits you
know i mean well most people are like what in the hell you know what i mean like my nutrient i don't
even know what's in my bloom nutrient i could tell you exactly what's in my bloom nutrient
and couple if you if you do it in the right ratios and you ferment it you will ferment
yourself to greatness coupled see what people don't understand is humic acids are carriers and
so are amino acids so now that you have this foundation of carriers anytime you add a bloom
nutrient onto these carriers they're able to help facilitate this nutrient uptake to a to next level
you're utilizing very minimal like three milliliters five milliliters per gallon but
your plants are it's it's it's able just to absorb into it effortlessly the plant does not
stress whatsoever our goal as a gardener is to allow genetic expression and how do you do that
you keep stress-free plants and the way to go about that i in my and the way that i go about
it is through humic acid and soybean uh use it relieves it's a net positive instead of a net
negative it gives the plants energy instead of taking you're giving it something that it would
have otherwise have to produce itself it's amino acid production and it will not have to do that
if you're so if you're supplying it which it makes a big difference my plants pray all the time
through flower through veg they're just happy 24 7 because i'm not asking of them anything crazy
i'm actually nurturing them every single step of the way and i use humics and soybeans to get me to
the to that uh that awesome um uh and product exact no dude it's cool when i see uh products
in people's hands one of the coolest thing that i get they always tell me it's so clean i'm like
what the hell are you talking about like isn't medicine supposed to be always clean but i always
get that out of my medicine how clean it is and it opens my mind like wow people are out there uh
faking it till they make it yeah you know what i mean to piggyback on when you had mentioned about
amino acids from my research i also think that you're pulling up more calcium than the other
average farmer by using that amount of amino acids calcium is king in my world i feel like
it should be uh one of the macros on the mpk plus calcium because i feel like as a cannabis farmer
when we're trying to grow that elite cannabis uh we we definitely need a reserve tank like our
buddy joel mentioned at the beginning of today uh building up those reserves especially building up
the reserves of calcium and then using those amino acids to to bring out that full genetic profile
of the uh of the seeds that you're hunting or if you have things dialed in like you now you're just
dude well you see calcium right well humic acid chelates the hell out of calcium 100 percent yeah
like i have no issues it's funny people will send me uh pictures and like hey what's wrong with my
plants first suggestion i tell them go buy some humic and then they'll come back like a couple
weeks later like wow everybody was telling me it was calcium magnesium potassium all this and i
just edit that one suggestion well that's the catalyst right it doesn't necessarily matter
correct it's exactly it's it's present but it what it's not allowing to happen is the absorption of
it and the humic acid will come in there restructure your soil and make sure that everything
plays nice and you get that effect where you're like okay now it can absorb which it is very hungry
for calcium very much so right so i'm gonna paraphrase the chatter in the chat and deliver
it in a more polite form factor for you so basically how do you move in a direction from buying
um you know package humic to maybe producing some of it on site or all of it okay so you're
talking like uh so the only you're talking about humic acid production correct okay so there is a
way to go about it through like worm bins and such but i believe that you can't get in the high
enough concentration to see the benefits that i'm advocating and seeing in my garden you have to get
it in a powdered form that's over 50 to 64 you want to stay anything no higher than that because
you want a fresh water source you don't want it uh acid derived i've only seen a difference i've
used i've researched humic acids for eight plus years more even more than that religiously i've
used a lot of products and if it doesn't come in a powdered format that concentration you're doing
yourself like you might as well just uh throw some water in a bottle and feed it to you it's nothing
it's not it will do something don't get me wrong but it's not going to take it to the to where how
it would if it was in the right ratio at the right dilution rate that i'm speaking of
and i want to remind the audience our goal is to bring you a variety of different ideas so that you
can pick whatever you want especially when we come to these events you hear a speaker of 15 30 minutes
whatever it is and then you can go and research more on that topic we're trying to bring you a
variety of different topics than just the same kind of stuff that you you know we're known for
on thursdays so i want to remind you guys that i mean we're going out of our way to kind of bring
certain things into this and not go too far like monsanto style but i definitely want to uh you
know open the horizon we want to hear from a lot of different people i've learned a ton of things
from synthetic farmers so to just make it like uh if they're not speaking the exact gospel that i
i believe in i'm not going to listen to i i really honestly feel like that is very closed mind
especially if you're a beginner or intermediate cannabis farmer usually the two to three year
mark is where the eagle kind of pops up so if you can kind of bring that shit back down i assure you
you're going to get to the 10 the decades with some of us around here that have been farming for so
long and we've become humble again because we've gone through russet mites or you know if you're
beginning farm spider mites which has killed an entire crop we've lost certain things so uh we
want to learn from everybody uh and i'm a huge proponent of that so if you guys don't resonate
with that i don't know what to say i mean beautifully said yeah the goal is to bring
diversity same way that we're building with our soil systems we're building diversity and the
speakers that we have as well yeah exactly uh i agree with that statement wholeheartedly i believe
i didn't have an open mind i wouldn't come to the conclusions i have if i didn't have that open mind
because it is hard to put down your ego and be like that is a better way of doing it or that is a
efficient way or or what have you and it's um that's why uh it's weird for me to now do this
face-to-face stuff because i'm always just letting my plants do the talking but i've gotten such a
huge interest and i've affected people so positively that i'm like you want to know what
let's i'm down you know i mean yeah let's do this i'm down to educate if you're willing to listen
what comes out of my mouth is absolute facts if you use what i use your garden will absolutely
crush these inputs do not care of your opinions they work simple as that and i have i have a
private discord with hundreds of people using my method that are absolutely crushing people that
are like dude how the like how i wish i would have done this sooner or like i've never had a
crop that finished great and now that i'm using this the first time i'm finishing the line
screaming across the finish line and that right there i don't care i hear all the bad chatter
whatever that that comment alone will do it for me i'm like i'll keep powering i mean look if you
don't want to farm that way that's fine but to open up my viewpoint other people's viewpoints
to start to see that obviously yes uh certain things are important i just uh you know probably
not at the same level that you're at but i'm using uh composting worms to achieve those humans
right and it's just a different way to do stuff you're just on your path found your own little
niche and i admire it exactly and also not everybody could start a worm farm or do such
things as that like mountain organics that dude is like 30 years in the same soil and it's rich
and humus because it's uh this worm population you're absolutely correct there's different ways
to go about it i just this is my style or my twist on it that i decided to share and you're
absolutely right everybody has their way but one of the things we're all after is beautiful resin
medicating beautiful resin and it's awesome to share ideas because how do i know that someone's
going to take a little bit from what i know and then incorporate it you know what i mean
or you know learn a little bit from you learn a bit from somebody else and come up with a whole
new style exactly yes that what has happened to me all the information prior to this has been
percolating and bubbling and people like us and everybody that's you know viewing this we're
coming out of that information and then there's this next new information that's going to take us
into the future you know i mean i just want to be a part of making it a little easier for anybody
coming into the organic scene because it is daunting there's a lot of stuff how to go about
it because there's can it to dom no till then you got like oh i only feed just worm stuff i only do
compost it's just insane oh i amend all my stuff so it's a it's it's cool to have different
perspectives for sure definitely and the real beauty of is there used to be maybe not at that
level so many different varieties but there are a ton of different varieties that we were trying
to learn and it was on the forums so you're trying to read stuff you're trying to maybe
misread a tone or something the way that someone's talking so to be able to have video where you guys
can hear it you know from a guy that's doing it the right way uh producing products uh that people
are after you know however the job gets done uh if it's if you're providing medicine you know you're
cool with me man correct yeah there's a i seen a thing why do i uh put soybean through uh through
flour it's because of the amino acid content i will feed up until like the last two weeks of
course i'm not going to go all the way to the end but i feel like if you guys ain't feeding your uh
amino acid high in a flour you're missing a key element to having stellar stellar uh results when
it comes to just i mean effortless results so yeah the reason why i do it's just it's a natural uh
bud enhancer in my eyes amino acid and you'll notice that a lot of companies will have that
as a secret ingredient amino acids like remo nutrients he actually uh will say publicly
that he has high amino acids in his like flour food sorry brandon was walking by yeah i see that
well we're gonna have brandon come on a little bit later uh with ari and uh kind of do like a nice
little debate yeah brandon's big he brandon understands in our debate segment
yeah definitely no but brandon trichoderma versus mycorrhiza friend or foe friend or we'll take it
all and i will give hats off to ari because uh brandon really knows his shit i know ari knows
his shit too but brandon uh like i said we had dinner with him last night he's just on another
level man i mean just the stuff that he's able to retain uh is is world class yeah definitely i
i think you're talking about brandon correct brandon no brandon is a really cool dude he's uh
he's doing a service to all of us in the community for sure sharing uh his endeavors and canada's
cultivation and he's another gentleman that's come across the powers of the minos yeah he's
his stuff's real simplistic too very simplistic yes it's almost uh like a certain amendment
correct kind of thing correct he's on the he likes to test a lot that's something that i don't i don't
test for the simple fact that i am the test and that's how i feel i feel like i'm gonna i should
be good enough to in my inputs to know that they're gonna work every single time and that's why
i do what i do but yeah dude brandon's an awesome dude i like brandon a lot super cool dude so what
are you are you growing anything right now personally yourself you got like a 10 or anything
set up no so uh i have my boys i have a five-year-old and a six-year-old and um we're about
to move and all this kind of stuff so we have a lot of things going on uh but i've been really for
the last year breeding those isopods in my old grove oh you're killing it with that stuff man so
to be honest with you i feel like it's gonna be more lucrative yeah yeah exactly where i'm at
yeah i need to get some of those isopods i've seen that man you guys got quite a quite a collection
there man what what what arouses the isopods uh how do you maximize their fornication uh potential
tell us the secret uh really it's kind of the same kind of stuff we make sure that they have
enough calcium and then i'm going through and using crab meal to give them that chitin because
they're crustaceans so it kind of seems to really make a beautiful uh exoskeleton for them um and
then the it's the same thing with cannabis really they look at the isopods and if they're the
beautiful color that they are they snatch them up and you would probably laugh peter at the pricing
of some of these things people collect them like pokemon we got a major announcement i guess
you see seems like they're about to go on the major uh loudspeaker
waiting with anticipation
gentlemen
fornication
isopod fornication so uh jim belushi is the guy talking right now
he is uh i believe like the man deserving of all the attention he's gotten for his role
so we don't use the isopods in the cannabis i want to be clear on that we're using those in
the worm bins and then i'm breeding them to sell them to the reptile world i'm not using those
isopods in my living soil bed because you are correct if they overpopulate it's going to be a
nightmare so it's those are really two different things just two things that i'm passionate about
you're breeding them to sell as food for reptiles uh we so we have feeders that we do
breed for that uh so like reptiles lizards that kind of stuff uh we use what are known as dairy
cows and then any high-end isopod is known as a cubaris so all the cubaris species was just
discovered in 2017 so it's kind of like a new nostalgia uh thing for the reptile world
sorry jim belushi is yelling over here
drowning us out here let me get the music going again uh hey i'm gonna go try to get a ginger
larv he's a little camera shy but it'd be badass if he come on are you familiar with him peter hold
on ginger larv ginger larv i don't think redhead
cannabis breeder let me run over there since he's yelling
and i generally agree with uh most of your sentiments i think
how terrible was that sound from that dude over the loudspeaker
oh my god
don't make that yes i think the the general sentiment from the chat is if someone's calling
himself knf that uh a good 99 plus percent of all your inputs should be uh made uh locally on the
property would that be would that make some in the chat less upset are you on are you just standing
there no we're in it you're on oh yeah we're in it to win it
it's tough to come on the show that's no joke
yeah i am so many baloney right now
what was he telling you about the ice box peter
well interestingly if i understood correctly he he's breeding them like you'd breed crickets for
like you'd breed crickets for like your lizards right in one way yeah beat and that and then also
for their frass or no like is he using their frat their poop uh
like in the way you'd use black soldier fly or worm castings
like what what what are the two uses for the isopods one to sell as feeders to lizards and
then compost the com yeah yeah so they're composting for station right so in addition to
are they in with the worms yes okay all together
it's like one big interspecies orgy of fornication
it's a good time though
are you an isopod breeding enthusiast as well my my uh gemma gemma we are rubber ducky
isopods.com i didn't know you were half the bro you gotta have the rock got it got it got it
um yeah no jemma brought a uh bottle of ice she collected a bunch of uh
roly-polies at school yesterday brought them home and into the house and i was like let's
bring them back outside yes the fornication station i like it
do you have any stud male isopods
not yet i uh so there's this youtube thing where it's like a giant sea isopod that you can make
fried rice out of i was telling brian if we just cross breed ones that are just big enough we can
make like little crustacean things and just breed them to eat wait so you're not gonna feed them
to the isopods? no i'm not gonna feed them to the isopods i'm gonna feed them to the isopods
just breed them to eat wait sorry so they're small and in the shape of rice and you could
literally like it'd be like in a imagine it's like a you could grow an isopod this big it'd be like a
crab yeah you you rip open and then it's like meat so if you can breed those to about this big you'd
have like little meat crustaceans running around for you would you be eating that damn right i
would like a crab it's a crab what are we talking crustaceans in the ocean or like isopods there's
land isopods and then there's sea isopods but they're the same so a roly-poly has like a meaty
inside it's like a crab interesting so if you had a big roly-poly it'd be like a lobster
there's sea isopods right that eat all the sharks and alligators that's getting insane it's not a
crab it's like a crab like a crab right not a crab like a crab well what's what's the most
open and isopod it's like ripping open the belly of the crab true or false
true oh wow oh yeah graphic live giant isopod fried rice here girls if you had
why is it pies eaten alligator in the deep sea should we watch some of this together do it do
it brian hates while we're killing what's that brian hates it what watching these videos
watching isopods eat or talking about killing the isopods and eating them he doesn't like that part
well but he's feeding them to lizards that's what he just he just doesn't want to eat them himself
yeah which is like i don't understand that part it's not a crab
by the way are half these half these people on camera reading the comments
while like they're trying to talk it'd be like if you're speaking at a panel in front of a uh
at a conference and like people were heckling you
you see my question no you suck it's all right though what do you feed the isopods
just basically food scraps freeze-dried peas uh leaves
a secret rubber ducky isopod blend of food which is probably that's the proprietary uh the blend
yeah nice we got our own special sauce we feed them but we're the we're the best in denver and
we're trying to be the best in the country so we're getting there what was the word uh or the
name they said earlier scooge or something like that i don't know i wasn't on there someone's
chanting me back back there scooge maybe someone remembers i'm probably totally off with
by the way what time is the exhibit hall open so
you know i really don't know
i didn't look
no it wasn't i don't think it was splooge was it
i think it was scooge which sounds more uh even more like what i would visualize splooge as
we can watch a movie right now let's watch up and spoke cheech and chong
how is that dad are you still are you still smoking the same so by the way all right so
get back to what you were talking about earlier i think it would be interesting tomorrow to get
all your feedback on what you're seeing and smoking in the oklahoma market because you
were like impressed right oh dude they're throwing the fuck down down here that's no joke
but colorado is not exactly known for its flower right well i mean colorado does good but i mean
for oklahoma just being oklahoma like man y'all better they're good down here they're real good
it's tough right he said
basically i would like to start having concerts like this in la
that we stream live that would be enjoyable that's what i got to do every day well we'll
work on it this is great i could almost set up in oklahoma and just i don't know we might do this
this is fun down here i don't know i don't know i don't know i don't know i don't know i don't know
just i don't know we might do this this is fun down here no we should just have well that's the
one that's staying right what that specific uh bar is staying correct tulsa we're coming to tulsa
we're coming
to tulsa
cody's from oklahoma the third world country and i'm a native
well make it better man you gotta make it better
but this is the point is that everybody's coming in because it's the only place you can just do
whatever you want to do i love the dude in the red hat lurking in the background who
pokes his head in to to take a dab and then
as quickly as he came on camera he disappears again that's a professional right there always
checking up on
yeah no oklahoma's popping man these people are they're doing it right and they're very
friendly and they take care of you i have to say i mean you've heard of minnesota nice but i don't
mean you've heard of minnesota nice but i don't know oklahoma's
they're doing it man i'm not disappointed
all right so for a lot of you out there uh you may not know who this dude is but he is a legend
an og and we are extremely grateful to have you on the show sir thanks for having me yeah brother
so uh if you guys have been buying genetics high-end genetics i assure you you have come
through this guy you've uh heard about his network uh in my opinion he's one of the best out there
so we are again honored to have you on the show brother we want to talk to genetics and i would
imagine a lot of people are going to have some questions for you well i appreciate you having
the man and all the kind words and everything and i uh look up to you as a person so i'm glad
dude i really appreciate that yeah all right so uh let's kind of talk about the genetics that
you're working on i know here in oklahoma there's a lot of things that are making a splash especially
with my buddy james that red dirt raised there's just a lot of fantastic genetics that you're
putting out um and let's talk about it yeah um i think my orange flambe is like pretty big out here
yeah absolutely i've done a couple shows out here in oklahoma and everybody has been pretty
uh awesome to me and i put my genetics into a lot of people's hands out here so it seems like the
orange flambe is really took off out here um i made it a few years back and it's starting to take
you know get some traction right now it seems like and so it's really talk about the lineage
real quick yeah so uh it's a ocd m15 from cap which is the orange cookie star dog uh across
to miracle um it carries that the pheno that i found and used carried some gas in it which was
really different than all the other um phenos which were just heavy heavy citrus and uh so it's
ocd m15 across to cherry flambe from green snowman and uh the cherry flambe i hunted
pretty close to 60 seeds to find that male wow yeah yeah i definitely feel like you know you're
not only doing the work putting in the work but you're also representing uh some of the elite
genetics around town so let's kind of dive into that as well i mean you're representing your own
brand but i mean you're known for like mr rolls royce you're walking around with a knapsack
everybody wants to get their hands on yeah i'm very very picky on who i work with and i've
chosen a few guys to like really work with strictly like uh you know in-house genetics
duke diamond uh bloom uh harry free duke diamond yeah free duke diamond poor guy love that guy
but yeah bloom uh night owl uh altitude ranch uh sunleaf nerds um all these guys are guys that
not only put out really good gear but more importantly to me are really good people
um that seems to be something that's been a little bit more difficult to find when i got
into this industry and started working with like the seed and stuff um so yeah i just kind of focus
in more on that and try to help them it's i feel like i'm working for my friends that's how i tell
people it's not really we don't have a business relationship full-blown it's more of a friendship
like when i talk to these guys we're talking about life and talking about other things besides just
hey you know this seed drop whatever so yeah i've just been super picky on who i work with and stuff
and i think it's people recognize that and i think it almost helps in a way because people know it's
built your reputation yeah i don't want to feel like a used car salesman out there just selling
stuff to make money you know with anybody right i want people to actually be happy with what they're
growing and with what they're doing so and what kind of got you into the seed gang because i know
that that's not exactly the easiest thing to do there's a lot of people out there that try to do
that and fail and you've definitely um you know been doing it for a long time uh and doing it well
well thank you i appreciate all of that um what got me into it honestly was uh in-house genetics
um i was just growing a bunch of his stuff man and everything was coming out super stellar
and people would go over and check out my plants and everybody that saw my stuff wanted it and they
don't like most of them were growers so they wanted to grow it so what i was doing was uh
getting some of in-house's stuff from seed banks and like i've bought from every single seed bank
you could possibly think of out there and so what i was doing is i was buying these packs for people
and reselling them um and just one day i had hit up in-house i started testing for him first
and i think that's what built the trust with him knowing that you know he could trust me and uh
just i hit him up one day when i was out in the potato field and i was like hey man like you know
are you looking for another vendor i live in a really rural part of colorado where there you
can't find seeds like i think i could help your brand out and it's something i could stand behind
and he said sure like you know he was like yeah let's do this and so that's what really started
it um that was like the seed you could say of my business per se and then just knowing other people
you know uh mal from malvinetics um she's actually who linked me up with duke uh we all kind of lived
in a similar area of colorado you could say and so just it's kind of gone from there and just
reaching out to some of these guys that i respect and wanted to grow their stuff and you know thought
i could do a good job of like you know just putting them out there getting their genetics
in everybody's hands that was kind of my goal that's definitely what you're doing man and anytime
all right we might have to uh pause on this yeah yeah she talks pretty loud on that thing
yes
what are you smoking on sir what am i smoking on um i think he brought some fantasy melons
some ogkd
jim jones
dude how about this announcer on the radio
jim balushi
yes i think jim loves to hear jim with the microphone in his hand
i'm guessing jim has never passed a microphone he didn't want to get in front of
him that's an interesting painting or was a drawing on the computer
sir peter that is a gemma original she brings me stuff i'm like this is fucking amazing
there we go
do you beatbox too
no just in the car
yeah i was kind of uh so jemma's learning how to play the keyboard right now and i was gonna get a
like this uh it's called a u bass which is just this little like ukulele sized bass and just like
yeah that'd be fun and then have her like playing her favorite katie perry like three chord song and
on the keyboard all right we're back from uh australia we had to go down under for a minute
ride the wave yeah so uh you know again man for a lot of you guys out there uh
you don't do any of this stuff you're just like you're just like you're just like
you know again man for a lot of you guys out there uh you don't do any of this shit man
it took me probably 15 minutes over there just to get them to come over here uh there's just a lot of
a lot of people that admire you because of the fact of the way you carry yourself again with the
genetics that you're selling i have always wanted to ask you it almost seems like you know who's
going to be that next hit reader uh what kind of um allows you to to see that are you on instagram
and you're starting to see people come up almost like a you know if they were a musician you kind
of see them come up with their talent and then you you pounce when it's when it's right and kind
of sign them if you will onto the platform yeah i definitely keep an eye on everything that's going
on instagram's like a great platform to promote your business you know so more than anything i'm
watching which breeders are actually like being grown out and stuff because you see hundreds of
strains being dropped like every week you know literally and so there's only a handful of them
it seems that are like actually being growing out and then people like showing pictures and showing
what it's all about and stuff i don't know and i just feel like i could tell i i don't know how to
explain it but for the most part also just people in the industry talk you know you talk to other
people other breeders other seed banks and they're all giving you information too like because they
know people that i don't and vice versa so you could kind of just put it together i guess in my
opinion like i could tell when somebody's probably going to be getting hot um and that's what it is
like a lot of the breeders get hot and then they cool down and get hot again cool down and some of
them cool down never come back right you know um some of it well deserved right yeah of course man
but uh i don't really i i don't know i just i have a gut feeling i guess you could say about it
you definitely i'm not always right that's for sure right i mean nobody's batting uh you know
10 to 10 kind of thing but you definitely have an eye for it and i would say that it seems like
you're uh ahead of the curve even with a lot of other seed banks i'll see you start to carry
somebody uh a person that i again you know you're at the forefront of is our friend landis thank or
terp fountain genetics right somebody else that you're bringing on can we kind of talk about
you know why you know why is he you look like somebody that you want to bring on to the team
compared to you know there's millions of people out there making seeds right so why is it that
his stuff is is uh standing out to you uh most importantly like i have a couple friends that
are super heavy into like hash and water extraction and stuff and they have both
talked highly of terp fountain before i ever even knew who he was so then that made me get curious
start following him watching stuff um so you are kind of watching almost like a scout like you're
saying like is this guy gonna develop and if he does develop i'm signing yeah so it was really
cool so terp fountain uh he had a mutual friend which is gingerlarf you know so that's how we
started talking who i tried to get on the show but he wouldn't do it just to put it out there
and uh yeah so we hooked up through that guy and like great dude yeah awesome gear everybody has
respect for him yeah he reached out to me and was like yeah man would love to have you carry me yeah
and yeah i'm all for it dude like looks like he has a great freaking product
um he sent me some seeds to grow which i'm growing right now right on and so yeah it was just a
something i saw in him you know what i mean like if like seriously like if my two buddies are talking
about him like that they know what they're doing so it's a good judgment in my opinion yeah and
then you know is your goal to sign so many people per year or it's just when i see no no no no
yeah like because it seems like there's enough talent that pops off year by year that you could
probably sign at least one or two people right and i'm just more in a position where i'm not
necessarily trying to get more people on it's just it's a lot to take care of and like i'm just kind
of trying to stay into my comfort zone you could say and so but that's not to say that like somebody
won't catch my eye and be like oh man like you know i want to grow this guy's stuff or whatever
and see how it is and just go from there and see how it works out because it definitely seems like
that's where the market is going is that you know we're going to be growing for the guys making the
solvent stuff or at least in the living soil world it seems like we're growing the canvas if you will
giving that over to the the hash makers and that kind of stuff and then they're taking that canvas
doing their own little artwork and then showing it off we had a guy here 918 OG um that's well
known at least with the the cowboy cup and that kind of stuff that's known here in oklahoma
and i feel like that's another guy that really understands genetics right that you know when i
met him the first time maybe three years ago and it seemed like he was talking about that when
everybody else was still talking about you know gold and gold and goat and blue dreams and like
all the kind of stuff that you normally hear people peddling around yeah something opens up
dude it's crazy like you know the stuff that gets hot can stay hot for a little bit fade away and
it's always it's hard to keep up with it's uh it's a fad thing now really it's like what becomes
hot on social media people want yeah and it becomes a driving force you know and you seem
like you're pretty good at driving your way through some of that hype and not jumping on trains that
that some people do and you seem like you really you know you're dialed in man i guess the best way
to describe you i just know what i want you know i mean i know what i have in mind and i just stick
to that more than anything i feel like a lot of people trust you with that like if you know you
bring this dude on board a lot of people are now going to uh work with those genetics because you
kind of co-signed it right yeah i appreciate that what's some of the stuff in the future that you're
personally working on or if there's anything you could share from some of the you know bigger name
breeders that they're working on that you're going to be debuting here later in the year or in 2022
uh some of the projects i'm doing right now i'm doing some projects with like uh
harry palms there's gonna be some stuff coming out with that which is i mean i guess yeah fire
you know right yeah and uh we're just having fun with it i hope people like it you know and uh
let's see the i have a lot actually the bebacita project coming on with keno addicts uh um that's
going to be coming up in the next year or so uh other breeder stuff i'm not really too sure on all
of them what they're planning to do but i don't know i kind of have faith and like they're going
to do something good yeah it definitely seems like some breeders were away squirreling the nuts in
2020 uh you know working hard and then some of the other breeders didn't seem like they did too much
so i feel like the ones that were you know putting in the work when it seemed like you could just
kind of relax for a year and get away with it if you wanted to right they're coming to fruition now
with uh with the work that they put in and right it's a lot of bright-minded people uh all over and
there's more and more people that are starting to show their faces and come out here and show
people that it's like you know this is a community and we're happy uh to all be a part of it right
hell yeah man i like what you're doing here this is really cool yeah man i appreciate it and you
know it's weird to be interviewing dudes i've looked up to a long time and gotten seeds from
and you know otherwise it was i'd have to buy a t-shirt and get some uh booth seats uh sent to me
from overseas so you know we've come a long way from we have come a long way what we could uh
pheno hunt right yeah it's been a great thing it's opened up a lot of opportunity for sure well i
promise you it wouldn't be too long i do want to throw it if anybody has questions for him because
this is a pretty rare opportunity um and then if they uh if they don't then i will let you go
brother and i really appreciate your time i know uh yeah yeah appreciate it uh peter if there's uh
if anybody knows questions or anything uh do you personally have news about duke i know a little
bit about it no i haven't heard from him for a bit so he was moved uh to colorado i believe that he
has like another week or something like that and then a lot of us are going to be able to uh
communicate with him again for those that don't know duke diamond's been locked up in basically a
garage with uh between like 20 and sometimes 24 other grown men uh and he's been in there since
maybe a month or two after we all saw each other last time at the indo expo in denver colorado so
if you guys can remember all the hardship that a lot of us went through in 2020 uh you know shout
out to duke diamond because you know that dude's been kind of um locked away but definitely not
forgotten man and uh you know i reach out to him a lot yeah i talked to some of his people a lot
uh and they say that he's doing well there's you know money on his books and taking care of him so
that's really all that we care about otherwise he's just you know doing his time and hopefully
will be out uh the real goal i think will be at the end of this summer yeah i have faith in him
he's going to be good yeah and then again that's another fire uh breeder that could be uh hopefully
you know working on his own there's some uh drama and shit that's happened to him before in the past
too but i think he's i would imagine he has quite the fire lit under him oh yeah he he knows what
he's he knows what he's doing he's gonna do what he does best you know what i mean just come out
i'm sure right and another you know pretty humble dude just doing his thing not really uh
fucking with anybody people you know right people disrespect him he's just in his lane and doing
his thing yeah love dude man such a good guy overall one of the best guys i've known for
in my whole life he's a good dude all right so you want to let anybody know like um where they
can find you and uh all that kind of stuff yeah grams yeah instagram is real rocky mountain high
719 or real rocky mountain high dot 719 instagram just the police shut you down right and that was
yeah yeah so unfortunately that's yeah they got me about a month ago right after the last show here
in oklahoma yeah and then they got my canadian site which well which is with my buddy site he's
my partner but they got his site like literally just this morning so it is a rough game but you're
uh you're one of the ones that is guiding the ship in a quality quality way man so again i
appreciate your time thank you so much i look forward to uh hanging out with you tonight brother
appreciate you thanks thank you
all right we'll be right back
there's brandon
brandon sighting
he's that dude who walks in front of the camera between the camera and the conversation
blood blood blood and fire
that's brandon in the wild yeah we got brandon we just saw brandon uh
got brandon in the world walking by ory somebody could go grab ory i thought i just saw him
do you know where he went long hair dude i went like this dude hurting cats didn't see him
shit
yeah i can't play bob marley because then youtube would shut it down
all right so uh just real quick sorry that took live tv all that but um you guys are uh putting
on the after parties i kind of wanted to give you guys some promotion you know unfortunately i don't
know anything about you but it's fantastic that you guys are going out of your way to provide the
after party for such a cool event today absolutely man we're excited my name is sean markey the
closer i'm the ceo of peridot technologies we are a washington-based company that just opened up
offices here in oklahoma we basically provide e-commerce solution for dispensaries it's a very
educational platform that allows you to customize your entire website before showing your products
to the consumers with that being said i come from a background of promotion and events so i thought
the best way for us to introduce ourselves to this market is to put on a show yeah we know we
teamed up with some great people like james a hodney from fairy child events and dope magazine
and christina handsome man my right hand woman so we put it together relaxed park and working
with cannabon here it's official after party we'll have a bunch of vendors food trucks and massage
tables beer trucks i might need that yeah i know after this whole day right and plus the jim balushi
will actually be performing tonight with a local blues band and so it will be it will be bananas
i'm excited i'm really excited for tonight excellent man i just wanted to throw on here if
you're not familiar with this is the future cannabis project okay this is peter's show we
have a show that's every thursday we're actually going to be able to do today obviously thursday
and tomorrow and our goal really is just to get out living soil education that the fact that you
can farm using the microbial world instead of synthetics i love one of the guys i really
marco he always says bottles are for babies just trying to get away from those nutrients and using
uh again the microbial world so we look forward to uh and by the way thank you yeah for for one
tenth of the marketing budget you spent today we will do some amazing stuff with you in the future
and get you in front of all those dispensaries and brands retailers you hit us up go to on
peridot.com right on absolutely thanks so much i appreciate it we'll see you guys tonight at the
party excellent we'll be covering that on instagram and stuff and we look forward to seeing what you
guys are up to yeah we'll be fine thanks man thank you thank you all right let me go see
brandon and ari and we will get this rocking yeah it's brands like that that i'm absolutely
gonna sell on the idea of if we could have like one tenth of what they spent on jim belushi
and canna con and uh do some fun shit that we'd all have fun at and they'd achieve their marketing
objectives yeah no yeah i do like uh i i everyone goes through periods in their life where like they
binge on certain types of music and for me old school blues was like when i was 16 17
and i used to listen to like everything from robert like charlie patton robert johnson sunhouse like
into like the early you know the 50s chicago electric blues guys to and uh even stuff like uh
old zz top is good it's very bluesy and like better than their the stuff that they're popular for
all right i think everybody's got to do their little ritual and then we'll get going here
dabbing when you're not supposed to be dabbing man in the red hat
it's like where's waldo that's part of the expo ritual
see if you can do it for two days without getting caught
i do man
i love your energy bro you've kept that up for years i love how brandon's trying to be as discreet
as possible it's a good time one of you guys want to sit down yeah oh yeah is that black label
organic all right you guys can you tell them to put their headphones on
all right
oh yeah
tell them to put their headphones on yeah
he's gonna do his dab real quick
i thought
brandon i think you need to to take another mind-numbing dab
and blow more smoke out this time
i guess
i guess
all right check check all right living soil nerds we are in for a treat this is our debate segment
yes yes trichoderma versus mycorrhiza so uh not everybody obviously is going to be familiar with
you guys today so i'd love for you guys to kind of give a background what you guys are doing
uh what you're doing in oklahoma uh brandon obviously you you're killing it out here man
and then ari you're you know since i've known you man you've been traveling the world so it's
exciting to see two other entrepreneurs that have been doing it since i've known you guys
so ari do you want to go first and kind of talk about yourself and the company and then we'll get
into it sure so my name is ari how's it going i think everybody can hear me a little bit closer
there we go okay my name is ari ari singer um i work for dynamical we produce mycorrhizal fungi so
this is our product right over here we just launched our new dynamite stick product also
same stuff but just in a different packaging clever marketing thank you thank you and i really
dig that thank you so it took a very long time from concept to reality and uh yeah we produce
mycorrhizal fungi we produce endo mycorrhizal fungi and uh with dynamical we have uh specific
strains which are uh have been tested for cannabis and have been proven to form symbiotic relationships
with cannabis plants and the results we're seeing are increased yields shorter veg time lots of
different benefits from uh adding dynamical to the soil so that's what we do we're sold in
five countries around the world uh we're manufactured in israel everything's uh produced
in israel that's where all our r&d is done and we sell in canada the u.s chile the uk and in israel
so that's actually just a quick question i feel like a lot of mycorrhizal products they just
white label other stuff are you guys actually growing out your own source material so right
that that feeling of yours is uh is not just a feeling it's a fact uh most comp it's very
difficult to produce mycorrhizal fungi and there aren't a lot of companies in the world that
actually produce it we're one of the few companies in the world that manufactures it ourselves
packages it and then sends it off so all of our strains uh they're proprietary strains that we
have in inside our products we don't white label it we manufacture everything and then ship it over
to wherever it is we're selling it whether it's the u.s or the uk there are several companies that
do manufacture you know their own fungi besides us but the majority of products out there on the
market are coming from specific companies that white label and manufacture for a whole bunch of
companies do you think one day like we do uh i like to call it coffee poo and a morning garden
can we do like a mycorrhizal fungi uh facility tour one day unfortunately we that's that like
like yeah it's time for the coke recipe exactly so we don't we don't have a patent on the way
we manufacture our fungi uh because the moment you you apply for a patent you basically reveal
all your secrets right and so yeah i don't know if you know it but our product is just
way more concentrated than most of the other products on the market so we're at 900 propagules
per gram most of the other products are in the uh low you know double digits sometimes in the
triple digits but nowhere near our concentrations and that's because of the way we manufacture them
so you know there's a sentence that there's a saying that goes i can teach you i can tell you
but i'll have to kill you afterwards so you know that's one of those so no tours unfortunately
got it and by the way if you guys want to feel good about yourselves today don't uh read the chat
two cents it's a tough chat today you know uh if you go into like a biotech company
none of those people are gonna have patents for the reason he just explained and that's why they
don't allow people to go in there and that's why they have non-disclosure agreement between employees
and it's it's a thing man it's a big you know it's business so if you you want to kind of talk
about who you are brandon and talk about you know the kind of things you're working on and he's a
grower for you guys that don't know uh here in oklahoma yeah um if you guys aren't familiar with
jess quickly brandon can you can you uh is that better tell people like you're sucking cock
get right in there so um i think most of the people probably already know me i'm a moderator
on your channel uh under bokashi earthworks my name is brandon rust and uh i'm the owner of
bokashi earthworks i specialize in biological fertilizers and microbial inoculants i've also
been cultivating for 20 years now and i'm out here in oklahoma i'm the cultivation director
for a couple of places i work with a bunch of different farms and i
am co-owner of black label organics you can see our little logo right there on that jar
and yeah i'm an organic farmer so i use biologicals and organic inputs to
to farm high quality cannabis
you can pull a butt out of there if you want yes show it off a little bit
though do it i will that's a good one right there too i can smell that if you could only
smell that through the screen yeah we had uh arley on earlier and when he opened up his concentrate
same thing man if you have a smelly concentrate dude i want to hang out with you yeah yeah we uh
we had a couple of our runs turned into um concentrate and just you know that's like the
heady market out here everybody wants to fucking get some raws and dabs and uh so you know we kind
of played played into that and you know it's good for branding you know uh we just you know kind of
started a good thing with my company although i've been operating out here in oklahoma for almost two
years but yeah oklahoma's great man we're here at the canna con good people i mean i love these
types of events man i get to hang out with people i don't get to see all the time just like if you're
in uh in northern california at the emerald cup you know it's just like the the people that in the
community that kind of make everything how it is man they're here you know these are the people that
are that are getting it and doing the things and so i just like to be a part of it and promote like
the joy and the medicine and you know i always like to share i got pocket hey if you guys see me
out here i got a pocket full of seeds you know like he blessed me last night as well you know
he's not bullshitting i just you know what i mean i'm out here just doing my thing i love it this
is the best i'm stoned as fuck right now too i gotta admit i think i'm like the only sober person
here in the show right now definitely we could change that oh yeah you can change that i don't
think i'll be speaking you know i might be speaking hebrew once that happens that would be
amazing i don't think anyone would mind all right so you guys want to kind of get into the topic
yeah what are we talking about let's uh let's go with trichoderma first sure sure okay so you know
the topic of conversation is you know trichoderma versus mycorrhizal fungi and i and it shouldn't
really i guess be looked at trichoderma versus but actually of like where and when and why
certain species of bacteria should be applied and what would be the the benefit of that so in the
case of trichoderma trichoderma is a very very aggressive fungi and it also has an ability to
sequester iron very uh very well and it makes it very hard for other types of fungi to operate
because it's able to basically eat all of the food that's available right all of the nutrients that
are in the soil that it's feeding off of so it has a great great ability to outcompete pathogens
and it creates and it also creates a secondary metabolite which are called
sidiophores and these are the highest iron affinity uh these are chelating agents in nature
and one of the things about iron is it is one of the main photosynthetic chemicals that's
responsible for photosynthesis so for me iron is a really really important and it's hard to get
in organic systems because of the oxidation and redox of iron because it will the only biological
form of iron is fe2 plus and it oxidizes in the ph range that we're typically growing our cannabis
in and when you're adding water you know it also oxidizes so even if you have like a mineral iron
sulfate it'll often immediately oxidize and become unavailable so iron is a very very
difficult nutrient to always consistently have an adequate uh an adequate amount
so when you have the trichoderma it can help with the up the plant's uptake of iron
and then also the it has some relationships with some bacillus species that also help
facilitate and their reproduction and their ability to interact with the plant and that
particular fungus um you know for me the reason why i don't particularly use a mycorrhizal product
product is because i'm looking at mineral nutrition on like sap and uh saturated paste testing
and i'm not requiring i'm not um what what typically happens is in the type of system
where you have mineral sufficiency and you have everything adequately balanced the plant doesn't
typically need those associations so a lot of times they won't make those associations and
there's no testing that we can do so that's something i'm going to be doing after my next
harvest because you have to get root samples um so for me in the type of system that i'm running with
a modified growing mix where uh it's a combination of it's not technically a soil right it doesn't
have um sand silt or clay it's a combination of pea compost human uh organic matter and mineral
inputs and the applications that i would use for something like mycorrhizal would be more for field
applications like when i'm doing my uh when i'm doing my outdoor and we're tilling in our like
compost and our amendments that was something that i would be because in those i think in those
agronomic settings when you don't have mineral sufficiency that's really really the benefits
that you get from having those types of um microorganisms you know to help with the
retention of water help with the retention of nutrients solubilization of phosphorus
and so just for me i i'm looking more at what type of microorganism i'm going to be applying
for what type of setting you know if it's a high stress situation where i need where i'm probably
not going to have um mineral sufficiency i would opt towards a mycorrhizal product as opposed to
a trichoderma product because of the different mode of action that those things take and what
they do differently well said all right mr harry all right this is like uh the lincoln douglas
debates were like each presidential candidate they had a debate topic and each candidate had
like i think it was an it's either like 30 minutes or an hour to lay out their like main points and
then the other guy got to go for the same amount of time and then the first guy got like another
25 minutes of uninterrupted like rebuttal time so anyway here we go so yeah hold tight i don't think
this is a real debate right here but so uh what brandon was saying about trichoderma is certainly
correct a lot of times most strains of trichoderma will just be very aggressive and dominant when
we'll out compete most other fungi and basically kill them all off and that's one of the reasons
why we don't have trichoderma in dynamico is specifically for that reason but what brandon
is doing which is not what most growers in the world correct me if i'm wrong or doing is he's
actually building his his growing media according to exactly what he needs so that he doesn't have
to add most inputs later on in the growing stage most growers are not like brand most people in the
world are not like brandon okay so that's a compliment of course of course so i appreciate
it yeah man of course so um you know if you're not building your uh soil or your growing media
exactly the way brandon is doing um where he's looking for specific traits in the soil and using
microbes in order to uh crop steer uh you will need beneficial microbes and dynamite or or in
general mycorrhizal fungi should be the foundation of that soil because most soils when you're buying
them bagged definitely cocoa there's nothing in that soil to begin like so they'll literally
sterilize that bag of soil so that when you get it you know you won't call a week later and say hey
i have fungus gnats i have this i have that i have all this other stuff so they kill all the bad guys
and they also kill the good guys too as you know the mycorrhizal fungi so it's super important to
add the fungi to those growing medias uh regarding cocoa you know there's no mycorrhizal fungi and
cocoa whatsoever because cocoa comes from coconuts and mycorrhizal fungi are found in the soil so
when you use a growing media such as cocoa you definitely want to add it now uh mycorrhizal
fungi do help in the uptake of iron and they also help in the uptake of other stuff as well such as
phosphorus and nitrogen and potassium um calcium um we said iron already so all that stuff but it
also allows your plants to absorb more water so um the fungi endo mycorrhizal fungi will literally
penetrate the roots and they'll penetrate the cell of the roots and then they'll start bringing in
more nutrients that the plant is actually in need of and in return the fungus will get these sugars
from the plant so it's a little bit different than the trichoderma in that sense uh and another thing
is that it can also help in plant communications if you're doing a companion planting or something
like that uh the mycorrhizal fungi will act as a basically communication network where your plants
will be able to communicate with one another through this hyphal network and they'll be able
to also sometimes transfer nutrients from one another or water from one another or information
from one another say if there are pests or something like that they can transfer that information to
plants later on down the road you know or down the soil saying hey there's a pathogen here you
know increase your terpene production or increase your your phytochemicals to ward off these pests
so that's one of the things that mycorrhizal fungi do that that uh trichoderma won't do and
you can use them together but ideally you'd want to wait a little bit with the trichoderma because
like i said it's it tends to be a lot more aggressive and can just out compete everything
because it's also much uh higher in concentrations most often compared to mycorrhizal fungi it's a
lot more difficult to produce the mycorrhizal fungi than it is to produce the trichoderma
and so you do you can use them together but you would want to apply the mycorrhizal fungi in a
later stage of life or the plant's life excellent do you guys just quickly do you guys see that
question which one right right smack in the middle of the screen yeah um so typically one of the
things that i'll do is i'll use the bacillus subtilis along with the trichoderma because
that particular consortium of microorganisms works very very well synergistically and the
bacillus subtilis has been shown to be endophatic as well and can actually help they both the bacillus
subtilis and trichoderma they do signal sar response and acquired acquired immunity responses
so that's one of that is one of the benefits they do they do have some priming mechanisms involved
um but it for what i've seen um the the combination alone of just those two or single
has always produced uh more biomass of root and it's typically because the plant is less susceptible
to any type of fungal pathogen which could happen you know if you do something
like over water for instance and that soil goes a little anaerobic
hard um okay so regarding the root formations like i said uh with our muscular mycorrhizal fungi
the fungi will penetrate into uh the roots so you're going to be getting larger root masses
um also some of the strains that we have inside are known to help with root development as well
so it really depends on you know what plant you're growing and what that root formation is
looking like to begin with but plants can you know you can increase the the absorption
some studies say a hundred some say ten some say even a thousand it really depends on what pots
you're in and what size um you know what pot you're using what growing media you're using also
it's kind of tough to say what the differences in the root formations will be um and another thing
is that the moment you go into the soil and you start digging up that soil that's it you've broken
you've broken apart all these hyphal networks in the soil so it's very difficult to uh to calculate
how much mycorrhizal fungi is actually in there because the moment you put something down in that
soil that's it you know you've broken those connections apart and that's why it's so important
uh you know for these uh living soil guys not to not to till because the moment you do till
you're breaking up that soil uh you know that hyphal network in the soil
i've always kind of found that interesting that that's you know because i work with microbes
consistently i do a lot of solid state fermentation i do a lot of different microbial products
and i know how extremely fast these things can grow but you know i think that
and i think too there's kind of a wider almost there's kind of a wider disconnect between
the type of modified growing mixes and fulfilling like the sufficiency of nutrient and balance
and like standard field agronomic soil living soil food web science
because i don't take the same approach to cultivating in beds at scale as i do cultivating
outdoors it's a completely different thing we're doing uh our approach is completely different
completely different and like i was telling you yesterday we don't do things like add earthworms
to our beds and a lot of living soil guys will be like oh well that's not a living soil if you
don't have worms that's part of a soil food web and i told you about how those soils can become
so compact with castings real quickly when you're at you know adding amendments into those things
which can cause you know soil compaction and cause uh you know you have to add a more
calcium amendments to break that open and more aeration and it can overall you know cause
problems and if you have something that you've created that's already stable and it's doing
exactly what you want for that single purpose then um i you know that's where i take a different
approach you know we'll using biology and using you know a wider range you know using a wider
diversity of populations for agronomic soils and what we do for outdoor when we do our initial
tilling in yeah we're gonna initially till in a bunch of compost amendments organic matter and
then we're gonna just do crop covers we're not going to disturb the soils after that like we're
like he was saying but because those types of settings are act differently so you know my
approach is to is is a little bit different and that's one of the reasons why i you know geared
towards doing the trichoderma over the mycorrhizal um and then but there's tests too that we can do
which i'll be i'll be doing that after this harvest where you can get a root sample taken to see
if there's been an established uh connection with an endo uh endophatic mycorrhizal
uh species and they can determine what that is as well so it's a really inexpensive test it's like
80 i think layton morrison was the one that told me about that so that's something that i can add to
the data set you know to see okay because there's so much information and some people will say
mycorrhizal and trichoderma will work together right there's people that say they won't work
together there's certain strains that might work together and substrains that might not work
together so you know there's so many different there's so many like different settings and
possibilities and interactions with other things and abiotic and biotic stress factors nutrient
availability in the soil i've read papers that says that the plant will stop releasing a photosynthate
if it to you know if it's feeding an organism that's there because it's giving it's making
phosphorus soluble right and it already has an adequate amount of phosphate in the soil
it'll stop feeding that photosynthase and then that that relationship could change right because
microorganisms you know they they adapt and they're consistently changing you know the groups are
changing as soils dry out as ph is you know fluctuate so there's so many different factors
and it's one of the reasons that i think like having consistency is really important when it
comes to using products as well you know you want to make sure that if you're if you want to have
maximum efficacy for a product you use it continually you know like the micro plus that i
use we have 55 gallons of it and we use it you know weekly to help solubilize that phosphate
and so it falls in the solution so but you know one of the things too is as you scale
you have to look at the like cost too yeah absolutely what uh what do you think about that
you know at when you are going at the the larger scale well the thing with dynamico the beautiful
thing is that the way it's priced is that it's priced that also the home grower can benefit from
it and also a very large scale very very large scale manufacturer can can use it and enjoy it
as well and we're talking about you know maybe about a dollar per application per plant in total
over the plant's entire life cycle when you know we're seeing 10 20 30 percent yield increases at
these facilities so um you know we're also seeing shorter veg times at certain facilities so that's
translating into them using less fertilizers or using more fertilizer sooner right so they get
their plants into the right size during veg they get them to you know the ideal size before flipping
a lot faster than they would so that's you know that's money saving right there and time saving
right there as well um i did want to touch up on what brandon said uh regarding the soil so
if if your soil is perfect right if your plant has every possible nutrient in that soil and it's
readily available to to your plant the fungi won't make that big of an impact because you know if
you've already got everything you need in life like you know what what more benefit can i give
you if i get like if you're a billionaire already and i give you a hundred dollars more like you're
gonna say what do i need this for you know right but if you're living in like if you got if if you
have poor quality soil or you know things aren't in balance and you're lacking something in the
soil that's when that's when the fungi are going to make a huge impact and you're going to really
see visual differences and another thing is that when we talk about my garage the fungi a lot of
times we say it's it's more of an insurance policy right you add it to your soil a lot of times you
know even if you don't see the differences if shit hits the fan and all of a sudden your plants are
starting to uh you know your water goes out or whatever you know your plants have drought
the plants that did have the the fungi in them you know they'll be a lot hardier and will survive a
lot longer than the ones that did not have the uh the uh the fungi in them so that's one aspect
another aspect is that uh the fungi can also they also have um plant pathogen um protection like so
so there's certain um traits that these fungi have that can help uh combat soil pathogens so that's
another thing that they have so you know you're getting this like i said this insurance policy
where you can add it say for a dollar a plant and you know the worst case nothing happens you don't
really see a difference with these plants which doesn't really happen often where you won't see
differences because it like the like i said the differences have been substantial across all the
trials that we've done uh and also with these growers but you know if you don't see the differences
and then if something bad happens you'll be able to see how the fungi come you know into play and
do protect the plant from you know drought or heat or biotic stressors as well this question is for
both of you guys so a little bit back to the trichoderma why do you think some of those brands
um especially you know a few years ago we have you guys now explaining this a lot to the community
why were they uh touting that they had trichoderma with their mycorrhizal fungi as like uh
as their product is better i can't answer for other companies but but i mean what do you think
what do you think the thinking behind so i think the thinking behind it in my opinion was like
you know let's diversity yeah diversity is key like try to get as much as whatever we can and i
guess it's kind of like the the best things will win yeah that's kind of how they work anyway you
know um but the thing is if you're the problem really comes in is if you're saying making a claim
that's that's oh it has this because this one's gonna do this and then this one's gonna do this
when in reality one of them's gonna completely cancel the other thing out i'm you should that's
you know that's more of an ethical a business ethics problem or maybe a lack of you know
understanding on how um how different microbe consortiums work together because that's kind of
like i think key is understanding how other things play well so that way you can you know you can
inoculate with with you know a probiotic you know that's gonna efficiently give you what you expected
every time i will say further that um you know with with mycorrhizal fungi the larger and the
more concentrated your product is so the higher uh number of propagules you have in your product
the more likely you are to colonize a plant so simple as that right and because a lot of these
products were not actually being manufactured you know and they were outsourcing these fungi
they tend to be expensive so if you can't get high numbers of these fungi they might not perform
very very well and so if they don't perform very well you have to add other stuff into the product
to make it perform and that can be plant food that can be other you know other microbes that will
do what the other microbes say that they will do but you know aren't don't have enough in them to
actually do that so you know it really depends on the product and how much uh what the concentration
is of the mycorrhizal fungi in it to actually you know make a serious impact on on the plant
and i mean i've seen you know growing media or other even products i've seen products that have
one propagule per gram in it right whereas dynamicals got 900 so another thing is that
there's no standard for what is considered a mycorrhizal inoculant right there's no baseline
which says above 100 propagules per gram you're considered a mycorrhizal inoculant or above 10
or whatever it is so so any company pretty much can make a claim of having mycorrhizal fungi in there
you know you could put one one propagule on there and and not have it in there and probably get
get something similar just from the environment yeah yeah yeah yeah that's actually another
question that i had for you are is you know when people are starting to learn to read labels the
main thing that a lot of these guys are talking about is colony forming units cfus can you kind
of explain that to the layman and explain you know why that's such a like a hot topic these last few
so so mycorrhizal fungi are not counted by cfus they are counted by propagules and cfus are colony
forming units that can be bacteria trichoderma but mycorrhizal fungi they act differently and
they don't reproduce constantly right they need plant roots in order to uh to create more spores
so they have to have this host plant or roots which if you're growing in vivo or in vitro when
you're producing your fungi you have to have a host plant in order to do so and so when you read
these labels cfus are valid for trichoderma and bacteria but not for mycorrhizal fungi and that's
very important to understand right so there's different like certain products might say
uh can see a few of of glomus and charatises but that's not how you count those mycorrhizal fungi
so that yeah i'm super glad people are starting to read the labels because once you start reading
the labels you will see that a lot of these products have the exact same ingredients in them
almost the identical concentrations as well and that's because most of them are sourced from the
exact same place to begin with but if if we will talk a little bit about how you test the strength
of a mycorrhizal inoculum you can go into that a little bit so um so there's there's a few ways to
test the the strength of mycorrhizal inoculants and there's a visual test and then there's another
test which is called npm so a visual test would be if you had a you know you take your your fungi
and you put it on a petri dish and you start looking at what you have under the microscope
and let's just say that this is a part of a root fragment okay so this is considered a propagule
so propagules are uh made up of spores hyphae and root fragments so let's say you take a single you
find a root fragment which is this length so that's now considered one propagule but what happens if
you cut this this propagule into a million pieces do you now have a million propagules or do you
still have one propagule and that's a real big problem because you know that visual test might
not really indicate how strong your product is and how effective it is so there's different ways to
test your product and calculate the uh the strength of the fungi and then get to this
uh propagule concentration so if you go just by visual you might really miss out on how strong it
is uh whereas with another strength which is called npm which is the most probable number
you're actually going to be taking your product and you're going to be diluting the concentration
of it to each time 10 to the negative nth power so 10 to the negative 1 negative 2 negative 3
however many you get and then what you're going to do is you're going to see at what rates did you
still have inoculation and then you're going to say okay i got it at this concentration and i still
have inoculation this is probably this is the most probable number of propagules that i have
in this product and that is the real scientific way to do it it takes a very long time to do it
it takes several months to do such a test like that and that's why a lot of people avoid that
test altogether and you have one guy doing that yeah and there's only exactly there's there's very
limited amount of people who can actually perform these uh most probable number tests so you know
it really comes down to uh it's also like if you're looking at stained roots like you really
need to know what you're doing and you need to really uh be on top of your game when it comes
to mycorrhiza and fungi and plants and roots and to know if that's an inoculation if that's a you
know if that's a hyphae if that's a spore if that's an arbuscula if that's a vesicle you really need
to know you know you have to do a lot of mycology courses and classes in order to to really understand
what's going on there and that's why a lot of times people say oh well i don't know you know
i don't know if it works or how do i know if it works right well you'll see the visual differences
a lot of times but you know if you don't have the proper tools in the lab and all that stuff you will
you won't have a way to really know unless you pulled them out and saw like one had huge roots
and the other one didn't have them but you know that's still also not a huge indication like if
you want to see how much of your roots have actually been colonized you have to do these
these tests yeah i'm excited to see you know what if any type of uh colonization on
um on our beds would look like just from you know ubiquitous microorganisms because the only thing
that uh i use particularly are you know the ipm microbes the blueberry bassiana and the micro
plus which is the bacillus species it's a purple non-sulfur bacteria in the yeast and then also
the trichoderma and bacillus i'm working on some other stuff right now but uh it i'm it's gonna
give me another data point which just for me is is good because you know everything that i do is so
data driven and i just try to you know always meet these targets or exceed you know what i was doing
at the neck the the previous time so um i i have i i love the idea of and i know you're doing it
being able to test and test at scale and it's basically like all variables constant except
for one like can you just give everyone an example of something recently that you wanted to research
and it's like i had bed a and bed b and everything was constant except for one variable so right now
i pretty much finished i just have a couple little things i need to do on the grow container up at
the farm and it's just for r and d it's for breeding um and it's all leds and the lights
are pretty high intense they have a really high p uh par number and so one of the things that i was
actually talking to brian about before was increasing the photosynthetic chemicals um to
compensate for that high p uh p uh that high par number or p ppfd or whatever you guys know what i
mean i'm really baked right now so um the total number of micromoles over the course of the day
or at any one specific point in time yeah it's the intensity the photohook synthetic uh
what you know that like again you guys know what i'm talking about oh
so there's different things that i can do first off i need to make sure that i have everything
in that particular space dialed in before i start to do the do a bunch of like research data driven
side by sides with and without but that'll be that will be something that i that i do
coming up here within the next couple of months and part of that is going to be testing out
different microbial consortiums and you know collecting data to see what's called what's
colonized what's sticking around a lot of these things are uh kind of hard to test for
some of them you can't um you can't really colonize in laboratory settings so it's really
almost impossible to see you know 100 of what is in your soil as far as microorganisms but trying to
you know source the types of companies that are able to you know sequence what's in there
will give me a really good idea you know of what they're doing because if i know what they are i
can look at their metabolite profiles to see which you know type of compounds are being released what
type of organic acids you know what's being what type of mineralized minerals they're solubilizing
all those things are all can all be factored in and into the data when you're talking about how
soil falls into solution what's uptaken into the tissue and then how you know how it all kind of
is coheresive you know in uh in the way that it functions uh i don't know i'm gonna just
collect as much data as i can but right now i'm not doing any direct side by sides we're just
doing our regular cultivation for uh keeping our soil sufficiently uh full of nutrient and balance
and that's you know that's what what we're doing right now and i'll be doing most of the research
you know after that thing is completely finished i still have to put some more trays in there
my box ain't all the way set up so r do you want to kind of talk more about like you so when we
were growing up you know i don't know some of this might be bro science but if you had too much
mycorrhizal fungi or i'm sorry if you had too much uh certain nutrients that they would see
that as a pathogen because it wasn't considered like a symbiotic relationship the plant would be
using up too much energy uh to feed that mycorrhizal fungi is there truth to that and if so
could we expand on that either way so the the fungi's food source is from the plant itself
right so so long as the plant is enjoying life right and it's it's growing it's gonna need and
it needs the fungus the fungus is gonna get its food from the plant right that's the exchange
right there that's why the plant needs the fungus and that's why the fungus needs the plant they've
evolved together and if the if the plant does not provide the fungus with the food it's simply
going to die within a matter of of days or a certain amount of time um some farmers believe
that's that true and that happens uh sometimes even with like mediocre uh mycorrhizal fungi that
you would have purchased like it can uh survive a little bit and then dies off right it could happen
i mean if the levels are if the levels of you know if if the concentrations of the fungi are low to
begin with and then you're pouring on a lot of uh you know heavy salts that could cause them to die
because you know a lot of these fungi aren't used to living in very salty areas the fungi in
dynamica one of the strains that we use actually comes from the saltiest area in the world it comes
from the dead sea region so it's able to tolerate high salinity and that's where it's been living
for the last 450 million years just about give or take so we have a like a consortium of different
strains of glomus intraradices and glomus mace in dynamico so that's where that that's salinity
tolerance comes from but like i said a lot of it has to do with how much fungi was actually in the
product to begin with so uh in in the late 80s professor yara yaram kapal nick from israel
um was doing his phd on plant interaction uh soil uh plant soil interactions testing the
rhizosphere and basically he you know was was learning about mycorrhiza and and the and their
symbiotic relationship and he began to order different products from around the world that
claimed to have mycorrhizal fungi in them and he saw no inoculation he saw no effect whatsoever
and so he began to look for mycorrhizal fungi and that's how dynamico came to be was this this
professor was actually look this uh this doctor this phd was looking for fungi in order to do
these tests on so that's where uh 25 years of research was done on the fungal strains in dynamico
and it was simply because you know it was out of necessity he could not find something which
actually did what it said it would do and the moment he found this uh this universal soldier
this badass fungi um that's when he really started seeing these differences in in the
plant so you know he would reduce uh water usage and still see uh yield increases he'd reduce
phosphorus uh and still see increased yield so all these different stuff that happened once he
really found a legitimate fungal strain and he also started manufacturing the fungi on his own so
he developed this whole protocol which is then what we uh you know that's part of our ip which
we have so um you know if you have very low concentrations to begin within your product
you might you know the fungi might die off it might never even associate with them with the
plant uh but if you do have high concentrations and you are within you know the the ranges of what
you need to be where you're not going to kill your plant with with pouring on these you know
these nutrients your fungi will be fine and survive and thrive actually and and all the tests that
we've done all the all the trials that we've done in israel they've all been with growers who are
using synthetic fertilizers all of them because you know they're huge they're large large scale
there's you know hundreds of thousands of plants a year so we're talking about you know 20 30 rows
of 250 plants at a time and and you know they just can't do it organic at that scale and they're
constantly turning it over so um it's all synthetic uh fertilizers and that's where we've done the
trials with and you know afterwards we obviously we pull out you know roots we take them to the
lab we do all that testing and we do see inoculation still so that is that is uh you
know like i said it really depends on what's in the product to begin with
also i will say that because it's biological product a lot of times when if if your product
isn't stored properly that can really affect what you're getting right and uh the the oregon
department of ag has done lots of these tests where they'll just come and pull different products
from the shelf and a lot of times unfortunately you know what the labels say are nowhere near what
the uh you know what the test the lab test that the oregon department has done uh and that can you
know i'm not saying that it's because the companies were bullshitting what it has inside it but you
know there are environmental um things that can affect your uh your biological products such as
how it's stored what temperature it's stored at is it indirect sunlight or indirect sunlight did
it freeze on the way over to you you know there's tons of different stuff which can impact and affect
your your biological product so that's you know that's another thing you got to really follow
the uh storage um instructions as well i agree with that
uh so do we have questions yet
i gotta get going okay
no problem what's waiting over there come back tomorrow yeah i should be able to come back
um i'll be here i gotta farm tomorrow i would farm in you gotta work in your shirt
there's a question about i work every day i work this morning but a question about how long it takes
the mycorrhiza to uh to take effect um that that can really vary um it can be from 24 hours up to
three weeks depending on you know how much fungi are actually are you applying what the state of
the plant is it and uh it really depends on multiple um multiple uh variables but we will
say that you know when we've done trials you can see uh visual differences within several days
so if you're if you're you know if you're rooting clone if you're rooting cuttings for instance
you're taking the you know you want to clone we're seeing clones develop within three to five days
whereas without uh you know the fungi takes a lot longer it can take seven days eight days ten days
something like that uh and just in general the the height differences and width differences you know
within two weeks of of applying our fungi can be you know substantial compared to what you're seeing
without the fungi so like i said biology works in mysterious ways and you know if we could
guarantee that it'll take 12 hours we would but unfortunately we can't because you know these these
fungi they they have a mind of their own i guess you know they're living organisms and they do their
own thing and you know i can't you can't push a button and tell them hey start working right now
brandon did you see that question earlier brandon uh what was that mind numbing dab hit that you
took earlier is that something you brought no that was uh what the gear brought i believe it's
three different things mixed together i think and to get that to get brandon to kind of lose his
mind is a challenge so kudos to whoever put that one together oh yeah actually i think we'll be
talking to her tomorrow all right right on maybe we can have brandon talk to murphy after he does
have well we appreciate you guys coming on and again uh you know how do they reach you on
instagram and all that if you guys want to plug that one more time oh sure uh rust rust.brandon
b-r-a-n-d-o-n you can find a link to bokashi earthworks black label and you know i post all
the time all different kinds of cool stuff i got a little skateboarding puppy
uh we're uh dino mico d-y-n-o-m-y-c-o so at dino mico i don't have an instagram myself but
um you know if you shoot a message to dino mico i'll be more than happy to you know message back
there was a question over here at what stage in the plant's life is it best to apply the
micro the earlier you applied in the plant's life the better off you are because uh the later on in
the plant's life it gets harder to get to those uh brand new uh root tips right so and that's where
the fungi penetrate into the root so you want to inoculate at every stage you can and at the
earliest stage possible so ideally if you're popping a seed like you know in the soil make
sure that that seed already has some mycorrhiza in the vicinity of that seed if you're transplanting
whenever you do so make sure that that has it if you're cloning it you're taking cuts you know you
put it into a cube make sure that that cube has mycorrhiza in it or other bacteria in it as well
just to help speed up the process so the earlier in the plant's life the better it is and if you
want to check differences you can go into our uh youtube page or our instagram you'll see
tons of differences with plants when they're inoculated earlier or later on in life and we've
also seen differences in cannabinoid content uh when you inoculate earlier or later or not at all
so that's another thing another factor because basically when when you have these fungi and your
plants are pulling in more nutrients your your plants entire phytochemical and and uh terpene
content it all changes the moment your plants are able to absorb more nutrients and more water
so that's also another really interesting thing well said uh it does seem like everybody's kind
of wrapping up here uh peter thanks for having us head out see you guys good yeah
that's good timing because uh jemma's school just ended and uh i just got some blackbird preservation
i'll see you so that's uh that's very exciting what is that toast
do you see is it toast it's not toast thanks for having me on the show appreciate you jumping on
okay all right really appreciate it man and uh absolutely it's been a pleasure man every time
i see you it's a joy so hopefully we can do it a lot more than uh you know it's been a
one-year hiatus since i saw you yeah thanks all right
peace all right so we got a lot of fantastic guests for tomorrow as well
uh we're going to be talking to propane jane officially with uh murphy so we're going in
an extraction direction right yeah we're going to kind of uh change it up a little bit tomorrow
there's a couple other people
brandon just left his big jar oh well
now we'll get that back to him obviously uh yeah there's a and there's a few more sponsors
that uh unfortunately we weren't able to get to today that we will get to tomorrow
just a lot more people he did but we it was always something was going on and it seemed
like it really popped there was a lot of people so i don't blame him if he had to be at his booth
for the rest of the day yeah and we uh hold on let me queue up
so for anyone who uh
who doesn't feel good enough about themselves today this was the
so in addition to the tough chat comments we had uh this was the standout for me today from the uh
from instagram james loud
so anyway uh i like to look in the mirror and tell myself you're good enough you're smart enough
and doggone it peter people do like you and uh and that's how i keep on keeping on
so thank all right now this so this is cool so every like they're literally closing the
exhibit hall down yes they are yeah all right so that's like we don't have a choice we have to stop
now yeah we are uh i'm proud of our team man we're ruthless with this oh yeah yeah so we're gonna go
enjoy ourselves this evening and be right back at it uh first thing so your homework assignment for
tomorrow is to come back with an assessment of what you're i know you have an initial assessment
but i want like the two-day assessment of what you're seeing in the oklahoma market okay so that's
and remember we're we're trying to build those networks too it's uh
there's a lot of new people out here so i feel like there's a lot to learn
yeah well so actually one of the conversations i was trying to put together was the woman
at oma which is the oklahoma like uh agency talking to brandon or another grower who's like
has to deal with their regulation like i thought that'd be a cool conversation like the regulator
and the regulated because oklahoma is actually pretty chill extremely chill but i i think you
know there's still some things that people would like to see tweaked we're gonna open carry over
here and have uh have our drinks and our smokes yeah so for everyone watching yeah day one i mean
we're we're trying you know we're we're putting conversations together on the fly not every
conversation's for you not everybody is at your level of amazingness um all right some people
wanted to be on and then when i it was game time they uh they you know kind of chickened out so
not everybody that we and even i i loved i loved the uh eric from bioag getting shit and i was in
my head i was like this dude's like smart he gives a shit he cares about this stuff he has like you
know all sorts of plant science degrees like appreciate that chat like he's uh i see security
lurking in the back yeah don't uh don't squat down to do your dabs i guess oh well actually
you guys are tight with those guys now right uh not all of them there's some there's some
cannons in the well i'll let you guys go um yep uh like i said we're gonna and try to network
tonight and maybe we could even find some people we don't even know about for the show tomorrow
goal is to get some people that we don't know but at the same time uh you know some people just
don't interview the the way that we thought they were well may your weed smoking tonight exceed
your expectations i'm hoping i'm hoping oh and go get your shirts a dag of love oh we're rocking
let let oh my god that's baby not mama number one calling me on facetime hold on let me uh
the life of peter oh man yes all right guys my gosh she's calling again hold on let me
all right so with that everybody have a good thursday and we'll see you uh what 11 a.m tomorrow
uh oklahoma time is that kind of one shit open yeah i think so that'll be the perfect time
oh real quick again shout out to red dirt race shout out to james appreciate everything that
you've been doing for us buddy uh we're gonna talk to him again tomorrow since his uh his
interview was cut a little short there yeah all right thank you everyone have a good thursday
and we'll see you tomorrow bye
