Hello, everybody.
How are you doing?
I hope you're doing well.
I am excited to have another fantastic day with each and every one of you checking out
the show.
Hopefully, that intro sounded a bit weird on my end.
Let me know in the chat there if it came out a little bit funny for you.
But as usual, we have a brilliant guest with us today.
Now one thing that I want to just like jump in to right off the bat with you, Collier,
is how's the freaking weather out there, man?
And also, thank you again so much for coming on the show.
We love having you on.
We're going to have you on a couple other times this year, so make sure to follow along
with us while we grow with Collier.
They really wanted to dig in, and BC's having a tough spring, and it's been quite cold.
So I'd love to know how's it going on Texada Island, and how are you doing as well?
Oh, yeah, I'm doing well.
Yeah, I mean, the snow just stopped.
It was literally just snowing crazy here about two minutes ago.
But I'm up in the mountains on Texada, so I'm about 420 meters above sea level, and
so we get a lot more snow.
But I think in the next couple weeks, I'm probably going to start seedlings and stuff
like that, start my seeds, start putting them in the ground.
I like to start seeds anywhere from March to April, somewhere in that zone is generally
what I aim for.
And then one of the other questions, so what's the sign then?
Because I mean, this year you had to push it back a little bit because of the snow,
but what's a clear sign that it's a good time to start your seeds outdoor if you're working
in the northern hemisphere?
Like maybe temperatures and stuff like that?
What are your kind of rules of thumb to get these things started?
I usually, I like to look at kind of like a two-week forecast.
I mean, I'm on the coast, I'm on the west coast, so it's obviously different depending
on where you are in Canada.
You know, we have a lot more moderate weather here, so I like to have, you know, I don't
want to start things if we're going into a real cold snap.
If I was in the interior or if I was in Ontario, I would probably be waiting till late April
or May.
Again, we're going to be talking about how I start my seeds and do it almost entirely
without, I do it with no lights and I do it outside for the most part.
I pop the seeds in a tray and I leave them inside for a few days until they pop and then
I put them outside under a dome and they can even handle freezing temperatures, but I'm
talking coastal freezing temperatures, not like minus 40 like you'd get in Saskatchewan
or something.
So yeah, so you know, pretty much, you know, I'm going to be starting them in the next
probably couple weeks.
If I was in the interior or in Ontario, Saskatchewan, it'd probably be April or May.
And so we have some slides coming along here and one of the things, and I actually didn't
really pop that up a little bit too fast because I wanted to touch into like, so what are your
thoughts on seed starting?
Now, oftentimes what I see more often than not happen in this space is people go and
they go out and they go to their garden shop or their supply shop, maybe their dispensary
first to pick up their seeds if it happens to be that way or they order them online.
But regardless, they usually pick them up and then they go to the shop and they go,
oh, how do I get my seeds started?
And they always get loaded with crap.
You know, they're like, we need you to have like trays, pods, lids, totally.
And then it's like, oh, we need lamps and all this lighting, all this extra stuff, heat
pads, this, that and the other.
And like, I wonder sometimes is it all necessary?
And when we're trying to be and think and behave more regeneratively, is that the right
way to go?
I don't know.
What are your thoughts on that?
Well, I think you can do it really simply.
Like you can take old yogurt containers and drill a hole in the bottom and use those for
containers if you need to.
You can just use like garden soil if you need to.
It is nice with seedlings though to start off with a nice seedling mix because you're
not going to have pests and you're not going to have potential.
There are problems with just using soil from the garden.
You can do it, but the seeds, let's face it, they're not the cheapest thing in the world,
especially in the legal market that we are in.
Every seed that we have has a dollar excise tax on it.
So they're pretty expensive.
So you want your germination rate to be good.
And by having nice soil, and generally I would recommend a pro mix or something like that
mixed with a bit of compost.
That's a good mix for starting seedlings.
And yeah, you can use a little tray with a little dome.
Everyone kind of has their own method, but we're going to go through.
Yeah, so that for instance is the dome that you can get at almost any little garden center.
I like to get the bigger ones so that the plants don't grow up.
And so I literally start those seeds indoors in room temperature.
I pop them in the soil.
I go about this deep.
You can see the pencil here.
I use the, it's kind of like a really good marker, right?
Because I put a little hole in the tray about that deep, pop the seed in, and then I let
the, I give it a little bit of water after.
You have to make sure it's not too wet, not too dry.
Leave it inside for about four to five days.
Once the seeds start popping, I put them outside and sometimes it snows and those little seedlings
are fine.
Now that being said, I love this picture because of that.
I love that picture because of that.
I think that's so cool.
And then so what type of, I mean, we're talking about snow here, but for that initial popping
period when they're in the soil, what do you suggest as the temperature you want to keep
them at?
Do you want them to be bouncing up and down to get a little bit more hardiness in the
seed and make sure, I mean, for you, you're doing a bit of breeding.
So you want to like, you want to almost stress that point.
So you make sure that they're able to handle that period.
But what are your thoughts?
I have no idea.
I'm just throwing out assumptions here really when it comes down to it.
I mean, I like to keep it, the temperatures can fluctuate.
I mean, I've been living off grid the last 25 years.
So I have a wood stove and the temperature gets hot and it gets cold.
So, you know, but generally you want to keep it fairly warm.
If you just put them, like, let's say I put things out in a greenhouse, those seeds would
still pop, but they would take a lot longer.
And it's interesting because the seeds, like they sense the cold and when they can sense
the cold, what they'll do is they'll just put their roots down in the soil and they'll
just wait and they won't, they won't actually pop out until it gets hot.
And then once it gets hot enough, they'll pop out from above the soil.
But otherwise they like to protect that little green part.
So yeah, the temperature, I'd say room temperature, you know, somewhere in between like 16 to
22 is, is a good, good, good starting point.
Is there a heat point that kind of like if they get up to like 35, 40, you're kind of
like you might be a little hooped?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
With seedlings, you definitely don't want them to get too warm.
And that's one of the problems with those heat mats actually is they can be beneficial,
but you can also overheat them and then yeah, they can cook.
I always like to keep things cooler because it's less problematic.
You'll get faster growth with more heat, but there's also more likelihood that things
could keel over and die.
And so yeah, these little tiny seedlings that are in this tray outside in, in roughly one
degree weather with snow, you know, who would think that those seeds could turn into these,
seedlings could turn into these beautiful big plants that we'll, we'll see later on
as we go through these slides.
Yeah, so as you can see, like right there, that's kind of like, some of those are even
maybe stretching a little bit too, too fast, but when you put them outside because it's
cold and because they're getting good light, they shouldn't really stretch any more than
that.
If you leave them inside for too long, they'll just keep stretching and stretching and eventually
that's not a good thing.
So what I do is I put them outside, they, they grow slow and they're really tough, really
hardy, hardy little seedlings.
And what size pot I see like a, what a one, two, three, four, five, six by 12, six by
nine.
That tray there is a 72 insert tray.
So you have options.
You can do a 12, you can do a 72, you can use beer cups and drill a hole in the bottom.
And I think you can get about 15 beer cups in, in a tray.
Yeah, it just kind of depends on, on what you, what you want to do.
As you can see here, you know, I didn't have like a hundred percent germination rate.
Some of those still might pop up cause they, they come kind of up, up at different times.
But once they, you know, like they're at that stage, those are, are pretty, I'm pretty happy
with how those look, you know, like they haven't stretched too much.
I've got them outside.
They're not going to stretch anymore and they're just going to slowly grow, but there'll
be really tough.
And that probably would have been mid to late, probably around mid-March.
I'm guessing that that was.
Okay, nice.
So mid-March, this is from, these are photos from last year.
I'm guessing.
Those are, those ones there are probably actually like a few years ago.
But the funny thing is, is I haven't actually taken a lot of pictures of seedlings because
they're just not as, you know, people want to see the big plants and all this other stuff.
And this was a friend of mine sent me some seedlings that she had.
And again, so right at that point, you know, that's a good time to either put them under
an artificial light or put them outside in a greenhouse or something.
Cause otherwise they're just going to stretch and stretch.
A lot of times if you just put them in a window, they're going to stretch too much.
Yeah, that, that, that, especially I find in our, in Canada, like that natural, like
if you're, if you're just using window light, you get a lot of those long, low angles in
the, in the winter and in this period of time.
And like, you really have to rotate that tray like all day long to make sure that you're
not doing it if you're just using like your window.
Right.
So you said like, it looks like a soil blend that you're using, that you were using there.
Is that your go-to?
Do you like to have like a blended soil, a seed starter, like a sterile seed starter
mix?
Because a lot of people like the, what I'm hearing and people moving towards is like
bioactive, like, you know, bacterial enriched soil to start seeds off.
Cause it gives them a little bit better of a start.
But for years we've been planting in sterile seed cocoa mix or, or rock wool or some of
these crazy things.
Like, what's your thoughts on the mix that you're using to start your seedlings?
And I think this is probably the best conversation we could have right about this time of year
as everybody's looking to get into, get into their planting and get it, get started.
So like, what's, what's your, what's your specific, I know you mentioned earlier, I
believe you said soil, but can you get into that a little bit more on your specific?
Yeah, I like to use just like a, a basic pro mix as, as a foundation I find is pretty good,
but then I could take like a bale of pro mix and I could add two bags of high quality compost
into that mix and then really blend it all really well.
Cause you don't want any clumps and the compost will add a lot of that kind of beneficial
bacteria and, and a small amount of nutrients.
The seedlings don't need a lot of nutrients at that time, but you're a lot better off
to add some compost rather than just going with like just a straight pro mix that doesn't
have any nutrients.
So yeah, something like that.
You can also make your own, like you don't have to buy those $35 bales of pro mix.
You can make your own with basic peat moss and lime and then, and then adding, adding
the compost, a high quality compost is really good.
Yeah.
I, that's kind of my go-to has always been, and we had that conversation with, we had
a conversation with Dr. James Boyd a little bit ago about talking about that rhizophage
bacteria.
And one of the big subjects in Jeff Lunsfeld's most recent book is about that bacteria in
the seed and like even thinking about how we store them.
But that's, that is a little later on.
We'll talk about storing seeds and, and, and, and get collecting seeds maybe at the end
of this season when we get close to harvest.
But for now we're talking about starting them.
So I mean, what's your thoughts on the pods?
Cause I see here you've got, you've got the compostable, not compostable, but like they're
biodegradable pods.
Usually when you take these, just stick them right into whatever pot, soil or base amendment
that you're working with.
So because of that, do you prefer these or the plastic ones that you showed in the, in
the earlier, in the earlier slides?
It depends on what you're doing and how many plants you're starting.
If you're planting hundreds of plants, those pots there will take up a lot of space.
So you have to, you know, if you need to start up, you know, 800 seedlings, you can probably
only get maybe 12 of those pots in a tray.
So you know, that adds up, it can take up a lot of space and it also uses a lot of soil.
So if you're just a small home grower, yeah, like using those little pots I think is a
good way to go.
If you're doing it on a larger scale, sometimes you have to, you know, go with those 72 insert
trays.
So okay.
When I, when you, when you first like, cause I've only, I kind of like, like, I don't like
reading through everything in super big detail when it comes to some of these photos and
stuff like that.
Cause I like to, I like to enjoy as, as terrible as it sounds, it might not be the greatest
thing.
But I enjoy the journey with the people watching the show, like the, the, the different parts
that come along.
And I will just give everybody heads up.
I know I'm wearing like a jacket.
I don't, I didn't get a haircut.
It's still here.
And I do look like I'm in a different place.
I am broadcasting from Italy.
I do have to dress a little bit differently because I do get stopped by the police.
It does it when I'm in like, when I'm just in my casual like sweatpants and my, my cannabis
shirts and stuff like that.
I stick out like a sore thumb out here.
So I'm trying to like, you know, be a little bit more incognito.
And I, and we'll talk a little bit later because we've got Spanish coming up.
I'm going to be there, but this photo is absolutely gorgeous.
And, and, and one of the things that I really wanted to jump in on this is because when
we, when we did our previous video highlighting your farm and kind of the harvest area, you
had multiple plants in single pots.
Now I saw the inserts earlier with single plants in them and I see this one and I see, you
know, a pot here with multiple pots.
And by the way, amazing photography work, but you really nailed this shot.
But could you tell me about this?
Cause this is not a method where this is, this is a method that we see in a few different
regions in the world and in different practices, but it's not something that we typically see
in like in North American agriculture when it comes to, comes to methodology, but I think
it's really intelligent.
So could you tell it, talk a little bit about, about this idea, idea of using your pot with
multiple plants and that methodology?
Yeah, well, you know, I, I've been growing, you know, for over 20 years on Texada and
I always really liked to grow from seed and I was usually growing regular seed.
And so there would be males that would come up.
So a lot of the reason that I would do that is because, you know, for instance, like one
of the ways everyone used to grow on Texada is we would have a hoop, which is basically
a bale of, of Pro-Mix or a bale of peat moss with lime and manure and maybe other fertilizers.
And you know, that's a lot of, a lot of soil.
And so you want to make sure or have a pretty high percentage chance that you're going to
have a female there.
So I would take like four to six plants or seeds and put them in like a beer cup, for
instance. I mean, I slightly modify things over the, over the years, but yeah.
So if you start, if those were all regular seeds, you would have four and then you could
put that into a hoop and then chances are you would at least end up with one female
and then that one female, you know, could turn into, to a massive plant.
And it's, it's interesting because I think a lot of people are going to look at these
seedlings and just think like I'm the biggest amateur out there.
But really what I'm doing is, is quite, you know, like I'm, I've developed kind of a system
where I can do everything without lights and I can do it off the grid.
And as we go through these slides, you'll see the garden and how I do end up with big,
beautiful plants. I just, this initial stage looks...
Anybody doubts that you could watch the previous episode with Collier.
They are stunning.
Your farm is gorgeous.
The way, the way you do it is just immeasurable.
Like I really, I love your farm.
That's just having you on again and again and again.
And you can see these plants are developing along nicely.
And so this looks like it might have been transferred over into a new soil.
So how long, how long do you wait when it comes to those little pods?
What are the signs that you're looking for, for them to be transferred into its new container?
Yeah, like, like right around this stage, once they, once they're starting to put out
their, the next set of leaves, you know, like, and it depends on how big the pot is.
You know, obviously a bigger pot, you can leave them in longer.
If they're just in a tiny tray, I like to get them out pretty, pretty early.
Usually I'd probably wait a little bit longer before I transplant something like that.
But that's also like, I like to just put things in the soil because, you know, you can start them in water.
You can start them in a wet paper towel, but then I find you're just, you're handling these tiny,
sensitive little seedlings and you're ripping the roots.
And so I think it's better to just like, yeah, have them in the soil.
It's easier.
They're happier.
I mean, the best way is to just start them right in the ground, but that's not always possible.
And the other thing with that is, is that you will have a poor germination rate.
Like a lot of the seedlings will, will die.
They'll get eaten by slugs.
They'll get eaten by wood bugs, all these other things.
So even though I think that is the best way to start them is right in the ground.
You know, when we're spending a lot, when the seeds are so expensive, it doesn't really justify, justify that.
No, I want your thought on that too, on that pricing too, because you mentioned earlier, and I'm sorry if I interrupted there,
but I wanted to touch on that a little bit because you mentioned earlier about an excitasm of $1 per seed, you know, like,
like I, it just frustrates me because I look at every other industry in the world,
every other agriculture group in the world, you would never charge, you would never tax somebody a buck a seed.
Like, this is, this is insane.
Why?
Like, and so what does that, and what does that end up doing?
You have to end up charging a lot more, I imagine, because you have to compensate for that, that loss.
So what, because where do you think the market's going?
Because I mean, if they're going to make you pay $1 a seed excise tax, it's very hard for you to be maneuverable.
But if you were to look at the market as a whole, where would you want to see seeds pricing at?
Because you said that, like, like you mentioned, they're a little bit expensive.
And I believe too, right now, they're a little bit overpriced.
But it, but that doesn't mean you don't get great value for what you get.
It just means that I think in comparison to other genetics, and not other genetics, but other plant breeding and other stuff, like it's not, it doesn't make sense.
So what's your thoughts on where we'll see these dollar points get to?
Yeah, I mean, the excise tax, $1 a seed, that's a lot.
It's based on because cannabis in general is taxed at $1 a gram.
So I think the bureaucrats just figured out, well, we'll put $1 a seed tax on these seeds, which is really high.
But you know, that being said, the legal market does have competitively priced seeds and compared to where the black market seed pricing has been.
There's a lot of actually really good deals out there.
And there's a lot of really good breeders that have moved over to the legal side of things.
But yeah, it definitely affects things because that excise tax is put on before it goes to the liquor distribution board, and then they have to mark it up.
And so it kind of gets multiplied as it moves up the chain.
It's interesting.
So how much, like on average, how much do you get like per plant for seed volume?
I know we've kind of segued a little bit here, but like if you have a, this is a terribly complex question to ask.
I need to give you a lot more variables.
Maybe we'll wait till we get a little bit further into the season and we visit you again.
And we'll say like, how much do you, how many seeds would you expect a plant like that to yield?
I think we'll be a smarter movement than trying to figure out some random estimates.
So this is this photo looks like we've jumped quite a bit ahead of season.
And I love the colors and textures that we see in here.
Can you tell me about what's going on?
Yeah, so these would actually be, you know, you start the seeds in March or April.
And then, you know, I often try and transplant them into my garden in April or May.
And then these, this is probably mid to late June in the garden.
And so they grow quite a bit.
They grow really fast.
So those tiny little seedlings, you know, they turn into something like this.
And you can see underneath, I have a bunch of flowers.
I have clover.
There's some candy tuft.
And those flowers are attracting the beneficial insects that'll keep any of the bad bugs at bay.
And the clover is, of course, also a cover crop that's going to put nitrogen into the soil.
And allow me to not have to buy as much fertilizer.
I love that.
So, I mean, so you're planting out in the soil, you're using a lot of cover crops and a lot of mix of mix of biology and stuff like that.
So you're using nature to kind of create balance and create a positive environment for your plants to grow.
Are there any, is there anything else other than creating an ideal environment for these plants to thrive in a nature that's natural and has lots of variety
to it to protect them?
Like, are you foliar spraying like pesticides or anything crazy like that?
Like, do you use, is there anything that you do that during this process that's over the extra or that might be a good insurance point for people?
I'm not saying, you know, I wouldn't expect you to spray a bunch of pesticides, but maybe you're like, hey, you know, I do mistings on the regular or stuff like that.
Like, what can you suggest to keep these, because I mean, they're delicate in these earlier stages.
They can definitely get negatively affected very quickly.
And if you have like, if you have a damaged plant at this point in time, in the very early stages, it can cause long term damage.
So what do you do to like, as extra precautions to make sure that these issues don't happen?
Yeah, well, as you can see in this picture, like there's a two gallon pot and the bottom is actually cut out.
So when I put my seedlings, those delicate little seedlings out, they're going into a special mix of soil that is, you know, it has the compost.
It's not too high in fertilizer.
It might have a little bit of manure in there.
It's going to be a stronger mix than what you initially put the seeds in.
And by putting them in those little black pots, those black pots warm up the soil.
They prevent mice from coming in.
They're also a bit of a deterrent for slugs and birds.
And so it just it kind of is a nice step for them to go maybe from a greenhouse outdoors.
But now they now they have, yeah, this warm soil and nice soil.
And of course, in those garden beds, you know, I'm putting amendments like seaweed and manure.
I'm putting in alfalfa meal.
Do you have any suggested compost products that are available?
Because you're a BC grower.
I mean, you're on Texas, but like I mean, regionally, we probably have access to some of the same stuff.
Are there some compost that you like?
You mentioned sea like seaweed.
Like I know there's like that sea soil compost that's out there that seems to I enjoy it.
But but do you have any specific compost or do you like you're like, you should go to your guy down the street, make compost type of type of person?
I end up buying compost.
Usually if I'm going to buy a lot, it's always nice to start off with a buy a couple of bags and like put your hand in it and see what it's like.
And you can you can generally tell if it's good quality compost.
So it's kind of like what is available.
I've used the sea soil before.
The sea soil is a good product.
It is rather expensive.
And I found that, you know, just sometimes you can get a decent compost from like a grocery store or like a different place.
But I mean, it's nice.
You can get like it would be really nice to use the worm castings.
The worm castings are great, too.
But again, they're really expensive.
And, you know, we're trying to do things as cheaply as possible for the seedlings.
I like to use like a store bought compost just because it's it's uniform.
But then when I'm putting amendments in the actual garden beds, then that's when I can use the seaweeds and the manures and the things that are a little bit more volatile.
Nice, and again, I think it's really about creating a hardy plant throughout the process.
So may I ask, like you mentioned, there was a few that might pop, might not.
Like what kind of what kind of what's your expectation when you plant?
Because I imagine like we see a lot of these videos and I love this part because in our industry, it's very, very cool.
Like a lot of large groups will plant a lot more plants that they actually need.
And then they, you know, they cut down from there ones that are weak, ones that have any sort of issue or problem.
Any issue or a problem or problematic things going on with the specific plants, you know, so, you know, what's your process?
Do you are you trying to like keep as many plants as you want?
Are you chopping at least half of them?
What's your thought?
Well, in this garden here, I I ended up with about 450 female plants, but I started off mostly regular seeds.
So I obviously had to chop out the males.
No.
Yeah.
Are you talking to me?
Yeah, no, my little daughter.
My daughter's trying to grab a bucket of something.
I'm just like, don't you do it.
Don't do it.
No, no, no.
I knew you were talking to your daughter.
That's fine.
No.
So yeah, like, you know, obviously, yeah, I wanted to I'm doing a flower crop, so I didn't want any of those males.
So I had to chop the males.
If I see a plant that's sometimes they just get off to a slow start and they just the other plants overpower them.
And so if they're straggling, I will pull them too.
But I like to have a lot of variety.
Like I could just try and have one plant per pot, but I like to have extras because I'm always looking for those special plants.
So I like to I did a pheno hunt as well.
So I wanted to have more variety.
And you can have four like in that two gallon pot with the bottom cut out, you know, you could have four nice plants and they can all get like a quarter pound.
So you can be getting like a pound or more per per per space type of thing.
Yeah.
Awesome. So I see here blue.
Is that what are the blue flowers that I see floating there?
And I forgot the name of this plant.
I think, you know, I've got a lot of flowers in there.
I think those are called bluebells, but I could be wrong.
Yeah, I was assuming that they were bluebells too.
I'm like, but I don't want to say bluebells because they might be wrong.
I think with the cumulatively together, we might we might be right or completely wrong together, whatever.
But I love I love Landshark Genetics little little little comment here.
Garden of Eden tech creating perfect environment to create perfect prospering.
Now, that's that's a pretty good success rate.
Are you so so I mean, sorry, my little one was being a little bit loud there in the back and I missed it.
But you were you were saying that you you get mostly females.
So you're planting regular genetics like regular as in male and female and not feminized beans.
Yeah, I mean, I did both.
I did some feminized seeds.
I did some regular, but I tried probably 20 to 30 different strains or varieties.
Some of those were available feminized and some of those were regular.
Most of them were regular.
And I've been growing regular seeds for a long time.
So I mostly grew regular.
And yeah, just out of the simplicity of it and the abundance.
Yeah. So those are my that's my sister who is probably like she's she's growing something herself there, too.
Yeah, she's probably about five or six months pregnant there.
And that's her partner and my business partner, Jeff.
Yeah. And so that's a good shot of just that's probably again in June when all the plants are just coming up.
It looks like there's a lot of weeds.
But, you know, those weeds are actually intentionally planted.
They're the clovers.
There's the flowers that are attracting all these bugs, like the beneficial bugs to keep.
You know, if we did end up with some spider mites or aphids, they'll keep those bugs at bay.
Yeah. And there's just like, you know, you can go kind of back and forth from the one to the other and see.
That's probably like late July, I'm guessing.
Yeah. So from that to that, you definitely can't fit the people.
They wouldn't be visible. It's like they're still there, but they're gone because they're behind the weeds.
Well, I think on the next one, actually, we do have a shot where where there is some people.
Yeah. And that's even again a little bit later when when the buds have grown out significantly more.
There we go. Now we're getting into the getting into the development and the change and growth of it.
Yeah. So what genetic is this?
If it's genetic or what plant is this or strain or cultivar or whatever your choice of words are for this specific, because that is one beautifully frosty plant.
Yeah. Yeah. That's a cross that I did.
I had had some Cush Van Stitch seeds that I'd had from years before, and I crossed it to to a local hero on the island called the Sweet Texada Lavender.
And yeah, they just ended up producing some really beautiful purple flowers.
And yeah, really, really, really beautiful plants.
Yeah. Yeah.
And here's the picture in the middle, I think, on that last one there is, you know, it's a friend of mine's balcony.
And they just you know, because often people think, oh, well, where am I going to grow a plant?
You know, and so they have like a 10 gallon pot on their balcony.
It doesn't get the best light.
It does get a it probably gets like good three, four hours of direct light every every day.
But yeah, that's just something you can do on your on your balcony right in in Vancouver.
Right. That's pretty glorious for a balcony.
And it doesn't even look like it's getting full light.
Like, I mean, that's a glorious looking plant for just throwing it in a 10 gallon pot on my deck.
Yeah, exactly.
And they're they're no experts, but they were able to to grow that and it turned out really well.
So that's an example, you know, like not everyone has a backyard, not everyone has, you know, acreage.
But if you have a balcony, yeah, you can just grow like a little plant like that.
This is looking later into the season for sure.
Yeah. What do we have going on here?
This this is this is probably like some of the diesel riders, sugar diesel seeds.
They're they often will finish late August, early September.
So, yeah, it's beautiful weather.
And this is the thing is that, you know, we we really want to minimize our environmental impact.
But if you can grow this dynamite flower outdoors, it's it's a great way to get some of that
it's essentially carbon neutral cannabis.
So, yeah, and it's it's super high quality.
It's got great terpenes.
It's potent. Yeah.
And it is a second, I want to back up one more because is this the same cultivars before?
Is this a little bit different?
I would probably be a slightly different one.
This is actually some that's a picture from the same garden, but a couple of years prior.
But I just wanted to put that in because that one year it was such a beautiful garden.
I had the sunflowers growing in the background and and I had some really dynamite plants that I was growing.
And so I just I really think that's just a nice picture.
Is it beautifully presented picture like it's very nice so we can see here what is this?
This is our our list of what's available and where people can get it.
Is that what I'm? Yeah, I mean, that's like the biggest question we're getting now is people are like, oh, I want to get these seeds.
Where can I get them?
And or I want to try some of your pre-rolls.
And as you can see, it's pretty complex.
Like this isn't we people can't just order off our website.
We can't just send it to them.
So this is on our website.
So easy, though, you know, like it's almost like that would totally make sense to, you know, as as like a way for you guys to like make money.
But like, unfortunately, you know, the government makes it easy.
But, you know, but sorry.
Yeah, so I mean, if you go to our website, there's a page where to buy and it just has all our seeds and which provinces they're available in.
We're now getting some of our seeds through herbal dispatch for medical patients.
So if you want to order them direct from herbal dispatch anywhere in Canada, you can.
And then otherwise you can if you happen to be in a province, you can either order them online or go to a retail store.
And as always, I'm always going to say this to everybody and every time we do one of these shows, especially if you're in well, 100 percent if you're in Canada.
If you're a Canadian breeder or you're doing the Canadian thing, I got to do this.
If you are walking around and you enjoyed the show, it resonated with you.
Collier has resonated with you.
Any of this resonated with you and you walk by a dispensary, you walk in that and you make sure they have some weathered island cannabis products.
And if they don't, you make sure that they requested and bring that stuff in so that we can so that we can support our community and the people taking their time out of their day to educate and support the community.
Because, you know, Collier doesn't do this.
This isn't free.
This is free.
This is his time that he's giving to us to try to support.
So like if you can't support him as well.
Now, the next page there is pretty important on where people can get in touch with you.
I'm going to save that for the end of the episode.
But I would like to open up because you have a beautiful short little video that you've shared with me as well.
And if I just get two seconds to open it up here, we'll have a little look at that.
Bear with me, everybody.
New laptop, so I'm struggling a little bit here.
And I have it in.
And there we go.
So.
So what are we looking at?
What are we looking at here?
I said, nice little bee.
This looks like clover.
Acilium.
Am I seeing there too?
Alyssum?
Alyssum.
Yeah.
Look at the beautiful slow-mo.
Oh, my.
Yeah, it just you know, this is what's going on in the soil, right?
We have this whole living environment.
The bees are just going crazy.
And then it kind of like goes up and you can see there's there are the plants, right?
But what's going on underneath the plants is really important.
And yeah, we have that alyssum, we have the clover.
There's a whole bunch of other beneficial plants below.
And yeah, I just it's just nice to see that in a garden.
And great slow-mo.
Like you've seen that bee doing a little wiggle there.
I love that.
That looks so cool.
Awesome.
Nature is a bit inspiring sometimes, isn't it?
Now, one thing that we really wanted to dig into and talk about this episode, we won't be running quite as long, everybody.
This is a heads up because we have some other things on the go.
But I wanted to jump into...
...climate greenhouse of pot indoors.
Okay, I wanted to really dig into the indoor growing a little bit, you know, and carbon, this carbon issue that we're talking about.
Now, one thing we all want to do is be better and more humble and take care of our environment in a better way.
And to do this, we need to really start evaluating how we interact with our environment, whether it be, you know, very, very simple methodologies of, you know, really having a look at what you're purchasing and seeing where it comes from and whether or not they represent the businesses and methodologies that you'd like.
But one of the other things that we see is the indoor growing.
Now, I know I have indoor growers on here, and I know there are...I would prefer everybody in the world to be growing than for only specific people to have access to be able to grow.
And if you have a very small space, I totally understand.
But if you can, you know, do everything outdoor and appropriately, I think it's the best way to go.
So what's your thought?
I mean, you have clearly dug into regenerative methodologies.
You've clearly, you know, thought and put a lot of purpose and planning in your actions and what you do.
You just...I mean, you decided not to buy artificial lighting to support your plants in these early stages.
You decided to do these things that, you know, may produce a better product, may produce some further challenges.
I'm sure it's a whole lot more work having to go outside and bring those in and out every day than leaving them in a room with a light on and a switch.
So, you know, what's your thoughts on that?
And what are the challenges that we're going to face if we continue down this road that you think we're going to face if we continue down this road of indoor, you know, salt-based manufacturing of a plant, you know?
Yeah, well, you know, we have, you know, there's been some amazing indoor cannabis grown and like...
And honestly, like you can't recreate indoor, outdoor.
Like, you can take the exact same plant and grow it in the same mix.
And if it's under lights versus outdoors, it's going to be different.
So there's a real beautiful thing about indoor.
But, you know, we also have to look at, you know, at our industry as a whole and go, OK, well, you know, how can we make things better?
And, you know, that one article that I shared with you, I believe they say it's anywhere from six to twelve gallons of gas to produce one ounce of cannabis, like the equivalent in energy.
And of course, it depends on where you're growing.
Like if you're in B.C. versus Alberta, like we get a lot of our electricity from hydro dams.
Alberta is more from fossil fuels.
So, but, you know, then comes the problem.
Well, can you produce this high quality cannabis outdoors?
I believe you can.
And but also like even if you are indoors, I mean, what can you do to minimize the impact?
I mean, there's LED lights, there's growing and living soil.
I know we actually are bringing out some pineapple sorbet from Rocky Mountain Farms and they're growing under LEDs and they're doing living soil organic.
So, you know, I don't think that the indoor is going to disappear, but I think that there's ways that the indoor can minimize its environmental impact.
At the same time, I think, yeah, if you can grow at home, that is the most eco friendly way to grow.
And then if you do have to buy from a store, you know, give those outdoor or greenhouse.
Like a closer, closer look, because there is a lot of benefits and that's like also like the terpene development tends to be more.
They're more expressive, there's more more variety of terpenes with outdoor living soil.
So there's a lot of benefits to doing this.
And this study here, you know, they they really dive in.
This is a pretty, pretty big article just talking about like the huge amount of energy that goes into these indoor cannabis facilities.
Like when you're looking at six gallons of gas for one ounce of of cannabis, I mean, that's that's that's it's shocking.
It's like and even when I say it, I just I can't even believe it.
But there's the study right there.
So by switching to outdoor, we can.
I do love this and I want to put digging in that for a second just because I think we need to highlight a point there.
This is I've just linked it as well, and I will put it in the comment section below for those that aren't watching on live chat.
They will add this into the base comments because it's also the link is a little bit long, but you can actually have the article with the analysis of the paper that have links to the paper.
Like that, this is scientifically validated information.
So it's as simple as planting indoor outdoor, whether or not you're spending six gallons of gas, you know, like that's it's that easy.
Right. And when we're looking at the world as it is right now, we need to make decisions that help us for it.
Sorry to cut you off there.
Yeah, no problem.
And what this what we're seeing on the screen right now is kind of saying, well, it's not it's not just six gallons.
Depending on where you are, it can go up over 10 gallons because some places, 10 gallons of gas to grow one ounce.
Because, you know, like in the middle of the US, for instance, you might have to heat your room.
So you're heating it, you're cooling it.
And the the hydro might be coming from coal.
So it's it is.
So there is a better way and hopefully that we can slowly transition our industry over to a more environmentally friendly mode of production.
It's necessary for us to move forward as a community and culture to like look at everything that we're doing and stepping into it.
So this is a lot of the methodology and planning of why you've decided to go with method and thought process of of yourself.
Like so when did when did is this something that's kind of fallen into the process or when you decided to begin and jump into the legal cannabis space here in Canada?
Was this something that you wanted to ensure with part of the platform and base of what you're doing?
You wanted to make sure that was at the core.
Was it just like you decided to look around, look at that and go, I need to if I'm going to long term produce in this in a market where, you know, cannabis is not going to be able to be produced at three to
four dollars a gram and be able to make any sort of profit margin.
Is that why?
Well, I mean, I've been on Texas Island 25 years.
I've never really been much of an indoor grower.
I've always been growing outdoors, so I had an opportunity to grow outdoor.
And, you know, we've always kind of been growing like organically and and living soil and all that.
But really, you know, so I it wasn't like I said, well, I'm going to it.
It wasn't necessarily my intention to be.
You know, be like, oh, we're going to do this like super eco friendly cannabis, but as as the legal market has has come come about.
Suddenly I realized, well, what what differentiates us from the others and like what are we doing that special?
And I realized, like all these things that we're doing are actually pretty cutting edge, you know, like that little that little seed tray that you saw in the snow.
You know, some people might think that looks really hokey, but in a sense like that, how much energy have we saved by by doing that?
And so it's actually very cutting edge.
Like what you know, seeing those like flowers in the in the garden and the bees and all that stuff, it seems very, you know, just too simple.
But it's actually fairly cutting edge.
And, you know, like a lot of like a lot of people figure you can't really grow that high quality cannabis outdoors.
But I mean, we on Texeda, we've been really pushing that for a long time.
We've developed some amazing strains like the Texeda Time Warp, the Apricot Kush, Purple Papaya.
And they're changing people's minds slowly that, you know, yes, you can grow dynamite flower outdoors.
And that being said, you know, I'm not I don't want this conversation to come off like we're saying that you should grow indoors and that we should eliminate like still being put in an action thing here.
This is kind of data is something that that big corporations could use to to say, hey, you're not allowed to do a grow because it creates a carbon emission problem.
But it's also the same data that we can use to to to show the government and say, hey, these guys are being wasteful and destructive and they're not producing what they want.
And the fact is, is that we know and we are over at I mean, our home base, like I'm in Italy right now, but our home base and in my usual home base in DC, Canada.
But the Future Cannabis Project started in California, where some of the outdoor grower where the outdoor growers using regenerative practices are leaving the world in quality, flavor and unique cultivars.
And I mean, you're you're you're definitely you're a huge part in leading the Canadian space as well.
There you get better flower.
No, it's it's interesting.
And we really need to look at these things and have a good view.
I love the idea like Dennis here.
He's talked about using CO2.
I'm a science geek.
We do many different episodes.
We did an episode last week that was two weeks ago that was entirely aeroponic.
This massive facility is on these very unique aeroponic machines where they're doing all these complex steps and extra things to really create a very, very controlled environment with a very, very controlled methodology where they can track and trace every little bit involved.
You know, and I think those are those still need to exist in our world.
There is there's there's those things can create tools and benefits to our community as a whole, but they don't necessarily need to be in every corner of the world.
Like we don't need it.
All the cannabis in the world doesn't need to be produced indoors.
This is not necessary, but a good part.
But some of it could be and some of it maybe should be, you know, depending on the cultivar.
Some of them are much, much better produced indoors.
What's the best type of clay amending for your soilist mediums that you like to use, Collier?
And then I'm going to say we have about 13 minutes left in our show.
We'll be going a little bit shorter today, but if anybody has any questions, I'm going to ask you to throw them out there now.
Again, we're visiting Collier from Weathered Island Craft Cannabis.
We're talking about him and his regenerative methodology and Tixada Time War on Tixada Island.
And we will be checking in with him throughout the year.
We've also got a few other, I saw Barishna in the chat earlier and a couple other outdoor farms that are doing this kind of like I'm going to grow outdoor and do that style of production that we are going to check out as well.
So we'll be able to see a few different methodologies, a few different plans.
But like what type of clay amendments are you using in your mediums or amending your soilist mediums?
That's interesting. Clay, calcium clay.
So maybe in you, do you use any clay amendments in your mediums?
I'm not adding any clay to my soil.
There's naturally occurring, like in my garden there, there's naturally occurring clay in the soil.
Not a lot, but what I need to amend it with is peat moss, actually, because it doesn't have the water holding capacity that I want it to.
So I would actually like to either use some cocoa coir or peat moss and just try and build up the water holding capacity.
So, yeah, I'm not using any clay as an amendment.
And then so one of the other things that I really wanted to talk about as well, and that's a big challenge in the space.
Dennis, reach out to me and I actually have a guy that does CO2 stuff, so I can ask him and figure that out.
But what do you think about, like there's been a lot of feedback and a lot of fight with this Ontario market.
You know, we're doing OK in BC, we run into our own challenges.
We are a small market in comparison.
Like if you took the entire region of BC, it's like it's like the population of frickin' Alaska or something.
It's very small.
And Alaska might be a little bit sarcastic and extremist, but it's not a large region.
It is a large space region.
It's not a large region of people.
I mean, we have in Canada, Canada's entire population fits into California alone.
So it's a very small region when it comes down to it.
And one of our largest regions in Canada, the biggest one that we have and with the highest volume of growth, our New York region of Canada is Southern Ontario.
And Ontario, right, it's that area where we have the largest population, the largest amount of products coming in and out of the space.
So what do you think?
What can we do there to ensure that we have the best opportunity possible?
And then what are the challenges that you're facing that market?
And lastly, where can we find and support you?
Because we are running a little bit tight on time here.
We don't have much longer.
So I wanted to I want to get those two, that first one out of the way and then we'll do the goodbye.
Yeah, well, with Ontario right now and across Canada, really, what's happening is there's this pay to play thing going on, which was never like there's actually laws that say you can't pay to put your cannabis in the stores.
But there's been a workaround.
There's a loophole.
They're called data deals, and it allows these, you know, a lot of a lot of the bigger companies are able to pay to put their products into these larger chains.
And it's what's happened is, is because some started doing it, then it's like, well, then everyone has to do it.
And because if you don't do it, then you're kind of left behind.
So the whole pay to play thing really needs to end.
It's it's definitely something that is helping the bigger companies squeeze out the little guys.
And there is a way to pay work.
Are they paying to be on the shelf or are they paying for data?
Or are they paying for like what?
What are exactly are they paying to play?
So they'll so a large LP, for instance, can go to a chain that potentially has 20 stores and they'll say, we want you to get these 10.
We want you to have these 10 products in all your stores.
We want you to buy a lot of them.
So they can't actually give them money for that.
But what they can do is they'll say, OK, well, we'll buy this data off of you like your consumer data.
So essentially, they'll say, OK, well, we'll give you a million dollars to buy all this data.
And and then the retail chain says, OK, well, we'll buy these 10 different products and we'll put them in all of our 20 stores.
So it's a loophole that and the problem with it is, is that it's hard.
That it's hard for the independent retailers because a single store isn't getting these type of data deals.
And it's hard for the independent producer because we don't have the type of of quantity or the money to be able to do those data deals.
And so it's squeezing out the independent retailers and it's squeezing out the independent producers or the smaller producers.
And it's just kind of like a snowballing effect that's just getting worse and worse and worse.
And in the end, where the consumer is getting less products and they're getting less options.
So that's not a good thing.
So that it would be nice if we could end that.
And there are the rules in place.
They just need to be enforced.
The other issue with Ontario is they.
That there is a lot of taxation, but also they are bringing in programs like flow through, which really tend to favor the larger producers.
Again, flow through is a system where every week you have to send OCS products and it has to be delivered on a pallet.
So if you get an order for six cases, you have to ship it from BC all the way to Ontario on a pallet.
Well, that shipping cost costs $1,200.
And you're only getting like $800 for the order.
So a bunch of smaller producers are shipping product to Ontario and they're losing money every single shipment.
So that's so wait, the six cases is how many like is $800 worth of product, right?
Well, it depends on the product.
Like sometimes it could be worth $600.
Sometimes it could be worth $2,400.
You know, sometimes it might be two cases.
But in general, that's not that's whole.
That's is that is that like what the end user is going to pay?
That's what the value of the end user is?
Or is that like is that what you're is that what like because that's that's not net, right?
That's not your net profit on on those cases is $800.
It's less, right?
Well, like so as essentially that's what it gets sold to the provincial distribution board at.
So if you send and like I said, it could be one case, you could get an order for one case and you have to ship one case on a pallet to Ontario.
Yeah, and that case could be orders less than the pallet cost.
This is insane.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And now like with a smaller producer, it's difficult because we don't have as many, you know, like like with a bigger one, they can put multiple orders on the same pallet.
But for a smaller producer, you might only have one order.
And if you only get one case or six cases, or even 10 or 12, you're still losing money every time you ship that out.
So the flow through has definitely been a system that's helping the bigger companies and it's hurting the smaller guys.
And why would the consumers care?
Because you're getting less options, right?
The consumer is grabbing your options.
They're getting grab your eyes.
I get in the great stuff.
I'll say you don't have to say that I'll do it for you.
It's crap.
Like some of this stuff that's coming out.
I've seen inside of these facilities.
I've seen how they care for their stuff.
I have friends that work at their spaces.
I have people that send me photos of these large farms.
And I can tell you with great confidence that the care that they put into those plants is not appropriate.
And what's going into those products is not OK.
This flow through model was supposed to be the saving grace for small producers.
And the fact that it's favoring large producers is just fucked up.
It's totally wrong.
And it's not OK.
Now, leaving off on that high note, which we need to fix, by the way, people, we need to all of us work together to do
these things because we haven't we haven't written the laws properly or finished writing them in Canada.
Yeah, I think I think we need to keep going and changing things.
But that's challenging thing.
So I know you have to get going.
So I'm going to cut this short here.
But we have to do one very important task before I roll our credits.
And you know what that very important task is, is we got to know how we can support you and how we can come check you out and what we can do to to support whether or not we can do this in yourself.
And also, I guess, Atlas Seeds as well, because they're a partner of yours, too.
Now, so where can like how can we support you?
Well, you can go to our website and go to the where to buy page and that'll show you where all of our products are across all of Canada.
And that's that's the best thing that you can do.
But also, you know, go to our Twitter page, go to our Instagram, check me out on Twitter or LinkedIn.
I always like connecting with people.
I'm happy to answer questions.
If you've got grow questions, growing questions, that sort of thing.
Yeah, just reach out.
Hell, yeah, man, and thank you again for coming in and kicking it for me for a little over an hour and talking about these things.
I'm sure we're going to hear because we like to have a lot of the BC farmers on our
area and hear a lot more about this challenge that they're facing with these
flow through models and these silly little ideas.
I want to thank you again for just being you, putting out great product, caring about what you do.
And of course, coming to share a little bit of time with me here on Cannabis for Breakfast.
So thanks again, Collier.
Thank you, London. It's always fun.
And we'll keep in touch and hopefully we'll see you in the summer.
Appreciate it.
