If you're in the game now, you started in a closet. Yeah. You had to start. Tell me you know what diamond lights are.
Yeah, yeah, diamond lights. Yeah, yeah. DLS. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh my god. I threw away 35 of these two months ago. How did I find 10 more? Yeah, no. And so if you don't,
if you don't catch that this is what it was, and then you, you just don't, you don't understand
if you were a general hydro or A&B. Exactly. You pick, you pick, you pick the two.
And, and, and they like GH because my, my workers that like to party too much
couldn't read the labels because the vision was blurry, but they could, they could tell that
there was a pink, a green, and a red. And I mean that was some really simple stuff. And it was
designed for people and then, and then for me I got into doing a lot of work for large, I used to
run large diesel operations. And so most, most of the, the, we in Humboldt was all diesel driven.
And so I would come into these massive diesel operations, no Humboldt County,
straight in Humboldt up in Blocksburg, Alder Point, Salmon Creek. And so these were all, you know,
two, three hundred, four hundred, up to four hundred light operations that were black market diesel
driven. But I would come in to put in all new operational systems so they could remove workers
because fundamentally there was families that ran the projects and it was always workers that came
in that caused problems because you, and you got to hire workers to come in to do leaf and work and
water. So I would put in automated systems that would allow these guys to be able to turn valves
and flood hole runs. And then I was working on R&D. I had, so right around 96 when computers
first really started being used heavily by people, I was able to get a hold of a old Pentium 9, a
Pentium 75. And I did, I went took an adult ed class on spreadsheets so I could learn how to use
a computer so I could do spreadsheets because I had so many black market operations running that
I realized that I could start isolating variables. And so I started isolating variables to find how
do we get into two plus pounds of bulbs? At the time a pound of bulb was astronomical. Well, I
was blown by a deuce because I started finding the combination of factors that let me do it.
And then I had the varietals that achieved it. And so all these other operators that were big
would say, hey, if you come in, we're going to give you X amount per light if you can get us
into these numbers. And I would need my own cultivar base to provide it. So I started providing
cultivars to these large diesel operations. And the next thing you know, I'm spending way more
time doing nursery operations for all these massive diesel guys because they were the best
clients you've ever seen in your life because they were as pro as anybody's ever been where you had
four 60-day cycles that had to run from as soon as it rained, you turn the diesels on because it
could mask the sound of the generator, even though it was all subterranean and buried and
ventilated systems, they were cautious. And so as soon as it rained, you'd have sound cover and
fog cover to cover up the waste gas coming out of the jennies and the sound from the jennies.
And then as soon as it warmed up and the helicopters came, you chopped it. So you had four
60-day cycles and these guys would lay out their calendar and you could literally deliver the 3,000
cuts to each one of them on that date. There was no deviation. Yeah, campers show up. And this was
when all outdoor wasn't even Humboldt. Humboldt got wiped out outdoor. Then Gallegos, the DA comes in early
2000s and says, look, 99 is something I'll work with. That's when everybody started pioneering
the 14-pound plants. So we went from doing indoor work that I was involved in. Then I started doing
developmental work on cultivars that had the framework to go big enough. So I remember when
Blue Dream was only run indoor. I still know the first guy at Humboldt that ran it outdoor and he
came and said, Kev, I got 11 pounds off my weed. And we were like, 11 pounds? And he's like, bro,
I got 11 pounds. And so the next year we're all running Blue Dream. And we're all running Blue Dream.
