All right, so we are live and Dave just ran off camera to smoke.
But Mike, you are currently down in Mexico.
And what are you smoking right now?
Yeah, I just I've been down here for three months.
I had only planned I think on a month and a half.
And I brought some stash with me.
I mean, and it ran out.
And so I've been smoking this Mexican weed and it's just horrible, you know.
I don't understand that.
I mean, these Mexicans are good farmers.
You know, they taught us a lot.
So why can't they have any good weed?
I mean, maybe they do somewhere, but not here.
And the other thing that's kind of funny is that even here it's controlled by the cartel.
They sell it to you in this little plastic bag and it's got like this black spider on
it that shows that, you know, where its origin was, you know.
And so people tell me, oh, yeah, if the cops come in and they find you got weed and you
got one of those bags, no problem.
You know, they leave you alone.
Even though it's legal down here, they still like to hassle you, I guess.
But that's Mexican weed.
So no growing?
Well, no, you can grow.
It's kind of like California, United States, you can grow a certain amount of plants yourself.
And some of the gringos do.
But I don't know.
I mean, I've been acclimatized to that super weed we have in California.
And I just have a hard time smoking anything else.
I think that's what it is.
And you had mentioned you've been into dry sift a lot recently, right?
Yeah, that's my favorite.
Now, David is my dry sift partner over there.
We've making some really good sift.
That's just what I was doing smoking.
No, the dry sift is old world techniques with new world science and all the experience that
Mike and I have of 50 years of drug passion.
Really, I mean, I've done a lot of drug smuggling and everything else.
But mainly, and the reason I even started and all that is because I love pot.
I always have, you know, and it helped with a lot of other things too.
But I still have a passion for pot and cannabis and all the products that we get from it.
It's amazing.
I've never had anything to do with drugs, man.
Never in my life.
It's not a drug as far as I'm concerned.
However you want to label it, it's there, mister.
So I just want to quickly introduce you guys to, and I don't know where to point, to this
guy.
This is Dave, who's also in Cali.
But he was the guy who gently kicked me in the butt to get you guys to come tell your
stories.
So.
Okay.
So where are you at, Dave?
I'm in San Gabriel Valley area.
Did you grow up with the drug culture?
How'd you grow up with that stuff?
What do you think?
My dad, you could say, was the distributor for the Brotherhood and all his buddies.
Uh-huh.
I hate Ashberry, Monterey, pot festival type individuals.
Oh boy.
So I've been around it my entire life, either inhaling it purposely or not on purposely
my entire life.
That's just like my kids.
So I guess I'm a little-
Dave will probably know some of the guys.
Possibly, because my dad's in your guys' age realm.
No I didn't know his name.
No, I'm just saying he's within your guys' age area.
Oh yeah.
My dad's 78.
Yeah.
Yeah, I'm 71.
But I dealt with those guys in Laguna and I did work down with some of those guys in
that back in the, you know, back in the early seventies and all that when it was still going
on.
Yeah, I think like 73, 74, they kind of went on their own way.
Some guys went to Lake Arrowhead and Idyllwild and Temecula and Rainbow.
And that's kind of what I can remember as a kid going to the houses and observing all
kinds of fun stuff.
Yeah, I went to Idyllwild.
I lived up there.
I used to bring, uh, I started in the seventies and like 71 in the summer, I moved to Pine
Cove and I used to get cars.
I'd pick them up in National City.
They'd be loaded with Mexican weed and we'd bring them up to Pine Cove and unload them.
It'd be hidden in the wheel wells.
They'd be 80, 83 kilos of car.
So we started out with one car, made it to two.
Then we do two cars twice a week.
And that would be, we made about, I don't know, probably around 3000 pounds in the summer
of 71.
And we loaded most of it all went up there to Idyllwild.
And then I actually took one car to Woodland Drive in Laguna Beach and down there, we unloaded
the car on Woodland Drive and took the weed out and sold it there.
And I drove off.
That sounds familiar.
Same neighborhood.
Yeah, I mean, seventh degree of separation.
I'm sure you guys probably had crossed paths back in the day.
Yeah.
Well, everybody rubs shoulders.
It's like if you looked on Facebook, how many people you know that knows who?
Yeah.
Same thing.
How many of you guys aren't even on that are still tied into this network as well?
And we were all selling the same stuff too then.
Yeah.
And I remember when I was in the seventies, I was in the seventies.
I was in the seventies.
I was in the seventies.
I was in the seventies.
I was in the seventies.
I was in the seventies.
I was in the seventies.
like a, he got his first weed in high school, which was I think 66, 67, and they would drive
down and buy it.
And the big deal was going from sesamelia to sensimelia.
And then they had all these different flavored things.
They try to give you sugar weed and they were selling it in cans.
They were selling cans and whatnot like that.
Yeah.
There was some real crap back in the day.
I'm glad.
I guess it was, Mike probably can vouch for this,
that earlier on it was a lot easier to get stuff across
until they started figuring out what you guys were doing.
But my dad was telling me they would just fly right
into LAX with suitcases full of stuff.
Get right in the car and go.
Yeah.
Like maybe 371-ish, 72.
Mid-60s, they weren't really checking stuff.
I had 11 runners from Nepal make it
through San Francisco in 1975.
In the three-month period, every one of them made it.
Five kilos each of hash oil.
Oh, hash oil, yeah.
Why don't we, Mike, to give people context,
do you want to just quickly say when you first
crossed paths with Mark and Dave and kind
of some of the early connection?
Yeah.
I should give a bit of background.
Let me say that I was born in 1948.
I'm not going to say how old I am.
And when I went to college or high school,
we were introduced to Mexican weed.
And that's all we had.
We thought it was pretty good stuff.
But when hash came in, that really
opened my eyes to what cannabis, good cannabis
smoking could be.
And so we went after the hash.
I went through Afghanistan and Asia in 1968
and just had my first glimpse of Thailand in 68.
And then in the early 70s, I got back there again.
And then by 75, I was interested in doing business in Thai weed.
And I think it was about that time that I met Mark.
Actually, I met him a little earlier in Bali.
We were both chasing waves down there.
Dave, I didn't meet till many years later
after I was already in the business,
sending weed back to California.
And Dave was one of the big names.
Oh, he was one of the big offloaders
and the big distributors on the West Coast.
So if you got your weed today, you'd
get your money back from Dave.
But a little bit about Thai weed,
the first time I saw Thai weed, I didn't believe it,
that weed could be so good.
We had been dealing in hash and hash oil.
But Afghanistan closed to foreigners,
I think it was about, golly, in 72 or something.
When was it?
74.
So that business shut down.
And then that's when we got to Thailand
and started seeing the Thai weed.
And it was on sticks at that time.
That's all we saw was Thai weed on sticks.
None of us had any idea about, particularly me,
no idea about strains or growing techniques or any of that.
It was just, was it good weed or was it bad weed?
And Thai weed was super good.
I think the test was this.
Did it smell good?
If you took a piece of it and stuck it on the wall,
did it stay there?
And did it smoke good?
And Thai weed had all those aspects.
There was other things that I think that were characteristic
of Thai weed that we noticed was different colors.
I didn't pay too much attention to it,
but there was gold-colored weed.
And there was some jungle green, I would call it.
And there was some light green.
And that's what I noticed back then.
Mark, do you want to say something about that?
Yeah, the first Thai weed that I came across,
of course, it was on the stick, right?
The Thai stick, and they called it the golden Buddha, right?
And later on it became, I think in Hawaii,
it became elephant weed and whatever.
But it was definitely golden, real golden and sticky.
It wasn't a dry golden weed.
It was a sticky golden weed.
And then later on, I noticed more strains
of maybe a little lighter stuff.
But every once in a while, when our suppliers would run out,
it was hard, after a while, after it became kind of popular
and more people were coming over
to get involved in the trade,
the supplies started to thin out a bit
every once in a while during seasons.
You really had to get your orders in.
But yeah, they tried to sneak in some crappy weed
every once in a while, which sometimes it fell for it.
Sometimes it didn't.
But a lot of stuff came from that I noticed it wasn't.
So that grape was from down South, closer to Malaysia,
the Hue Hin area.
And the Thai sticks would be fatter and darker green
and kind of wrapped with a fishing line, not monofilament,
but kind of that braided type of real fine fishing,
dark green fishing line.
But as far as the strains go,
those are the only ones I saw.
And occasionally you'd get a seed
that would come out of your big bricks
of bundles of those little 20 stick packs of weed.
And then they'd come in the big,
what'd they call them, the tombs, Mike?
The kilo kind of stuff?
Yeah, they called it a tomb.
But a tomb was just a bag.
It was a bag of weed, you know, like it was what it was.
And the small ones were a barge.
They called the barge,
the small ones, they called them a barge.
Okay, I didn't know that.
You know, it was not, none of us really went to the field.
I mean, maybe we went once or twice to see weed growing,
but you really couldn't do that
because it would be obvious what you were doing there.
So we dealt through brokers, through Thais,
and they would do, you know,
they would source the weed for you.
And so, like I said, we basically took what we got
and hoped that we would get good weed.
And at first, and when I say at first,
in the early 70s, let's say, through 75,
it was almost all good.
And there was not that much traffic in it,
not that many people were dealing it.
But as Mark said, as more and more people got involved
in the trade, and as the loads got bigger and bigger,
definitely the quality of the weed went down
because so many people were,
so many Thais were trying to jump in themselves
and make money.
And it was about that time that they stopped,
or a little bit later, that they stopped tying
the Thai cannabis onto sticks, and we got the bud.
And that was pretty good for a while too,
but it was always a battle.
Quality control was always a battle over there.
I think one of the sad things that I saw over there
is often you would get some really good weed,
really good weed, and perhaps it hadn't been dried
or cured properly, or it had been stored too long,
and it would get this ammonia smell,
and it would just ruin it.
It would still smoke pretty good,
you'd still get high on it, but it had a horrible smell.
So rather than looking for strains,
I think we were always just trying to do quality control
and make sure that it had been dried and cured properly,
and then packaged properly.
And that was basically what my job was over there.
As far as visiting, like Mike said,
visiting a field wasn't a real good idea.
I did that one time with Mike and my,
the guy that we went through.
He took me to a field, and it was a lot of driving
and laying on the floorboard of the car,
covered up with blankets and checkpoints after,
oh, you know, a couple hours of doing that.
And getting to the place we had, I mean,
bumpy roads and all that,
and finally getting to where we had to go,
and then unveiling me and taking me out of the car.
And I looked around, it was like, so where are the fields?
And here it is, and it was just, just so much fun.
It just went on, it seemed like forever.
And there were big, tall plants, you know.
There were ladies in the little shacks
sitting down in those little bamboo thatched roof thing,
tying the little stuff on sticks.
It was all being put together right there.
It was pretty interesting.
But then after spending time there,
I had to go back, of course.
So we went back.
Somehow they had found out about it,
and they went back and burnt that whole area down.
So bringing in a farm wasn't a good idea.
I shouldn't have, you know, I kind of wanted to see it,
and they kind of said, okay, and so.
It wasn't a good idea.
And if you look at it in a business-wise thing,
that if they really wanted to burn you,
they could show you whatever they wanted
and switch it later.
So it got to be to where you had to deal with people
that you trusted.
Same as on the back end, because when I got over here,
see, I had to go through all the weed.
And my first one that I ever did, I did a boat in 1977,
and we got 3,000 pounds.
Well, we're supposed to get 3,500 pounds
on the way down from the hills.
The truck got busted.
They took 700 or 650 pounds.
So we got 2,850 pounds.
So I went through the whole thing.
It came in in 40-pound, 10-metal, sheet metal,
10 cans that were 40 pounds.
You know, it said Far East Metalworks on it.
I had to cut those things up by hand and everything.
And the weed had different grades.
It was all real good.
Some of it had molded in that,
but it, you know, we had different colors and shapes
and all that with being in.
After I did a lot of loads and looked at a lot of things,
there's gonna be, you know, probably you're gonna get,
you get a load in, 20% is gonna be top grade.
Then you're gonna get your middle grades,
and then you're gonna have about 15% that's stinker-roos,
that you're gonna have to, you know,
sell for a lower price and do that,
because nobody's gonna do it all.
You know, you can't get a whole load that's,
they're gonna sell part of it that's not quite as good.
Wow.
It used to be all real good in the beginning.
It used to be authentic, like Mike was saying,
as more people got there, then it got to be,
you got what you got, kind of a thing.
In the last year that I worked in 87,
I uploaded 26 tons of Thai weed.
I did seven tons and a six tons,
and a 10 tons and a five tons, four nights.
We went through, I had a whole crew.
We went through every pound,
and we looked through,
because they were sealed in packages,
you get see-through.
And the last one that I did,
I actually made a deal with the guy,
because he was real, wasn't real savvy.
And I told him, I said, okay, to do this deal,
the only one I'm gonna do it, I'm gonna take 20%.
What I'm gonna pick, I'm gonna cherry pick, right?
And so that 20%, I got 28% of the gross dollars.
I got all the best weed, and it's 28% of the whole gross.
So there is a big variance in that stuff,
no matter which way you go.
I wanna just add something to what Mark said.
He talked about going up to the field in Thailand.
I went to a, I didn't go to a field,
but I went to, I guess what you would call a garden.
And similar to what Mark said,
I had to hide in the car, and I got to the field,
and our broker, our Thai friend said,
well, same thing to me, well, what do you think?
And I looked around, I said, what are you talking about?
I didn't see anything.
And then he says, well, look up.
And it was like being in a field of Christmas trees.
The first branch on the weed was like above my head.
And I just-
That's exactly what I went to.
And Mike says we're still in touch
with our broker, right, Mike?
Yeah, yes, yes.
He's growing weed again,
because it's supposedly legal in Thailand now.
So I guess it's something like California.
Yeah, you know what?
I'll say another thing about how strong the Thai weed was
at that time in those early years.
Like I said, the first test was, well, smell,
aroma, maybe we could say,
but also whether it would stick to a wall.
But the third thing, of course, was smoking it.
And I can remember on several occasions,
I came home to the house after running around town,
doing my business, whatever it was,
and rolling a fat joint, lying in bed,
and lighting up the joint,
and waking up 30 minutes later
with almost the whole joint sitting there in my finger,
you know, it had gone out.
It was so strong, it had just knocked me out like that.
It was so strong, it wouldn't burn.
No, it wouldn't burn.
You had to keep it going.
Mark says it was so strong,
it means it was so full of oil, so sticky.
Yeah, and it was so sticky, you know,
and people often ask,
well, how would you describe the aroma?
Well, how would you describe it?
And what I say, call it was bubblegum spice.
I mean, you could say, oh, many different spices.
It smelled like cinnamon, it smelled like this, and it did.
But I say bubblegum because it was so sticky,
even the aroma felt sticky.
It felt like it was sticking to your nostrils,
and like bubblegum, you know?
And then you can add whatever spice you want to that.
That was Bangkok.
Yeah, that was in Bangkok.
But I-
Just quickly, I wanted to introduce Michael,
who's Cogu down in the corner,
who is also in California,
and he can maybe say a quick hello.
Or Dave, do you want to give a quick intro?
Mike's up in Northern California,
and he's been dabbling in this stuff
as long as you guys have.
And he's actually still hands-on growing
a lot of these ties that you guys probably brought over.
I mean, you probably brought over in the old days.
Well, I hope so.
Yeah, that's good news.
Did you guys ever, later on,
when the loads were coming in,
I know on the coast here of Santa Cruz,
there was a bunch of loads coming in,
and then they got busted.
But along that time, a little earlier,
there was some stuff called Golden Voice.
You ever remember that?
Yeah.
I've heard, but I don't know what that,
what it would pertain to, you know?
There are so many names for it.
From what I gather, it was a load from one of the guys
that was supplying, and it was,
after all these loads, they gave it to them as a,
like a gift, and it was like the untied.
It was not pressed at all.
It was real sticky and golden.
It was, it only came through town once,
and not too many people even know about it,
and I was just curious if you guys knew about it.
I heard it might've been Laos or Cambodian.
Well, when I first went to go,
first went up to Thailand, Bangkok,
you could score from like taxi drivers
or the girls that worked in the clubs or something,
you know, somebody or the guy at the hotel or something.
But to find some, I took a train up to Udon,
up in Northern Thailand, where the Air Force Base is,
where there was up there close to Vietnam,
that area up there.
It was Laos.
In Laos area, yeah, up near close to Laos.
And the weed, so to score up there was pretty easy.
It was plentiful.
The Air Force guys did it all the time and sent it back.
And so we got the big package that I got
was all golden sticky stuff, and it was just, yeah.
And that smell, like you said,
it would kind of like permeate into your lungs,
kind of that oily smell about it.
Didn't allow ocean was gold, was it Mike?
That's where the best,
I've had really good gold tie weed plenty of times.
And that would be in,
and most of the time we thought it came from Laos.
And I got it back in the old days too,
because when my son was born and my son's 48,
I was getting some sticks out of Canada.
These Canadians are bringing in small amounts,
but I was getting 10 pounds at a time back in 73, 74.
And my son was born in August or July 26, 74.
So I saved up some of my best sticks, little barges.
I saved a barge from each one of those.
And I had one that was lime green.
I had one that was totally gold
and one that was that other army green.
They were all prime time.
I mean, they were all, the only difference was the taste.
The strength was there in every one of them.
And they were both, I mean,
when you're doing smaller amounts
and it's done by a small farmer,
you're getting better quality.
So in the newer days, they got some good stuff
and it was real good, but was it as good as the old days?
How can you say without comparing it?
But the stuff in the old days like that
knocked the hell out of you.
Let me jump in here.
What about the chocolate tie?
Was that a typical profile
or did that happen after the cure,
after the amount of time it took to get to the mainland?
Old.
It's just old.
The chocolate tie was old, yeah.
I was just a good name to give it,
just to keep it going, to move it.
Yeah.
But a lot of the ties, at least in California,
had a kind of a roast beef, musky chocolate type aroma.
Kind of real-
Well, we didn't have a good connection then.
Well, no, no.
That wasn't the good stuff.
That's the common.
The good ones that I remember were like you mentioned, Dave,
were that the sticks were big
and just like an eighth of it
would only be an inch off the stick.
And it was more golden.
And then like you said, they had the army green
where the flower was lighter,
but the leaves had the army green look.
And that was a lot of that we were getting
was the unwrapped, untied.
It was more of the loose stuff.
Like Mike Ritter said, after a certain year,
we didn't get any more ties on the stick
after like probably 78 or something like that, 77, 78.
Started all coming unpressed.
But I got unpressed before that.
I got unpressed in 75 that somebody I know did.
They did a load.
It wasn't huge, but they did 400.
It did 200 kilos four times through shipping.
And when we got it, it was unpressed.
It was untied.
And it looked like it just came from your garden.
It was lime green.
It was beautiful.
It smelled like heaven.
Oh God, we called it fats.
Forget about the sticks.
I sold probably.
I sold almost a thousand pounds of that
over about a six month period.
It was amazingly good.
Let me jump in here for a minute
and speak to what Michael said and something else.
When you say Laotian weed and Thai weed,
it's really the same weed.
We've got to remember that the weed
that we're talking about was grown up
along the Mekong River,
the Mekong River in North and Northeast Thailand.
And on both sides of the river,
on the Laotian side and on the Thai side,
the people are basically the same people,
the same tribes.
And maybe their family lives on one side
and the other part of the family lives on the other side.
So the weed they grew was basically the same,
but the Thai seemed to grow it
to a greater extent than the Laotian did.
But Michael, you asked about the golden voice
and I know the history of that weed.
That was actually grown on an island
in the river in between Laos and Thailand.
And that was organized by an American named Kerry Watson.
He was an American living in Hawaii.
And then he had an opportunity to go
to October that part of the world.
And he found the weed and he tracked it down
and he hired a family actually,
a Laotian family to grow him a crop out on this island.
And he was thinking, well, why should I put stems?
Why should I send all this other stuff through?
I'll have them put it through a colander
and just have this nice, clean weed.
So that's what he did.
He had them grow a crop.
He had them put it through a sieve or a colander
and got all the stems and all that kind of stuff out.
And then he packed it in boxes
and he had access to the American post office
which was what the post office, the military used.
And what that post office,
it was much like being in the United States.
There was no customs at the other side.
So he was able to ship out crates of this weed
through the American post office and ship that to Hawaii.
Actually, I think he had an address
up at the University of Hawaii
and then somebody would intercept it.
And it's sold at Hawaii.
I think later people, later weed was also called
the golden voice, but that was the origin
of the golden voice.
Why it looked golden, I don't know.
I mean, like Dave said, some look golden,
some look green, jungle green, and some look lime green.
My personal favorite was the lime green
because, and I don't know why,
maybe it was just dried and cured properly,
but it had the best taste to me.
The jungle green, unlike what Mark said,
the jungle green I found was the one
that hammered me the most.
I mean, it was like a sledgehammer to the head.
It was the strongest, but maybe it was too strong for me.
And the golden, I saw the golden sometimes,
but the golden was often mixed in with another green.
And I don't know how to describe the color,
but I recall one time when I was driving down to the coast
to actually get on a boat to send a load out.
And we passed through this area
where they were selling the famous durian fruit,
that whatever you want, that smelly fruit.
And it was in a rural area, a farm area,
and they had piles and piles of this durian
that they were selling wholesale.
And the trees had this golden green color,
and the durian had this golden green cover,
and the pot had this golden green color,
and everything had this golden green.
It was like I was swimming in this golden green,
and I was smoking this golden green, man.
And I don't know, man, but I got on this boat
and delivered one of the best loads of durian
I ever delivered.
Yeah, the last sticks I got, I think it was,
I don't know, we were limited on distribution here.
Things were coming up on the coast,
but these Buddha sticks, they called them, came in.
And those were kind of golden green, extremely sticky.
Yeah.
I found some seeds in them.
And I don't know if you guys are familiar
with Santa Cruz at all, but I grew some of those in-
I was in Dyer there, yeah.
Excuse me.
Near Happy Valley on Branch 40 Drive,
there was an old dairy farm there
that a friend of mine lived on.
And I planted them, and I didn't do anything with them.
And that was when we had more consistent weather.
And those things grew 14 feet.
There was three females.
Yeah.
And I didn't do anything to them,
and they didn't mold at all like nowadays.
This year I had a little better luck
with some different weed, different Thai weed,
but you couldn't tell the difference after I harvested it
and I carried it, it tasted exactly the same.
Kicked the shit out of you, and it was strong.
That's the stuff.
You had that Thai buzz, you were wired up.
Sometimes you got so wired, you had to quit smoking.
Yeah, you got it.
I don't remember exactly what the taste was,
because I'm kind of forgetting things,
but I can't remember.
You know, if you got Thai seeds, man,
and you still got them, you've got a treasure.
You know, they're growing weed all over Thailand now,
but they've imported seeds from Amsterdam,
from America, this and that.
I'm not, and people say they can't even find
Thai weed in Thailand anymore.
Inherited seeds, yeah.
It's a great tragedy.
I grew some this year from Chiang Rai near this,
forget what that thing, it was a big Kwan Yin statue.
I don't know if you guys ever saw it.
I don't know if you guys ever saw that place.
They came from there.
You've been there?
Yeah.
Yeah, and it turned out really good.
They grew well.
The buds were actually fairly tight for Thai.
They weren't as airy as like some of the lemon Thai
that I grew about 10, 12 years ago,
but the seeds that I got recently
are supposedly authentic.
Actually, a top dog went over there and got a bunch,
and he's got some squirrel tail and some different ones too.
But I only grew a couple.
Pardon me?
That was Thai weed, real Thai weed that skunk dog got?
Top dog, yeah.
Okay, well.
Yeah.
I mean, it's over there, but I mean,
they say that you gotta go and get in with the locals
like anything and find it.
It's pretty obscure unless you get into the outskirts and go.
And I think one of these,
the one that the Chiang Rai that I got
that was grown near that big Kwan Yin,
the guy that sent him to me said that that was his landlord
and they'd been growing there for years.
Great.
And some was purple and some was green.
They were the same,
but the purple seemed to have a more of a,
like a musky, sweeter smell.
The others were more kind of limey a little bit.
But.
I'm smoking a mint kush or a,
what do you, mint kush or whatever it is.
It looks just like the lime green Cambodian weed.
Oh, really?
And there's plenty, it's clone though.
The good stuff now, buddy,
there's some guys doing amazing work with clone,
you know, and they get better all the time.
There's a lot of,
that's the best quality I'm seeing for outdoor
is from clones.
You know, and I know a lot of guys
producing their own seeds and stuff,
but you know, you just get so many variances
and it's like Mike says,
how do you know if something pure anymore?
If I mean, that strain,
if the seed's 20 years old,
unless you kept it right,
they're not gonna be too good.
Yeah, I guess it's a,
it's a much better playing field nowadays.
You just gotta do a lot of homework
and see what these guys are about.
And some guys have them and some guys don't.
I have-
The tropics, it grows good over there.
It's gotta grow,
it's gotta grow better over there
than you would in California.
I would think,
just because of the climate and the soil.
It's a different strain.
It's better.
It's, you know, it's different though.
Like you said, it's a climate thing, right?
It's once you get below the equator,
you're dealing with tropical environments
and Hawaii, as far as California or Florida would go,
would be your closest to probably a Thailand,
Cambodia, Laos environment, if anything.
One guy I always talked about,
his buddies talked about was Loation Green.
That's what they said was their favorite.
All the military guys and all that stuff
that were in Vietnam.
And I have some original Vietnamese,
some Cambodian Thai, and a couple Thais.
Most of my Thai seeds, like you guys said, don't germinate.
But via my dad's friends,
I reached out and was able to get some stuff
that's pure that does work.
So I just do seed increases
and I'll cross them into our today's strains,
but I don't let them out pure
because then that'll dilute them and things go haywire,
like we see happening in Thailand.
So you're making your own seeds?
Oh yeah, yeah.
I've been doing that for 10 years now.
Kind of like back when the medical started,
there were so many incredible clones
that didn't have dads to,
I learned how to reverse them to have backup seeds of those.
And that's kind of what got me into breeding
was trying to back up these clones
that didn't have daddies to them,
which led to this.
And then I got my dad's collection.
And what's interesting is my uncle Dave,
he's a little younger out of the family,
but he was in Hermosa Beach, Redondo,
doing a lot of stuff there, a lot of stuff.
And they were getting Thai seeds out of the weed they'd get
and they were sending them to Mexico and Columbia
to have those guys grown
because they got more money for that weed.
They did the same with the skunk.
What was interesting is I got some of my uncle Dave's seeds
that wouldn't germinate, but we sent them to Phylos
and it originated to Uzbekistan.
Oh wow.
It was interesting.
It's kind of makes sense because north of Thailand and Laos
you go Bhutan and you swing across to Pakistan and India.
It's kind of a short path there.
So maybe that was the migration of the psychoactive cannabis
to Southeast Asia was through that
Northern Northwestern Middle East,
as we could call it possibly.
And that's what I was trying to get at, ask you guys,
you know how the Mexicans didn't have a lot
of external resin, whereas Afghanis or Middle Eastern plants
had a lot of external resin.
And my dad always referred to as Afghanis as hash plants
and Indicas as hash plants
because most of the resin was on the outside.
In reference to the Mexican,
they were always getting up to a certain point.
I'm wondering if Thailand, did you notice that?
Were any plants would have been stockier and more resiny
or were they all sativa type, tall,
really tall type of plants?
I didn't notice a lot of resiny plants.
I noticed the sativa plants.
There's a lot of things that were just said
that I'd like to speak to here.
You know, you're talking about the military.
Well, recall there was a big military presence in Thailand,
but the main bases were up along the Mekong River.
And so, as I said, Laotian weed and Thai weed,
you know, it was sort of the same thing.
One thing that we haven't mentioned here
is the weather over there.
And I think that's really important.
First of all, the growing area of North Thailand,
it's not on the equator, it's about 14 degrees North.
And along the river is not much higher than sea level.
But what is interesting is how the weather changes.
Basically, Thailand has three seasons.
It has the hot season, which is like, let me think,
oh, April, May, and till into June.
It has the hot wet season, which is June, July, August,
maybe September, and then it has the cool dry season.
So they wanna get their plants started during the wet season
for obvious reasons, let the rain water them.
And then they come to harvest
at the beginning of the cool season,
pretty much the same season as we have here.
They harvest maybe in October or later,
but it gets really cool
towards the end of the growing season,
like California might do.
And I think that had a big influence
on the way the plant grew and why it was so good.
Also, when they first started planting,
they planted it along the river.
And this was in the areas where the silt came down.
Every year, the river flooded and brought this silt down
and had these wonderfully fertile areas,
not only along the Mekong River,
all the tributaries there.
And a lot of that land, it was free land in a way.
If you wanted to go into the jungle
or you wanted to go along the river
and clear out a space and grow your weed, you could do that.
And the last thing I'd speak to, I forgot your name,
was where did the Thai weed come from?
Where did that seed come from?
I spent a lot of time trying to figure that out.
What I found in one of the main growing cities,
the name is Nakhon Phanom.
It's in the northeast corner of Thailand,
right where the Mekong River does this dog leg
from coming basically west to east and going south
and then into Cambodia.
Town says that they have seven tribes of people
living there.
One of the tribes is called the Nha.
And you can spell that N-Y-A-W.
I went to a village, a Nha village there,
and they said, yeah, we were one of the first villagers
or maybe the first to grow Thai weed extensively.
And so I don't know if that particular people
had the knowledge or not,
but I tend to think they might've carried the knowledge.
So I spent some time trying to find out
where the Nha came from.
And at one point I thought,
oh, they must've come down the river
because I think in maybe the 14th century
when Kublai Khan was the emperor of China,
they were in an expansionist period
and they were pushing the tribal people,
the Chinese tribal people south and into Thailand.
But I'm not sure if that hypothesis are correct or not
because what I later found out was that particular people
that might've carried the knowledge
came from Eastern Laos
in the area called the Plain of Jars.
But in any case, I believe that the knowledge
of growing Thai weed came somehow from Southern China
and was pushed into Thailand.
The Thais themselves say that they originated up there
in that area of Uzbekistan
and came down into Thailand after the last glaciation.
So it's entirely possible that my,
no, I'm sorry, I forgot your name.
But what you said is true,
that it did come from that area,
but not by the route you said.
It came through Northern China or Western China
down into Southeastern China and down into Thailand.
I think that's the way it came.
Whereas, for example, the Afghani weed
and some of the junk weed,
that came into India through the traders
that went from Gujarat,
from Southern Pakistan,
they came across into Northern Indonesia, Sumatra and such.
And that is my hypothesis why the weed is so different
from those two areas.
Did you notice difference in the seed sizes at that time?
Little ones, big ones, did any stick out at that time?
Big fat ones in the Thai weed.
Is that what you remember, Mark?
Some big fatties.
Yeah, when you would find a seed,
they would be usually pretty nice,
plump little watermelon looking kind of things.
Yeah, kind of shaped like a watermelon.
Yeah.
That's interesting,
because most sativas tend to have a smaller seed,
whereas a hybrid's medium size
and indicas tend to have real large seeds.
So that would be interesting.
The sativas that came from Oaxaca had huge seeds in them.
Yeah.
Most of the good weed that you're gonna see
anywhere on the globe was grown and kept by tribal units.
And Panama Red was grown on the San Vas Islands
by the Indians.
Oaxaca, the Indians.
Africa, the tribes.
Same thing with Thailand.
Those are the ones, and they knew it.
And that stuff, you look at that history book,
it's old stuff.
It's been carried on.
They knew what the good stuff was.
That's how they carried it.
I had that Panama Red, the original stuff once,
and it was as good as Thai weed.
It was incredible.
And the best weed I ever had was a cross
that was grown in Central America
that was the strongest weed I've ever seen.
And they grown by Americans in Honduras
with Colombian seeds and stuff,
and it was incredible weed.
So you can grow that stuff good anywhere
when you got that climate and you do it right.
Indoors, you are God.
You can create the climate.
Yeah, well, outdoors, I'm well.
I prefer outdoor myself.
Just because, and especially you.
You wanna grow for the masses.
You know, give it to everybody.
I like in California right now, we're giving weed away.
I gave somebody a pound and a half a couple of weeks ago.
Said, here, make us some edibles or something.
Nobody wants it.
It's last year's, you know?
That's the way it should be.
Everybody, here, this is joint.
Here's this, here's some ash.
Man, that's the way it should be.
That's what we are.
That's a good thing.
It sucks the way they legalized it, but it is nice.
We got all the weed.
Anybody wants weed here, they got it.
Plenty of it.
It's nice.
And as I was, and from what I know,
and another author, Rob Clark,
he wrote the book of Hashish.
He was also telling me that during the Vietnam War early on
when the servicemen were going over there,
they were dating the local girls
and then ended up staying at their house or whatnot.
And they would cook for them.
And a big popular dish all throughout Southeast Asia
is kaffir, in a way, soup, right?
And they noticed the ladies putting the sticks of weed
in the soup for flavoring.
And the GI said, hey, wait a minute, this is weed,
blah, blah, blah.
And that's part of what I understand why.
Rob explained to me, most people in Asia
at that time and earlier, they liked opium.
They didn't smoke too much weed in Asia.
But when the American servicemen went there,
they saw that there was a market for it.
So the farmers started growing more of it.
And I heard they were growing it in the Philippines.
They were growing it all around Vietnam
because obviously you couldn't grow it in Vietnam
during the war.
So Vietnam was getting a lot of weed from Philippines,
Thailand, Cambodia, and Laos.
And I guess the sticks were part of a flavoring thing
for the soup over there.
And that's how the stick thing came up.
I think most of that is true.
I've read Rob Clark's book, and I think it's great.
I have a lot of admiration for what he's done.
And yes, the Thais did put weed into the curries
and into the soup.
That's true.
And all along the Mekong River, people
have these little home gardens, little back gardens
where they grow vegetables, this and that.
And they always had a plant or two of Thai weed
for that purpose.
Or maybe they would use it for some medicinal purpose
if you had a headache or something like that.
Or if a guy had to go out and do hard labor,
he didn't want to do it, he might smoke a joint.
And the GIs did have a huge influence
on taking it from just those backyard gardens
into an industry.
I think that's absolutely true.
There was thousands of those guys over there.
And that was right in the late 60s
when that whole period was happening
where people were smoking pot.
I think that's all true.
I've smoked Philippine weed, and it's junk.
It's like Mexican weed is.
So that might be true that it was going into Vietnam,
but the good weed was coming out of Thailand.
And I don't even know that it was good weed coming out
of Vietnam.
Some of the Vietnamese weed that I have from my dad's friend
via Geyser over there, they've been growing it
in Hawaii for the whole time.
And it's actually really good.
Surprisingly, it starts out pretty stocky like an indica,
but when it gets in the flower, it turns sativa.
And it takes a long time like a sativa.
And it's kind of got a sharp, sour, astringent-y, slight
pepper taste to it.
And I noticed one thing about Southeast Asian strains
is most of all the strains, their leaves
are double serrated.
So that's always been a trait for me
to help identify Asian strains.
And even today's modern crosses, if you
look what Asian strains were used in them,
you can see double serrades in the leaves.
You're teaching me something.
Isn't anybody double serrated?
Yeah, instead of like a normal pot leaf,
I'll have a serrade, then another serrade.
Then these will double up.
Some of them will triple up.
And I noticed on pretty much most all Asian strains,
some Colombians will do it.
Not many strains will do it.
But I noticed that trait carries over
in Southeast Asian strains.
And I also have seen some strains from Korea
that have that trait also.
So that's what I went and grew the Vietnamese that had that.
The Cambodian Thais have had that.
So that's one thing I can go off.
Some of the strains I get from Hawaii that are crosses,
you can see that profile.
And I try to help use that profile with today's strains
to help identify what's in today's strains.
I'm a pot connoisseur, pot snob, and a pot researcher.
I like to know it all.
And you know where you're going if you don't
know where you came from, right?
Yeah.
And truthful information is very important.
So I want to learn as much as I can.
So when I'm saying something is as accurate as can be.
And thanks to you guys like you guys,
that's why I was hoping we could have a show like this,
because we get proper information out there
for the future generations to go off, not fairy tale stories.
This is the actual truth right here.
And it's nice because we have the age spectrum, right?
The 60 plus to the 50s.
And we're going to have a bunch of 20-year-olds
taking all of our places.
So it's best that we feed them the proper programming
so they can carry on this the correct way.
OK.
So that's kind of where I'm coming from
and why I'm so involved in this.
And also growing up in not just a weed environment,
a weed dealer environment, right?
I've seen piles of weed my whole life as a little kid.
Hash, kilos of hash wrapped in cloths with stamps
and boxes of that stuff.
Hash oil, I've seen it all.
Like I tell my friends, I had so many minibikes
growing up as a kid because my parents would go,
where'd you get the money for that?
Oh, we found a wallet.
Because I was always grabbing little handfuls
and taking it to my older cousin.
He'd sell it and I'd run into the swap meet
and buy a minibike or a BB gun or something like that.
OK. Wise guy.
Well, yeah.
I got kids too.
My kid did that too.
He was a real star.
He was a real, he hit it to beat.
At Rincon, he was a big star.
Yeah, that's one thing, boy.
You get a lot of things going on.
But that's what's great about weed
is it breaks all racial barriers,
all nationalities, looks, appearance,
skinny, tall, fat, Middle Eastern, Hispanic.
It doesn't matter.
You all come together over weed.
There's not many things on the planet can do that.
Food, music, and weed is the thing
that bonds everybody together.
I agree.
Just quickly, Dave,
these guys spent a lot of time in Thailand
and kind of Southeast Asia.
It seems like you were the guy in the US bringing weight in.
So can you, Mike, maybe can you talk about
how you connected with Dave
and then Dave kind of talk about
what you were up to at this time?
Well, you know, Dave and I didn't really become friends
until, gosh, long after we were both either retired
or forcibly retired.
I knew about him all the time over there
because he was one of the guys.
But I think on a couple of occasions
I was really pissed off at him
because I don't think he dealt with me fairly.
Now looking back, I think he was perfectly fair,
but then I was pissed off
and didn't want to have anything to do with him for a while.
Yeah, but it was through Dave's brother
that I was loading boats for Dave in Asia.
So I actually dealt with Dave's brother
more than I did with Dave.
And his brother, Mike,
another Mike and I got along really well.
I really liked working with him.
But like I said, it wasn't for many years later
that Dave and I got to be good friends.
And we're good friends now.
And I think one of the things that we bond on
is making that dry sip.
It's a passion for us, I think.
Like maybe some guys, other generations,
they like making beer
and they get together and do this or that.
For Dave and I, it's getting together
and doing a dry sip and we talk story.
And usually I just shut up
and listen to what Dave's got to say
because he knows about every load of Thai weed
that ever came into America.
Dave, are you using the freezer for your trim for this,
for your sip?
Oh yeah, there you go.
Overnight, come on.
Overnight, overnight.
We're doing, and I'm learning a lot all the time.
It's getting better on it.
Wait till when Mike comes back from Mexico.
Wait till he sees what I got.
I got, I've been aging stuff.
I'm doing a lot of experimenting
and how I'm aging it and how I'm,
I'm learning how to press it and age it
and do things like that.
Do you want to make the traditional hash?
Oh, I do.
Yeah, I'm already doing it.
I'd be waiting to wait.
I smoked the dry sip, but I'm making traditional half
because the American public right now is unsophisticated.
They're like comparable to wine in 1965.
These guys that are going to dispensaries
and buying rolled joints in quarter ounces
do not have a clue.
Half of them don't even want to get high.
They don't know what it is.
You want to get high, you go home and you smoke it
and you know what it tastes like.
You find the good shit, you seek it out.
I've been doing that my whole life
since I was a teenager and that stuff or whatever, right?
But I met Mike, I first went to Thailand.
I always wanted to go to Thailand
and I started dealing Thai weed in 73
and I had a connection in Canada
and we got it quite a bit and nobody had it.
And then in 74, I had a connection
like Mike was talking about
and I knew a guy that was in the military
and they were getting 30 pounds twice a month
and I was getting 10 pounds of it twice a month,
you know, and I sold it.
So I saw a lot of it and that was it.
My first load, I bought a boat,
me and my partners bought a boat in Hong Kong in 1976.
We got our first load and we loaded up actually
at the wrong time.
We did everything wrong the first time
but in January of 77, February 77 is when we loaded up
and we got, we had a 48 foot sailboat
we bought from the Choy Lee factory.
We were supposed to get the weed from Thai,
the guy that was getting from, you know,
typical go through a bunch of crap.
Anyways, we got that thing loaded by another guy
and we broke the backstay, had to put it on an island,
set it there for two months.
I got an offload in Australia, got it together here
and we finally took it here.
I offloaded my first boat, July the 3rd, 77
in Santa Barbara and we took 2,850 pounds,
put it on little sailboats
and brought it into Santa Barbara Harbor
and Ventura Harbor and then offloaded it
on our stuff and waited out and distributed.
And right after, before I even got my boat in,
after I got my connections and I went to Thailand,
we did, and Mike was involved with this,
we did 1400 pounds of air freight into LA airport.
And I sold those guys a share of that.
So I looked at a lot of the weed when it came in,
you gotta look at the weed you're selling
because if you sell 100 pounds to somebody from New York
and he goes out there and there's 15 bad pounds,
he's gonna be pissed and he's either not gonna come back
or it's not gonna be good, whatever it is.
So I've looked through all my stuff and I,
when we first started, I remember Kim Kramer
who Mike knew real well, he got a load in
and I helped him, I invested
and I helped him with the offload.
I was gonna do the sales.
He goes, well, let's sell the bad stuff first
and then we'll get those guys,
we'll tell them we got the good stuff later.
I said, do me a favor,
you got a math little thing there?
I said, what's the bulk of the stuff worth?
Where's the good stuff, what's it worth?
Well, it's worth, I go,
well, why don't we get our good money first
and then we'll give those other guys,
they can cut their prices and that would fit.
You gotta, I did a lot of the marketing and to do that,
you gotta look at the weed and to do the weed,
I mean, I smoke it.
I know when you can't sell somebody something
that looks good and they go home and they smoke it
and it ain't no good.
They're not gonna come back.
You want them to go home and go,
man, that fucking, the last load that I did,
when that thing, when I got to 20%, it was flooded.
250 tons came into the coast that year,
all over the place, it flooded the whole country.
I offloaded 26 tons.
Our share off the last one was 6,000 pounds
and we cherry picked it.
Everything was flooded.
They were selling it, some guys were selling for 800 bucks.
I took 100 pounds of my load
and gave it to my five top distributors and said,
take this weed and look at it and call me in a week.
And they called me back, go, where did you get that from?
Man, oh my God, that's incredible.
I said, I got 6,000 pounds.
I'm gonna sit on it for six months
until the market dries up and then I'm gonna have it
and it's gonna all be like this.
And I sold that 6,000 pounds in four weeks for 1,400
and didn't lose one cent.
So I know the market pretty good.
And that's my, and when you're dealing like what I did,
after a while, I decided to stay here
and do offloading because there were so many people
you're getting loads over there and you couldn't get loaded
and people were getting bad shit.
I figured I'd just wait here and pick off the loads
and I, you know, that one, I'm getting my cut.
I'm taking 20%.
So because of that, I got to do a lot of loads
and I had a big crew to offload and stuff with.
So we had the stash houses and stuff.
So we'd break down the loads and look at it
because I'm gonna take my cut and it's 20%.
I'm not taking the bad shit.
I'm telling you that I know better
than to get stuck with shit.
And usually on my share, I got to pay the boat guys.
And those boat guys, you know, I own 750, a million bucks,
shit like that, they don't take discounts.
So I got to be sure on all my, you know,
when I'm getting my stuff,
I got to be sure that I can pay everybody
or somebody's, you know, I'm gonna lose my business
and maybe have other problems if I don't do that.
Oh, that's where I come from.
Here, come on.
So you waiting for you to talk?
When did Hayes come into the picture?
That come into your market at all?
Because Hayes is a big mystery for today's people.
No one knows the true origins
or what's going on with that stuff.
I don't know.
I've never heard of it.
Of what?
What are you talking about?
Hayes.
No, there's a lot of strains.
These nowadays are so many different strains and names.
Can't keep up with them all.
You know, there was, it's pretty simple back then.
We had the big-
Because we lived in like, supposedly in the 70s,
you had tie and Acapulco gold and you had Hayes.
That was like one of the big ones in the 70s was Hayes.
And from what I know, it just appears to be a Colombian,
a real incensy type Colombians.
I never had-
I was living in Maui back in the late 60s, 70s,
and everything coming in there was all Afghani ash.
There wasn't any weed at all in Hawaii or Maui
anyway back then.
So we didn't see a lot of-
People didn't really care too much about weeds.
So we didn't get a lot of different strains of pot back then.
In fact, it wasn't until I got to Thailand
that I took notice of pot again,
because it was so strong.
Did you ever run across any in Hawaii?
Did they have any of that lizard tongue or elephant ear?
Ash?
Ash?
Elephant ear and lizard tongue ash?
You don't remember that?
Afghani.
I remember that.
Afghani.
That's Afghani ash.
That's the shape.
And elephant ears are those big round ones.
We had the surfboard.
Yeah.
You know, that Primo gold-
That's a lizard tongue.
That's a lizard tongue.
That's a lizard tongue.
Yeah.
That's the same thing as surfboard.
I found a couple of seeds when I was living in Bonny Doon
when that stuff came through.
Stuff was so strong it'd make you throw up.
I don't know.
I never saved any of it,
but it was just too strong for me.
Choked the shit out of you.
Jeff Hagan brought in five pounds of Afghani seeds
in I think 1974, 75.
And that T-boy grew them down there in Encinitas.
Or not Encinitas, Vista.
And that was the first time that anybody I know
brought in a large amount of Afghani seeds.
And that strains started a lot of shit here.
And I remember it smelled like heaven.
You remember that, Mark?
What part?
The Afghani ash?
Well, when T-boy grew that green weed down there
in like 74, 75, it grew like 400 or 500 pounds.
And it was incredible.
It had an incredible hash smell.
Was that the skunk?
The first skunk?
Yep.
Yeah.
Because I remember Paul Brook and Vista.
That's where the first skunk came out.
Yeah, I remember that.
That was Hagan.
Hagan brought the seeds from Afghanistan
and T-boy grew those.
I didn't know that.
Yeah.
You know.
Yeah, that's where my dad's head is.
From the Vista Valley Center, that whole area.
You probably know my dad probably and his buddies.
Yeah.
Paul or Lloyd?
Who?
Lloyd or Paul.
How about Tom Legacy?
That's where all the- Tom Legacy?
Yeah, Legacy.
Where's he from?
He's originally from, I guess,
the Valley Center Temecula area, but he's in Kauai now.
He wasn't from Pasadena, Sierra Madre, that area?
Yes, that's him.
Yep.
That's, yeah, he's originally from that area.
See, that's where my dad grew up
and that's where our whole kind of network was.
You have to remember, I'm a little kid,
so I'm just observing this stuff.
You know, I was one year old in 71,
so that tells you my age.
So by four years old, I kind of got an idea what this is
and by five or six, I realized what it is.
So now I'm paying attention to stuff, you know,
and as I get older, I'm paying attention to all this stuff.
I'm realizing we have so much weed
that my dad hides it in the trash cans outside
because it can't fit all in the house.
It's everywhere, you know?
So I'm just, don't know what's going on,
but as I get older, I start to realize what's going on.
And these are just hand-me-down stories
that I've overheard or observed through my dad
and all that stuff,
because a lot of times I realized,
I think you were safer in the car carrying stuff with a kid
because the cop wasn't most likely to pull you over
if there was a kid in the car back then.
So my dad was taking me everywhere,
going to the houses in Laguna and all over,
and I'd go in there and they'd go, go play, go do this,
but they'd be right.
Everybody had Pelican briefcases back then.
That was a big deal.
Everybody had briefcases,
carry their money in and stuff and piles of weed.
I still have mine.
Piles of weed everywhere.
And my uncle Dave, he was a little younger
and that was from Rosa Beach.
I loved his house.
He had quarter sticks of dynamite and Tommy guns
and all kinds of the fun stuff.
So when I was a little kid,
I was stealing bullets and taking them home.
And I was in heaven.
This whole family I was in was like, wow, this is amazing.
And then as I get older, I'm like, wow,
you don't know how lucky you were
to be around that type of weed cannabis history.
I explored you.
Now the drone here is amazing.
Yeah, I'll tell you.
You want to hear one of those stories like that?
When my son was 10 years old,
he went to a Jimmy Buffett concert
and he knew all the words and I was out offloading the boat.
And Jimmy Buffett called him up on the stage after that
and said, how do you know every word?
And he says, well, my dad's a big fan.
He says, where's your dad tonight?
And he goes, well, he's working.
He said, you mean they're still bringing
that shit in around here?
And so he gave me backstage pass.
That's a good one.
I think Dave went out of the reception area.
Yeah, he looks like he's in a car.
I don't know where he is.
Oh, there he is.
I think I lost it for a second.
I'm driving now.
I got to go somewhere.
So shit, okay.
So I might be lost.
So yeah, Mike, Tom's mentioned he said he knew you
or you guys have crossed paths before Tom Legacy.
Well, Tom Legacy was, I think a good friend
or maybe the best friend of my cousin, Jeff Potter.
And one summer when I was 18 or 19,
we all took a road trip up to the Sierras.
That's the last time I've seen Tom Legacy.
So that's like 1965, maybe the only time.
Weird how things come together eventually, right?
Yeah, Tom's on Kauai and he's still growing weed
and doing his thing over there.
He grew a whole bunch of Malawi in greenhouses
in Valley Center a long time ago.
And that was like a big deal to grow a large amount
of weed in a greenhouse back then.
Yeah, well, that's very interesting.
I thought he was one of those,
the generation older than me
who was a straight generation.
That surprises me to hear that.
Yeah, I think his family was military-ish
or something like that.
Yeah, and he may have been a little more straight edge
compared to the rest of the group.
I wanna say, one thing you're talking about
all these grows in California, the first grows.
When I look back and even back then,
basically Thai weed was too strong for me.
It just knocked me out so hard
that often I couldn't function.
And when I came back to United States one year
and was introduced to Maui Waui,
and I thought, man, this is the best weed
I've ever seen in my entire life.
Wasn't as strong as Thai weed,
but it had that wonderful fruity flavor.
It looked so beautiful and the taste was so good.
And then shortly after that, I came to California
and had skunk weed.
I thought, man, I never wanna smoke Thai weed again.
I'll do business in Thai,
but if I smoke it's gonna be American homegrown.
So we lost two Dave now, I think.
Let me think.
Oh, there's Dave.
We've been around the block
and talked about so many things here
that aren't related to Thai.
I would like to pose a question
and maybe nobody has an answer for it,
but how did marijuana,
how did cannabis first arrive in the new world,
Mexico and South America?
By what route did it get there?
Because we know it's not native to the new world.
Anybody?
According to Rob Clark,
the slave ships that carried the slaves from Europe,
Europe, the English would hire Indians from India
and they would manage all the slaves.
And according to Rob, the Indians smoked weed
and when they got to the Caribbean,
the seeds, the weed got into the Caribbean
and spread through South America.
And that's where South American
and North American drug type cannabis came from,
according to these guys.
And the DNA is certain to show that,
that the Jamaicans and the Columbians and this and that,
they have a distinct relationship to India.
I've heard that, I don't know if I believe it.
I've read Clark's book too.
I thought he said,
weed came from Africa on the slavers to Brazil.
Yeah, that's possible too,
but it came, basically it came via the slave ships.
And then I guess, obviously the slaves couldn't have it.
They're, unfortunately they got them chained up
down below the ship.
I don't know what the guys are that take care of that.
They're not the main crew,
but the people that take care of all that
probably had the weed and smoked it and brought it over.
Okay, well, okay.
I'm not saying it's not true,
but I'm saying it's still out for research.
Yeah, yeah.
According to Rob's,
pretty much the most knowledgeable about that.
So that's what information we have is what he's gotten.
And then some of the DNA testing,
it's able to show some of the ancestral roots
via the lineage.
So has somebody actually done that DNA testing
on to find that?
Yeah, they tried to,
but the company said they weren't gonna do funny stuff
with the genetics, i.e. sell them or do things.
And everything started out fine.
And a lot of people sent in stuff from all over the world,
but later on that company started doing funny stuff,
the people found out about it
and everybody ran away from them.
But we did get quite a bit of results
that helped paint a little bit of a picture of stuff.
They're called Phylo.
So you can look at the results on there.
That's right.
Is that organization that keeps track
of all the seeds in the world?
No, those guys are in Norway.
Do they keep track of marijuana seeds?
They're in Norway.
Phylo's was in Norway.
Yeah, but they have seeds from all over the world.
Yeah, they collected every seed you can imagine
having in a big bunker under the ice up in Norway.
Right, do they have marijuana seeds there?
Oh, I'm sure they do.
Yeah, yeah.
Cause that's, you know, what's interesting
is this has never been in legal substance.
It's always been a controlled substance.
The government says it has no medical benefits
but the government owns the patent on the medical benefits.
And that patent was created a long time ago.
So- In the United States?
Yeah.
Oh, I didn't know that.
Yeah, they have the patent on THC
and they say there's no medical benefits
and it's a schedule one drug.
So why do you guys have the patent
for the medical benefits on THC?
Right, and all these guys have always told me
that no, these DA guys and the government guys,
it's a controlled substance.
They control it.
When they wanna crack down hard, they will.
And when they wanna lay off, they lay off.
And I guess that's the way governments work.
It kind of makes sense, a controlled substance.
Cause sometimes throughout my experience,
there's been a lot of weed and not a lot of pressure on it.
Well, hasn't it gotten to that point
where it's kind of out of control now?
It's not that-
I think they found a way to make their money on it now
so they don't care.
Yeah.
Taxes, right?
As soon as they figure out the taxes,
then we don't care about it, but otherwise it's bad.
But when we can get ours, it's okay.
Alcohol, cigarettes, right?
That makes no sense.
Cigarettes kill you and make you addicted to them,
but they're legal.
It's a little confusing to me.
Weed, you don't get addicted to
and no one's ever died from smoking too much weed.
So, hey, you have to question some stuff.
Yeah.
But on the other hand,
I've been fortunate to travel all over the world
and I don't think there's another country I wanna live in.
So even though America's got a bunch of crap,
it's still a great place.
Yeah.
And where do your best friends come from?
I guess all over,
cause I've been kind of fortunate to travel.
So I have a lot close to me,
but some of my best friends do live in other countries.
All right.
A lot of good friends in Hawaii,
a lot in Southern California, Northern California.
That's America.
That's what I'm talking about.
Yeah.
But again, it's a government thing
and we don't have much control
over any of that anyways, right?
So my attitude is I just roll with the punches
and do what I can do.
Did we lose Peter?
I think he's around.
No, Peter is still here.
Have you ever seen one of these?
What are we looking at?
Oh yeah.
Haven't seen that before.
Oh, Kona Gold.
Yeah, with Hawaii tax stamps and everything from 1973.
Kona Gold, pure Kona coal.
I was just curious, anybody has ever seen that before?
What year?
73.
Oh, I know.
I've never seen it.
Yeah, I was over there by that time.
I'd left Maui.
Oh, nice.
Yeah, like I said, I'm into all this stuff.
That's a good collector's item.
I'm growing the seeds right now,
so hopefully I'll have the complete package, right?
The cans and the original Kona Gold to go with these.
You know, the weed that I remember from the Big Island
and the Konas on the Big Island was the Puna Butter.
That was really good.
Huh?
Yeah, Puna Butter Mo'Beta.
Yeah, the Puna Butter was really good.
And the Kauai Electric, right?
Have you guys heard of that one?
So I remember Maui Waui and Puna Butter,
the two weeds from Hawaii that I remember.
Mike that was on earlier,
him and his partners from Hawaii, I guess,
they had gotten a kilo of hash way back in the day,
early 70s, I guess,
and it had a bunch of seeds stuck to it.
And they grew those seeds in Kauai a long time ago.
And today that's what's known as the famous Kauai Electric
are those seeds they got from that hash.
Nice.
And I think that hash was the lizard tongue
that he was talking about.
Oh, I'd like to try some of that.
Yeah, so yeah, hopefully again,
we'll have maybe get another show
and we can come on and Mike could come on
and explained all that story and all that good stuff.
Oh yeah, did he leave us too?
The other Michael?
I think so, yeah.
Okay.
It's bedtime.
Bedtime at Santa Cruz.
Any questions?
I can't think of anything else offhand.
No, I've answered a lot of stuff for me.
Knowing that, you know, different Michael climates,
probably affect the different weeds
they were going at that time
or how the weed came out
based on the different Michael climates of that area.
And I guess like my thing was the chocolate, right?
Chocolate is a big deal.
So was that something that was there in Thailand
tasting chocolate or was that because of the amount of time
it took to get here,
the cure probably brought on that chocolate taste.
Because one thing is-
That was my guess.
Southern California, we always got our Thai in the summer.
It was always in the summer.
And I remember that's because it got you the most high.
It was a hundred degrees out and you're smoking Thai weed.
Oh my God, it magnified the high.
You're completely ruined.
You're back two ways, inside and out.
So I guess that's a question.
About what was an average time for the load
to make it from Thailand to market in US?
Well, you could sail a boat from Thailand
to the United States.
I mean, let's say a long trip would be 60 days.
Not so long trip, maybe a little less than 50 days.
Something like that.
So two to three months would be an average time?
No, not three months.
That would be very long.
And then your crew would be-
Two months is already long.
But a small sailboat, that's that.
Guys use motor vessels too.
And then you could get it across
in maybe 30 days.
But I would say, yeah, 50 days was probably an average.
And when you guys would get your loads there,
was it, had it been around for a while
or did they chop it, dry it up and it was gone?
Was it that kind of thing?
No, like I said, I mean,
harvest season over there was much like California.
Let's say October and they would have to dry
and cure and all that.
But then you're in storm season.
Winter season, nobody wants to sail at that time of year.
But mind you, all the loads did not come across by sailboats.
I have one friend, Abdul,
who was just stuffing containers with it.
And that they would send that to Mexico.
And then they had connection in Mexico
with the United States.
But otherwise it was basically loads did not go out
on boats until early springtime sometime.
Maybe even late spring, early summer.
And so that's why.
How the profile changes the weed.
But because it's cured so long.
Yeah, I mean, don't, yeah,
because it's a few months old.
Curing might be the wrong word
because we don't know how it was stored.
It wasn't stored with the contention to cure.
It was just cut, dried and then stashed somewhere.
So nobody, hidden from the police, basically.
I guess I'm trying to say we can't call it old.
But if we take today's modern weed
and we put it in a bag and throw it in a cupboard
for two months, it will go golden and dark
and the profile will change.
Because a lot of these are highly evaporative.
Yes.
I imagine that happened with the Thai weed
is there it was one profile,
but maybe by the time it got to market in California,
it's quote unquote cured or age some.
And some of those terpenes that evaporated
and some of the chlorophylls left
and that's how you get the golden.
Very likely.
Yeah, all that's true.
Mark?
Yeah, I mean, it's all possible.
Yeah.
Mark, can you kind of talk about
when you hung up the cleats, so to speak?
Like what ended your smuggling days?
Me?
Yeah.
Well, I would say, Mike and I were kind of
working together there towards the end
and it got hard to get a good load in, for one thing,
get all the good weed.
And then there were so many people
and it just, things were starting to get busted
on more on a regular basis.
And so at that point, it just wasn't worth it anymore
to be over there trying to do that.
Cause it just, there was too much high profile
at that point.
So at that point-
And what decade was this?
What's that?
What timeframe?
Jeez, I don't know.
Let's see, probably the last time for me
was about 1986.
Yeah.
That's when I stopped.
I never got busted.
So I never had to spend any time like Mike did.
Lucky and smart.
Never got in trouble and knew when to call it quits.
Didn't try to push something to happen.
Well, like I said, it was the situation was such
that it wasn't a healthy situation at that point.
It wasn't friendly like it used to be.
It used to be a lot of fun.
We lived there.
We didn't just go there for a vacation.
We were spending years at a time
and all these people that were there were friends of ours.
And so we all, everyone was doing maybe a different scam
of some sort, but it was a lot of fun.
It was all good energy.
But then as people, the money was being made,
people started piling in and then the next thing you know,
it becomes more dangerous and there was more money.
And yeah, I don't know, greed got a hold of it.
It got a hold of it like it gets a hold of a lot of things.
Yeah, I guess any good thing,
once everybody finds out it gets ruined.
You guys wouldn't know that as surfers, right?
Yeah.
There you go.
Mike just put out a book.
Just came out last month called Grajagan,
which he wrote with another friend of ours
who's a photographer and cinematographer, Jack McCoy.
So that's an interesting story in itself.
And he mentions in it part of,
at the beginning he mentions some of his Thai lifestyle,
his smuggling lifestyle.
To get a chance, Grajagan is a good book.
Yeah, and Mike, I wanted, if you're down with it,
I wanted to get you to come back and talk surfing.
There are a lot of surfers in the audience
who would enjoy some stories.
Well, sure.
Well, it's a connection.
We weren't just up in Thailand.
We were coming down to Bali and surfing in Java and Bali.
And we knew each other, it was that whole road
from Thailand down to Bali.
And it was pretty nice.
And it was pretty quiet back in those days too.
Bali wasn't overrun.
Oh, wow.
I don't surf really, but I understand.
Geelan, Uluwatu, all those special places.
Yep.
Yeah.
Must've been amazing.
Yeah, Geelan, that's what Grajagan is.
That's the name they gave it for some reason.
Well, really cool show.
I learned a lot.
And then-
I certainly did as well.
I'll dig into the fridge
and find some originals for you guys.
Some seeds so you guys can play with them.
I'm sure they got-
I don't know.
I don't know what their remark is.
I don't know.
I don't know if you're allowed down there, huh?
I don't grow.
I'm not a grower.
So you maybe give them to one of your buddies over there.
Sure.
Somebody you know, you know what I mean?
Then it's hands off.
And then when it's finished, you can go be friends with them.
Yeah, my son-in-law grows all mine
and just drops off bags of weed all the time.
So I don't have to do anything.
That's a good son-in-law.
Getting brownie points with the father-in-law.
Yeah.
So, well, cool.
I'm glad to have all the stuff you guys like, right?
Or remember.
Yeah.
Yeah, so just quickly, I think, you know,
on behalf of kind of the people watching,
you have about 260 people tuned into you right now.
And I think, you know, for me,
part of doing this conversation
is that it's kind of important for people
in the history of cannabis to kind of document
and tell their stories and their truths
from their perspective.
And so I thank you guys for,
Mike, I thank you.
I thank Dave for kicking me in the butt to get this going.
And Mike, I thank you for rallying some of your friends
and hopefully we can do this on a somewhat frequent
recurring basis and bring, mix and match different people.
And if that's fun for you guys, we'd all,
I'm sure love to listen.
And I like that you guys learn from each other.
You're like, oh, I never knew that.
And I think that's pretty cool.
So with that, I got to get into Santa Monica
to smoke a lot of weed.
All right, then.
Well, I had fun.
I know Dave did, and I think Mark did too.
I'd be happy to come on again.
I'm not sure what I could add, but you know, sure.
Well, we can talk surfing next time.
We're talking weed, it's great, right?
We're all like Pete said,
we're all learning from each other.
Yeah.
Yeah, we can talk weed.
We can talk weed.
We're about to go out.
Okay.
So anyway, I'll talk to you guys later.
It'll be good to get together again.
That was fun, thanks.
Nice to meet you, Mark.
Aloha.
Thanks, Mark.
Aloha.
I just wanted to say one more thing.
Sure, we could talk surfing, we could talk Thai weed,
but the other thing we didn't talk about
was really Southeast Asia
and how incredible it was to be there at that time.
And especially if you're a young man
like Mark and I and Dave were, I mean, it was glorious.
And-
Oh man.
It was basically undeveloped as far as I'm on.
I remember in Thailand,
there was not one resort hotel on the beach.
Or no, there was one in Thailand, one in Bali,
and that was it.
The island of Phuket, for example,
no development at all.
And Bali just thatched houses and bamboo houses,
that was all.
And no high rises anywhere.
So Southeast Asia was incredible at that time.
That's another thing to talk about.
Yeah.
And Mike, thanks for coming on and let me ask you questions.
I've been curious like a little monkey
for I don't know how long about this stuff.
No problem.
I enjoyed it too.
I might like to get back to you
because what we were talking about
is the ethnobotanical history of marijuana,
what Clark has spent a lot of time researching.
That interests me too.
And I have some ideas that are similar to his
and some ideas that are not,
that would be fun to explore.
Yeah, I would love it.
I love it.
I love it.
Well, if you had some way of doing the actual testing,
there's a couple of experiments I would like to do.
Yeah, so we'll get in touch
because there is another company doing this
and we'll see what we can learn together.
And we'll just exchange everybody's information
and see what we come up with.
Okay, very good.
Okay, well, thanks to you too, Peter.
Go get a go on Pete.
I will, I'm eager.
I'm excited.
Have a good night.
Thanks Mike.
Thanks everyone.
