Alright, today guys we've got an awesome interview for you.
We've got none other than the man himself, Dragon Slam Genetics in here.
He's going to be talking about his new lines that he's coming out with, some of the past
stuff that he's done.
We're going to have a smoke session as well.
So let's introduce him without further ado.
What's up Dragon Slam?
How you doing man?
Hey, pretty good man.
Thanks for having me.
So let's talk, you said you were working with smaller canopies now.
You made the big move from Hawaii to Oregon, so you're a little bit closer to us.
You're in the Pacific Northwest now.
Obviously the climate's got to be a lot better to deal with, especially when you're doing
indoor.
Oregon can be tricky still.
Oregon can still be tricky.
Yeah, especially where we're at.
We kind of went back to where we were before we moved to Hawaii.
So we're back in the Willamette Valley, which does have a fairly, it's nicer than Hawaii's
growing season, but it's still, I mean, it's certainly not the Emerald Triangle.
We still get some months or some years, I should say, the season will be October 1st
and that's all you get.
And some years you get lucky and usually a lot of rain and a lot of fog and a lot of
gray days.
Whereas Hawaii was the endless humidity.
That's all you get is the humidity.
So it's definitely, we're kind of just in a rental right now, but we'll be getting a
farm again at some point.
But in the meantime, we're just doing some indoor, kind of micro, I guess you could say.
We've got two five by five flower tents and a two by four flower tent.
So it's considerably smaller than what I would usually be running, but that's just the sacrifice
we had to do to move.
Yep.
You got to sacrifice some things just to keep growing the plant.
Sometimes life changes and the plant just keeps going.
Yeah.
What are you working on in those rooms, man?
What's new with Dragon Slave Genetics?
What's to come?
So the big project that I'm focusing in on for probably the next year or two is going
to be my MacBerry Moonshine line.
I have one tent that I just reversed the modified MacBerry Moonshine.
So that's the GMO to the MacBerry Moonshine was that original cross.
And so I have a keeper out of that that was found by CanEssentials here in Oregon.
They're a rec farm.
And on their first run, it was at like 4.6% terps and like 26% THC.
And then in their second run, it went over 6% terps and almost 30% THC.
So garlic skunk notes, crushes here in Oregon, they run greenhouse, like light supplementation
greenhouses all dialed in, but still an Oregon greenhouse.
You still have the humidity and it's a cut that's been proven out for them.
And it's everywhere right now in Oregon.
Pretty much they're hitting every dispensary here and people are loving it.
So it's one.
This reversal didn't make as much pollen as I was hoping.
It will make some seed, but I'm going to have to reverse it again to really make the commercial
size to be able to release anyone.
So that'll happen again.
And then the next, my next reversal, which that cycle is vegging right now is the Blackberry
Moonshine BX1 reversal.
So I'm going to make S1s and then I'm also going to make a feminized version of the Hallie
Moonshine line, as I call it, which is the Blackberry Moonshine to the modified Mackberry
Moonshine. So it has a Mackberry on both sides, just, you know, different moms, but the same
dad on both crosses.
So it should be more consistent than like a normal F1, you know, have more of the same
traits from having the same lineages, but it'll still, it should still have that, that
vigor that we all, you know, that we all want.
Those are the, yeah, those are the big ones for the next year anyway.
That Hayole looked really good and I'm definitely expecting to to get some concentrate of
that, that last one that you were talking about, the Mackberry Moonshine, that sounds
delicious.
Yeah, it is.
It generally comes out with like a tangerine candy or like a tangerine kind of sweet
funk kind of going on is generally how the Mackberry Moonshine itself is.
And then the Blackberry Moonshine BX1 has more of the fuel, sour, raunch kind of to it.
And then the modified has that garlic from the GMO and like some skunky, you know, sour
notes. It doesn't have like the Thai food side of the GMO, which, you know, some people
love GMO, some people hate it.
It makes great crosses and people love it for concentrates.
But, you know, not everyone loves the Terp.
Yeah, absolutely.
Speaking of nasty stuff, I've got to bring it up because there's so many of my followers
that have been growing it.
We've talked about it before and how much I love it.
The garlic stash, man.
Is there any new plans working with the garlic stash?
It won't be this year, but I do what I want to do with that line is I want to find a male
out of that garlic stash and I want to hit it to the modified Mackberry.
That's my short term plan.
And at the same time, I probably will when I hunt through the line looking for the male, I'll
probably look through females as well and see if I can find a good breeder mom that I
could keep to maybe reverse someday.
But I love the garlic Terps.
I find them so anti-stress.
You know, that's the big thing with I find with the garlic is it's really good, powerful
smoke that you can function and you can get through your day.
And, you know, there's a lot of crazy shit going on in the world.
There's a lot to get stressed out about.
And it's just one that it just kind of helps melt that away.
So I definitely, you know, I'm going to be putting more garlic into more of my lines,
especially for the next year.
That's a good news, man, because back when you first made that one, are you familiar
with OK Calix at all?
We've had him on the show before.
Somewhat. I don't I don't know if I've met him personally, but I, you know, through social
media and such. He grew that garlic stash for quite a while, and the concentrate off
that was so frickin beautiful, man.
There's quite a few cultivars out there nowadays that have or they claim to have a
garlic terp, but I have not come across anything quite like the garlic stash where it
was like that. Even GMO, where it was that overwhelming fucking garlicky oniony
nastiness. And I love it.
I love that. Yeah.
Yeah, I'm a big fan.
And I think like the GMO, I like it by itself, but I actually prefer it in crosses.
I like to get away from kind of that that that cookie side of it and get more into just
the straight sour, the straight ranch, because with the GMO, you still have that underbite
of like that Thai food and kind of cookie esque note to it.
It's one that is especially depending on how far in the flower you take it.
GMO can be a pretty, you know, GMO at eight weeks and GMO at 13 weeks.
You wouldn't even believe it's the same damn plant.
So, I mean, it could be pretty different.
Where do you like to take it down?
Where's your harvest brain on the GMO?
Pretty much as a blanket statement, I'll say I take everything way further than most
people do. I smoke pretty much from the time I get up to the time I go to bed.
I have a fucked up tolerance.
So, I mean, I'm I'm an all day heavy smoker.
And so the early harvest just doesn't have enough potency for me.
I like the I like to I like it really ripe.
Generally, like I hear people say eight weeks and 10 weeks and I'm like, I'm not really
even looking at chopping at eight weeks unless I'm outdoor and, you know, the weather is
forcing me to. But indoors, I don't pull anything usually under 10 or 11 if it's
something for me to smoke.
And usually more like 12, 13 is usually where I take things to.
You really get the full profile and the full potency that you're going to get out of the
line going deep.
That takes a lot of patience going that long, man.
Congrats on that one.
Are you seeing any different in the out crossings that you're making with like the
MacBerry Moonshine?
Is that harvest time a little bit sooner?
Is it about the same?
Most of my selections have been done in tough climates.
So generally, just by that fact, I'm usually taking the faster phenos.
That's just, you know, that's part of how I have to select when I've been in tough climate.
So generally, the longer I work something, the faster it's going to flower just based on
how I select plants.
And especially in Hawaii, because the days are so consistent and because it's tropical
and so close to the equator, especially in Hawaii, things just flower so much faster.
That's for sure. You had a ton of challenges growing over there in Hawaii.
You told me about that last time.
Would you like to tell our followers a little bit about what makes growing in Hawaii so
fucking hard?
Yeah, I mean, if you take just the simple fact that it's 3000 miles away from a land
mass and everything is shipped in.
So across the board, everything is three times more expensive, you know, like a bag of
soil here on the mainland.
You know, 15 bucks for a bag of fox farms in Hawaii is thirty five dollars to fifty
dollars if they even have it.
And then the actual climate itself fights you at every step of the way.
Like at our spot, we were at 900 foot elevation.
We were about six miles away as the crow flies to the ocean.
And at our spot, 300 to 500 inches of rain a year is pretty average and normal for that
climate zone.
Daily, the humidity would usually be no lower than 80 percent.
Most days would be closer to 90 percent in the daytime.
And then at night, 99 percent humidity every single night.
There's no frost.
So there's nothing, no snow, nothing ever resets your pest pressures and your fungus
pressures. So everything can breed year round fungus, you know, from mites to I mean,
every every pest basically can grow unchecked.
And also because it's so isolated, most of the things that we would consider to be
beneficial that would somewhat put a pressure back onto the pest doesn't exist.
So it's a it's a real recipe for a petri dish effect where, you know, you're in the
jungle and every single if it if it lives in the jungle, it's going to be in your
garden and there's no preventing it.
You can deal with it as best you can.
But I mean, I would find I'd have to run, you know, 300 seeds.
Hawaii itself would kill the first 200 phenos just from mold from Septoria, from stem
rot. You know, in that kind of in that kind of zone, it's it's it's really tough, really
tough to grow. And then on top of that, even if you, you know, the stars align, you're on
your game, you know, you get up to the finish.
Well, you're in a zone that the humidity is never less than 85 percent.
So then you go, OK, well, how do you dry and cure flower off grid when it's 85 percent
humidity? And there's no easy answer to that except for, you know, boatloads of
infrastructure and money in order to overcome the climate.
And then like even let's say you're with your buddies and you got some fire and you roll
a joint and you roll too slow or someone starts talking, you know, and then you got to
light it. Well, it's picked up all the humidity and now it's not going to you're not
gonna be able to smoke it because it's too damn wet.
So, I mean, it's as a grower and as a smoker, it's a it's a really goddamn challenging
place. Yeah, that's I mean, a lot of people don't even consider things like that with
that kind of humidity.
It's going to be hard to spray anything, keep anything, you know, pest resistant at all
or, you know, kill off the bugs that you already have.
That's pretty fucking intense, man.
Yeah, it's a tough place.
And then on top of that, you add a culture that I'm an outsider.
I mean, I am I am according to them, I am the epitome of what they don't like.
They don't like people that come from the mainland, buy a piece of property.
You know, it's according to them, it's their it's their island.
It's their you know, it's their spot.
They don't want people there.
And when you're on a when you're on a rock in the middle of the ocean, there's no
hiding. You know, everyone knows your business.
Everyone knows who you are.
Everyone knows if you're not a local, everyone knows.
And that makes you a target.
So I mean, from security, small community vibes.
Yeah. Yep.
You you know, it's a you have to absolutely love it.
It's the most expensive state to live.
So you have to fucking love it.
And we didn't. I mean, that's what it came down to for us is we didn't love it enough to
to deal with it.
And we are so much happier to be back here with family.
And, you know, you don't know what you have until it's gone type of thing.
And we didn't realize how how big it would be.
And then the pandemic hit.
So we weren't even able to travel off the island for 18 months.
So, I mean, it was it was it was a cauldron of of of stress and, you know, trying to
figure it out and trying to overcome these obstacles.
And, you know, we're happy we did it.
We learned a lot. I fucking especially about cannabis and and my genetics in particular.
I learned a lot. I learned the exactly like exactly the threshold of what cannabis can
take and what each line itself can take.
That's awesome, man. Yeah, there's no way to really learn that unless you're thrown into
it, right? Oh, yeah.
I mean, I I was humbled really quick.
I thought, you know, I've been growing a long time.
I was like, oh, I'll figure it out.
You know how hard could it be?
I got this. Yeah, I got this.
You know, I'll have a rough run or two is what I figured.
And, you know, and I get there and, you know, it's it's constant pain.
Yeah. Being over in that environment that obviously had some play into you breeding
towards, you know, moisture resistance and the high humidity and rot, botrytis and
things like this. Is that something that you think you're going to continue breeding
for being an organ?
Yes, in the long term, yes.
At this exact this year of my life, no, just because I'm indoor only, you know,
indoor, I can't like if if you don't have the pressure, you can't select for it.
So for the next year, I'm going to be focusing more on feminized lines and lines
that are I hate to use the word hype or, you know, exotic or whatever you want to call
it, but more showboaty type lines, you know, more indoor type stuff is going to be what's
coming out for at least the next year.
Nothing wrong with that, man.
Nothing wrong with that at all.
We have a question from a follower.
I think it's one of yours.
Course says, any chance you ever plan on doing a one to one?
Yeah, I actually have two or three that I've made the big one that, you know, I pretty
much pass it to anyone that wants it.
I don't charge for it. I call it the dragon's remedy.
It's the sour tsunami cut to the dragon stash.
And it's pretty easy to find the one to one stuff.
And then you can also find some some more like 15 to 17 percent CBD and like three to
five percent DHC if you know as well.
And that one it has a nice chirp.
It kind of has that sour diesel with some berry or some citrus coming from the dragon
stash side. And that one, you know, I've got a lot of seeds.
I made a lot of them. And, you know, anyone can DM me and I'll send them a pack of the
dragon's remedy. That sounds awesome, man.
That's something I definitely need to get into.
P's been pushing me to to smoke more of the CBD heavies to get off cigarette smoking.
So that might be something I'll be hitting you up about pretty here.
Yeah. Panda says, which garlic stash do you prefer, the 13 or the 21?
I personally prefer the 21.
The 21 has more of the GMO's garlic side, more of the skunk side, more of the, you know,
more of the parts of the GMO that I like.
The 13 is more OGKB heavy and comes out more garlic cookie forward.
It definitely has more of that dough side that, you know, cookies is known for.
The 13 flowers much faster.
Like most people are seeing, you know, most people I see pull that like seven to nine
weeks. And then the 21 is more in line with the dragon stash GMO side, which is, you know,
nine to 11 is generally where I see people pulling the 21.
So it really comes down to your preference.
GGG wants to know, will Jeff continue expand the land race heirloom preservation and unique
crosses he's done in the past?
Yeah, I don't know which ones I'm going to do next.
Probably I think the next one I'm going to do is I think I'm going to continue my
Panamanian line, which is the Panama Red to the Bengi Haze.
I took that. Yeah, it's a really fun one.
I've got some photos to it.
I was able to do one out in California and it means fucking massive.
18 foot tall, 30 foot around monster plants.
And it has that kind of incense ammonia kind of lemon cleaner side like the Panama has
with the Bengi Haze is like a faster flowering subcompact haze.
You know, that one's like.
You know, made for made for the shorter season is where that Bengi Haze went.
So it kind of has something that you can do outdoors in the Panamanian.
Like most growers would be able to finish it.
So it's not so exact or so thinly that, you know, it takes a madman to try to do it.
I'll probably take that one to F3.
That'll probably be the next one.
And then I also want to get I want to take the Vietnamese black one more step.
I feel like that one I it needs I did.
I already did an open pollination on it.
And now I want to do my next one.
I actually want to select.
I want to go through and I want to find a find the best female that I can.
But that will probably be a while down the road, at least a year, I'd say.
I don't think I knew that you didn't.
Oh, P of that Vietnamese black.
That's pretty awesome, man.
I've been wanting to grow that one for a long time.
What'd you find in that heritage?
Yeah, we did a Vietnamese black and then we also did a Vietnamese Delat in Hawaii.
And so the black is more like swamp turps.
There was like some cedarwood, sandalwood kind of turps in there.
There was some like pine sol.
We had one that was like kind of like geraniums, kind of like that herbal tea
almost.
And then the Delat was more like sharp citrus and sharp lacquer, like really
more nose assaulting.
Whereas the black was more like pleasant.
It's kind of I don't know if I'm conveying what I mean, but they're both really
racy, really long flower.
Growing them next to each other, you would believe that that they are both from
Vietnam, but they are a little different.
The Delat will go more colorful, especially towards the end of flower, whereas the
Vietnamese black is more like straight black.
So is that something you would say it was true breeding for?
Is that black color?
Yeah.
That's impressive.
How about the high off of it?
What was the highlight?
Heard mixed reviews.
Well, I mean, it depends on if you like thin leaves.
It's definitely fucking potent.
If you don't like thin leaves, it's going to be really overpowering.
It's pretty, it's easy to overdo.
There's no ceiling.
Like the more you smoke, I mean, it's pretty soaring.
I won't say it.
Some people find it paranoid.
I personally did it and my wife did it.
I know some people though, some people just get paranoid off of thin leaves.
So I can't really say on that.
I didn't get paranoid, but it definitely, it's a racy, you know, nothing like modern
genetics.
There's absolutely no bag appeal.
No, you know, it's really wispy long flower.
You're not going to fill rooms with it.
I mean, it's, it's bag appeal means so much to people these days.
And some of the best smokes I've had are from the worst looking buds.
Oh, I almost guarantee it.
You know, 90% of the time, the only time I've ever found it not to be true was the
dragon stash.
And that's, that was pure, pure dumb luck.
The red phenos end up being the terpias.
Every other line I've ever seen, you know, usually the green phenos smokes better.
It's usually the way it goes.
Tips straight from dragon slime genetics.
I'd say it's big in the market though, right now.
I mean, people want the fast flowering and they want purple and they want gas.
I mean, that seems to be, and they want hype and they want them.
I mean, that's, that's what I hear anyway.
Everyone that bends my seed, they all ask the same thing.
I mean, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not
bending my seed.
They all ask, all ask the same questions.
Yeah.
And you've really been getting into the fems.
I do want to talk about that quite a bit.
What was it that calling for people asking for your genetics feminized that made you
get into it?
Or were you fucking around with it?
Um, it, it actually was more so because I wanted to preserve cuts.
Um, Hawaii decimated my library.
Nearly every, everything from the last six to eight years that I've hunted Hawaii killed
it.
Um, I have a few things that I put into tissue culture with node labs that I'll be able to
get back, but, um, I pretty much crop after crop, watch more of my mom's die off.
And so I, that's why I wanted to get into fems.
Um, I reversed my orange dream keeper, which I no longer have.
So I'm so, so thankful that I was able to reverse it before Hawaii killed it.
Um, so that's, that's why I got into the family is because of the understanding.
And especially now when I first started growing and when I would be buying seeds, I
would never buy them.
You know, usually I, I'm going to buy a seed line.
I'm looking for males as well because I want to continue.
I want to work the line.
So, and then on top of that, most of the fems that I had run that I had seen run, you
know, the early process of a lot of people used through like stressing or through root
cutting.
There's all kinds of crazy ways that people have used stress to make a feminized seed.
It's only more recently that people have been doing it more like with, you know, sprays
or STS or the elite spray, which I just, I just think that's a better process.
Um, you know, anything that's doing the, like the root manipulations to me, that's a
stress that the plant should be able to overcome.
Like I'm trying to breed stronger lines.
And so I've personally always kind of not been too impressed with them just because of
the process of how to make them.
Um, so it's been more the longer I've been in the game and more I've seen, the more
research I've done and the more people I've seen doing them and doing them right,
especially, you know, my mind is kind of open to them.
Um, but I do know market wise, that's what people want, um, more than regular.
So, I mean, it's kind of, it's kind of both really, you know, serving the need and, you
know, doing what made sense for me at the time.
Absolutely, man.
Um, you said you, you make your own spray, right?
Your own reversal spray.
Yeah.
These look, every time I've done it, I have, I think, I think I'm going to try next time
I'm going to use the pre-made elite spray.
This, uh, last one, well, and actually all three of them really like the orange dream
didn't really want to reverse either.
It did.
Um, and I, you know, I did get a good amount of seeds of a few of the lines.
Um, and then the Mac dragon reversal, that one went really well, but I also
sprayed 12 huge plants.
So I had, you know, backups of backups.
I had a whole army of plant matter that I was, that was being sprayed.
So just by the sheer size of what I was able to do, I had enough to pollinate the
greenhouse.
And then I tried with the, um, GMO cut and it wouldn't reverse for me.
And then I just did the modified and it did like it made male pollen sacks and a few of
them did have pollen, but for the 99% of them were totally pollen free.
Um, so I think the next time I'm going to try the elite, um, stuff and see if, you
know, if I can get a better reversal out of it.
So do you think the amount of pollen that comes off of these females, is it directly
related to like the type of reversal spray that you use or the compounds that you use
on it?
Or do you think there's some genetics that the females just, just like males, there's
some that just naturally don't make very much seed or drop very much pollen, even
though they're great.
Yeah, I, I think it's both.
Um, I think that it's both factors.
Some females are just really hard to reverse.
Um, you know, and some like the orange dreams, the thing with that one is that when it
was, it was making a shit ton of pollen, but the problem was it was so dense and so
thick.
I mean, that's what that line does is it makes huge football colas.
And so it was actually so dense that the pollen sacks wouldn't open properly.
So all the pollen that I was able to get and what actually seeded was for me, literally
manually opening, pulling everything apart.
Cause anywhere that the pollen just would stick to the cluster, it would mold really
fast.
Like within two days you'd go out and that'd be moldy and you'd look and you'd
investigate and pull it apart.
And it's like, oh, well there was a big old glob of pollen that fell out that just
stuck right there on the plant matter and molded.
Um, and then some plants, you know, it's just, some are finicky.
Um, you know, as, as just the nature of farming it and it's, um, you know, it's how
much effort you want to put into it.
Like the, like the modified, I'm going to get the damn thing to reverse.
I'm going to make seed off of it.
It might take me a few tries, but it's going to happen.
Um, so I mean, it's, it's, it's farming.
It's always, it's always a pain in the ass.
I mean, there's always, there's always something.
It's still agriculture.
Something.
I mean, like the perfect example, like the, and even males do this as I guess my
example, like the last cycle in Hawaii that we did, it was kind of funny.
We had already decided that we were going to put the farm up for sale.
We hadn't decided time yet.
And I, so I had a crumble cake male that when I stress tested it, it was fucking
phenomenal, solid, beautiful, took way more abuse than what I thought it was going to
be able to, especially, I mean, that's a cookie type line.
Um, and so in the stress testing, it was solid.
And so I had a whole greenhouse, 12 by 30 foot greenhouse.
I mean, beautiful plant, huge male, it would have made mountains of seed.
And, um, it threw female parts.
It didn't do it in stress testing, but it did.
And what should have been the cake run, you know, it was getting fed.
Everything was a quote unquote on track.
Um, and so that's actually, cause for me, if, if a male throws female parts, it's a
wash, like that's not worth breeding with.
So it was like, I chopped the garden down and I went up and told my wife and I was
like, well, I think we just got the fucking sign that we're out of here.
Cause that cycle that we were waiting on just, maybe that was the universe telling
us to get the fuck off the rock.
I don't know.
But, um, anyway, that, I mean, that's, and that's what the male that already had gone
through stress testing.
So, I mean, that's farming.
So I have a huge question to ask you here.
You mentioned males throwing off female parts.
I've actually talked to a couple of breeders where they said they prefer males like that
because they hold that female genetic and the offspring are more likely to produce
feminized, uh, progeny.
What do you think about that?
I think that's bro science.
I think Herm is Herm.
That's what I think.
Um, instability is instability, no matter how you slice it.
If a plant is willing to Herm and you use it, you are passing along genetics that have
propensity to Herm.
Um, and for me, this is, uh, this is my legacy.
This is what I leave for the fucking world.
So for me, you know, I try to do the absolute best work I can.
And I personally, people don't forget when you see that one of their rooms, they do not
forget that.
That is something that, you know,
It leaves a mark.
It does.
It does.
Um, you know, fuck up someone's cycle from Hermy.
Yep.
Oh, it's never their fault.
It's always, it's always their fault.
It's always their fault.
So just to play devil's advocate here, you're saying absolutely no instability is
instability.
How about males that throw resin that are heavy on resin?
That's usually typically a female, you know, trait.
Um, males always have a certain amount of resin, but the ones that are overly coated
with it.
How do you feel about those?
I love those males.
Those are the ones that I tend to look for.
Um, if a male has grease, then I usually the prodigy will have grease and I shouldn't even
say what people want to do with what they're going to run for themselves.
Have a happy, like some of the greatest strains in cannabis history are accidents.
I mean, that's, that's the way, you know what I mean?
So it's more just.
It's understanding that if you're passing that along in your genetics and then you're
selling those genetics, that's the difference.
And even still, if you have a male that does that, it does throw, let's say it throws a few
hairs. Let's say it throws a fucking hundred hairs.
I mean, let's go both extremes.
If you run through the genetics yourself, you actually test those seeds and you stress test
those seeds and you see, oh, well, they're solid.
The male might have had issues, but if that didn't get passed along, but that's where stress
testing comes in.
And that's where, you know, running those seeds and, you know, everyone has their own
different standards.
You know, this is every time I open Instagram, there's a hundred new breeders.
So, I mean, this is everyone's different standards.
Everyone has their own paintbrush, so to speak.
For me, I don't want to grow herms.
I don't want to sell herm seed.
So for me, from my selection, a herm is a kill.
That's a solid point.
That's something that I get behind for sure.
I find it very important to do stress testing on any genetics that you're providing.
There's a lot of people, I mean, I'm not going to say names, but there's one guy in
specific that drives me insane.
And he always talks about how cannabis naturally has that hermaphrodite trait because of
its ability to reproduce itself, even if it doesn't get pollinated to carry on those
genetics. So his claim is that you don't have to stress test any of these seeds.
There's going to be herms in everything.
How do you feel about that?
Yeah, that's an interesting standard to have.
I mean, if we're going to go off of that, I mean, think of all the plants that we have
made off of.
So, I mean, that's our job as breeders, in my opinion, is to push the line forward and to
make the line better for the for the next run.
And so for me, yeah, there are a lot of lines that do that.
It is a self-preservation tactic.
That is 100 percent true.
It is a self-preservation tactic.
And it's our job, at least for me anyway, it's my job as a breeder to minimize that, to
remove it from as best I can from lines.
And if it's present, like perfect example, I made the peanut butter breath orange dreams.
About 30 percent of them herm.
That's like I've, you know, 20, 30 percent.
That's probably even higher than what it really is.
It just sticks out in my mind.
So I always over exaggerate for in my mind.
But the ones that don't herm are phenomenal.
And so I've had people that are like, oh, bro, you know, I got this from this person or that
person and it was phenomenal.
I want to grow it. And I tell them, well, I don't sell those seeds.
They're they herm. This is their, you know, their rate.
I've had people that are like, well, I don't give a shit.
I want to run them anyway.
You know, everyone can make that own their own choice for their garden.
And, you know, some people, a lot of people have actually come out of that line, which to
me was a wasted project.
Like once I thought of that rate was that high to me, like it just sits in the back of my
fridge and say, well, maybe I'll use it for a seed sprout tea someday.
But that's, you know, that's about it.
But.
Yeah, I stayed mine for and I didn't see a big I didn't see a big jump over like a corn
SSD. So yeah, I end up just being food.
Yeah. Boil them, shuck them, put them on salad.
We're good. Yeah.
So what would you say was an acceptable herm rate?
That's a very, very good question and something that I really I don't want to see more than
one or two herm reports and I am for those herm reports, I want them to have a reason.
And I want to be able to find the reason.
But generally, you know, I my standard is I expect that everyone that pops a pack of my
seeds is going to find something terpy, something that they can finish in their climate
zone, something that has resistance.
You know, that's great smoke in every pack.
That's basically where my standard is.
And if they can't if that can't be done, then, you know, like my fridge is full of lines.
It's ridiculous. It's easy to make seed.
Let me just say that is really easy to make seed, but making sure that it's actually worth
something and, you know, worth growing.
Because, I mean, I know how it is for me.
I only have so much space.
What I put in that space matters.
And I know that that's that's more the norm than, oh, well, we go ham.
You can pop whatever the hell you want.
So, you know, that's what that's what I try to aim for.
Absolutely.
I appreciate you saying that, man.
Definitely. You can breed for stability.
That's absolutely doable.
And these people that are telling you, you know, it doesn't matter.
It does.
They're just not willing to put in the work as far as I'm concerned.
So let me ask you the hard question now.
Out of everything that you've ever made, let's say top three, what would be the top three
strains so far that you go, I want this to represent what I've done?
Well, the first one would be easy, Dragon's Dash.
That is the sum of, you know, all of my time growing and breeding has gone into making
that strain.
And it's going to be one that I'm going to continue working.
In fact, I actually just ran out of the S3 Green version.
So it's probably going to move up the list because that is our flagship line.
So I've got the red version and I've got the green version S3 of the Dragon's Dash.
The red version tends to go like blueberry fuel, blueberry funk.
You know, generally those are the words that I hear when people describe the blue are the
Dragon's Dash Red Pheno.
The green is the one that I've been using for a long time.
The Dragon's Dash Red Pheno.
The green is more like a citrus kush or like a sour citrus and not like that tangy type
terp, like the actual true citrus peels, like actual fresh citrus, not that artificial,
like candy tangy terp.
And so the number two would probably be probably the modified Mackberry Moonshine would
probably be number two.
Yeah, it's one I'm really happy with.
You know, it's a damn good one.
And so far everyone that's tried it loves it.
I'd say probably number three would probably be the Missy's Dash actually.
So that's my wife's favorite Congolese kush to my Dragon's Dash.
So it's basically my wife's favorite strain to my favorite strain combined into one.
And that last I heard anyway, I don't know if it still is, but it has set the terp record
in Massachusetts in their legal system at like 6.7, what they had set it at.
And it's one that's been really special because obviously it's a lot of people have
been really special because obviously it's one of my wife's favorites and one of my
favorites. So that's probably those three.
The Blackberry Moonshine probably would also like that's probably a close tie to third.
Yeah, I think I mean, I've made a lot of lines over the years, you know, so it's really
hard to narrow them down, but I'd say those are probably the tops.
So let's hear a little bit about what made you decide to make your own strains.
What brought you in where you're going? I'm going to try my hand at breeding.
Yeah, so I grew up in California and that's where I learned to grow.
I was in like the Amador Calaveras County line area.
And in that area, you could pretty much any strain could go out in a 200 gallon pot.
And if you could keep it watered, you'd see the potential that plant was.
You could pretty much finish anything. And then I moved to Oregon after a divorce.
And I brought all of my California genetics with me.
And that first season in Oregon, I got my ass handed to me with mold.
And at that time, when I was looking around, I could not find people in my area that were
breeding, that were making outdoor seeds. And so for me, I've always like I do indoor.
I love indoor. But what I my passion is, is the outdoors, the full term monsters.
So that's generally where my focus goes. Indoor, you know, just dial your rooms in,
but outdoor, that's genetics, that's what your plants can take.
And so when I had that year when everything molded on me that I brought from California,
it was like, Okay, well, what am I going to run next year? And then it was like, well,
fuck, there's there's not much that I'm seeing. So it was like, research, you know, okay, well,
this feed line has good, you know, people have said, Okay, well, this does good in their climate
in Canada, or this, you know, oh, there, this guy's breeding out in Maine, or this, you know,
it was like, trying to find these, these strains that I heard about that, you know,
oh, someone said it did good on mold resistance. So I ran, you know, a shit ton of all these
different lines trying to find, okay, well, this one, and this one, okay, and then it was,
okay, well, now I need to make seeds, combine them, and run them the next year. And I mean,
that's pretty much how I started was, was for myself, like I, I would have never predicted
dragon flame genetics, like I would have never predicted selling seeds or, you know,
anyone even giving a shit about my seeds, to be honest. So it was, you know, that's just where
it developed. And then, you know, word of mouth, and, you know, people hear about it. And, you
know, I was at that time, I was selling a lot of pounds. That's pretty much what was paying
for everything was flour. So it was, you know, just all of it combining really,
that's how DFG and breeding started.
Hell yeah, man. What's been some of your favorite smokes that you didn't create?
Oh, well, I'm a sucker for a great OG, TK92 OG, SFE, the, the classics.
Death Star is another one of, you know, one of my all time favorites.
The old Super Skunk Cut, I think that one comes to mind a lot that I think about. And then one
of my buddies, Hemlock was what his handle was back in the old days on the forums. And he gave
me a shit ton of seeds. One of them was Dream Lotus Sensei Star. And he called it FUBAR. And
it's still to this day, what in my mind, what I compare everything potency wise to, I mean, true,
to this day, still one of the most true one hitter quitter. I mean, at that time,
I was moving pounds like crazy. I had a roommate, we were both all we did was move pounds. And so
we saw a shit ton of flour. We were in Sacramento at that time. So I saw a shit ton of California
flour, really great flour, and had access to it all the time. And I remember rolling that joint,
and I hit it and I handed it in to him. And we were trying to play Call of Duty. And we pass it
back and forth. And we both were both just going down into the fucking chair. Dude, why are we
dying so much? You know? And I mean, and it was that was some I mean, although honestly, a lot of
a lot of Hemlock's lines had that were really phenomenal. He's probably out of anyone unknown,
especially. I mean, if he had marketed and branded himself, he'd be a pillar in his
community, but he didn't. So he's an unknown person just, you know, fire.
Some people just get their genetics out there and are happy with that.
Yep. So is there is there any breeders that you truly respect? That you would look forward to?
Yeah, yeah. Like two-tone genetics is one we've done some co labs together. Great,
great palate high standards. Great breeder, great guy. matchmaker genetics out of Hawaii
is another, you know, passion. First in breeding. He's breeding in Hawaii as well for tough climates.
Two dog seeds is here in Oregon. Another great long time grower, very passion forward and his
work meticulous about sourcing and, you know, doing it right. He kind of has a bad rap for
record naming things. But Hayesman, I've had a lot of great work out of Hayesman's lines. But
you know, you kind of got to be careful about what's what sometimes. But he's,
what's what sometimes. But he's, you know, he knows how to select males. I'll say that for
sure. He knows how the plant works and how to how to make nice lines. The lucky dog seed co is one
that I've, you know, I'm like digging through their packs, and I'm going to be digging through
more of their packs looking for some of the old school chem type stuff. El Jefe is great as well,
old school, you know, old school guy. But I mean, I think I think it's pretty much for me,
it's the people that that I gravitate to are people that are doing it for the passion of the
plant, not for, you know, making the clouder the money. Yeah, you know, you got to be driven by
the passion. Yeah, keep in the people that don't. You see it. You see it real quick. Yep. They
might wear a mask for a year or two, and then boom, it's out there. Yeah, it's funny. I've
always heard the saying, hype is a test of a strain, but time is a test of a breeder. And,
you know, you're around long enough, your reputation comes out, you know, who, who you are,
what your standards are, what you are putting out into the world. You can't hide that shit forever,
people figure it out. Exactly. So what have you been smoking on the most lately?
So I picked up from Cannes Essentials, I grabbed a half, I think of the modified Macberry,
when we first landed. So I've been smoking mostly on that and then going to the dispensary right now,
sadly. You know, just grabbing what I can find that looks decent enough. And I have my first
cycle coming down. I'm week six right now. So I'll have my homegrown. I'm so looking forward to my
own. Nothing better than your own. You know, the way that you like your flowers. So there's just
nothing that compares to that. I want to thank all of my followers for coming in,
all of your followers for coming in and checking out the stream. This was an absolutely great
interview. And I look forward to having you on sessions. I don't know if you're willing to smoke
on camera, but if you are, we'll have to, we'll have to get you in for an episode of sessions.
Oh shit. We're having our smoke session now, people. How's that for the answer? I can't let
you do it alone, brother. We got to get a dab in here. Was that that Macberry moonshine?
Yeah. Yeah. So this is what I've got left. What a jar. Yeah.
No, they, I, you know, it's funny. It's one of those things. It's so surreal to go into a shop
and see something that you made on the shelf, but to see something that like they grow with love
and their plant and you can like, when I toured their farm, I've been to a lot of shit show rec
facilities. Let me fucking say that I've been to a lot of them. I don't vouch for very many. Like
I can count on one hand how many I will vouch for. And they are one of them. Everything I've
grabbed from them has been, you know, truly, truly done well. And so it's really awesome to see
someone that, I mean, they're filling greenhouses with that cut. So it's really cool to see someone
that's, you know, using one of my strains that doesn't write. That's always such a great feeling.
Do you mind, mind sharing a horror story?
I think the biggest one that I, my wife and I still laugh about, he was down in Grant Pass
and it was one of those facilities when I walked in, my wife and I looked at each other and we like,
what could we do with this fucking spot? Like it was gorgeous. So it was right on the river and
it was probably 50 acres. And they had this crazy like octagon, two-story building. And then on one
side they had huge warehouse space and then right in front, it was like picture F next to the river.
They had a, they had the permit to do a tier two here in Oregon. And I came down in the consulting
row to try to help save their grow. It's basically what my, my wife and I were doing. And we were
meeting was four and I got there and they had, I think they had nine growers working there.
And my wife, she's not a grower. She's a nurse. She came with me and sure her not being the
grower, she's just exposed to it because of me. She walked into their warehouse and was like,
what the fuck are you guys doing? And they had literally every pest. They had russets,
they had root aphids, they had PM, they had them all. They had shelves of Avid, they had shelves
of Eagle 20 and Forbid and everything you're not supposed to be fucking doing. And I mean,
hundreds of lights in their warehouse. And this was like mid June, July. So in my mind,
my plants at that time were four foot tall already. So I'm going to this rec space. I'm
expecting to see a field of fucking plants. They didn't have anything planted yet. And they were
making, I think they said like $12,000 was what each grower was making a month there. And I
straight up looked at all of them. I was like, y'all fucking robbing this guy because their garden
was, I mean, straight up everything you weren't supposed to be doing. And the, the owner was there
and he had been in a motorcycle accident or something. And he literally pulled out his
Viking and right in front of my wife and I had started like crushing it up and starting it and
looked at her and you're a nurse, you should be okay with this. And we're like, you're fucking
crazy. Like no. And then he got a call from a dispensary that they were like, are we need those
clones that you promised us? And he was like, Oh, yeah, I'll bring them down. I got some moms for
you. And I looked at him. I was like, I just told you all of those plants should be fucking burned.
Like, start over just burn them like they're not they're fucking infested and you've been
using every chemical. So now they're, they're fucking immune to avid. Like you're not going
to go put that on a fucking shelf to give to patients. This was in the, you know, very early
days of rec when they still had medical, like you could go to the dispensary. And if you were a
medical patient, you might be buying that flower sprayed with fucking avid. And I was like,
Oh, man, I was I still pisses me off to this day. And he did. I mean, he ended up taking those
fucking cuts to the dispensary to put on the shelf fucking russet mites, rude aphids, braid with
fucking everything. And obviously, I didn't end up taking the job because if you're going to be
that like, that's your morals, then you can go fuck yourself. No shit. Those russets man,
just those alone are a fucking nightmare. Rude aphids on top of it. Oh, well, that's an insane
story, man. Yeah, I take russet mites any day over the week over rude aphids. Rude aphids are
like they're never had a fave. And so I can, but I've had them, I've had them once and I will never
fucking forget it. Like, Oh man, fuck those pests. And you had the russets too. Oh, I've had russets
a few times over the years. Russets are, if you use wettable sulfur, pretty easy to knock out
russets. You know, those for a while, they were really a pain in the ass. But once, once you
figured out wettable sulfur, they're pretty easy to get rid of. So I feel that every one of these
obstacles that you face in agriculture is a learning experience because once it's happened,
it's already there. You might as well learn from it instead of getting into that state of mind
where you're just crushed and upset about it, you know, and just kind of given up it, everything
happens for a reason. And that builds that knowledge of how to deal with that pest of how
to deal with that situation. So when I first got russets, I did not take it seriously. I took it
like most pets that I have met up to there. We're going to try a few different things. We're going
to start with like, you know, the lowest chance and, uh, kind of build up to it. I've already
lost this crop. I'm not okay with flowering these out, you know, they're damaged, they're stressed
out. So we might as well see what works on these fuckers. So I actually kept the russets around in
an indoor environment for like six months. It was fucking horrible because a lot of the lower end
products, like your, your natural, like a insecticidal soap and shit like that, they weren't
really doing anything to it. And, uh, if you don't kill them with that, they do become immune
to it. They burrow into your stems. Some of it won't even get touched by it, you know? So the
only thing I found at the end was heating up my room. Cause that was kind of keeping them out of
the, out of the stocks and the stems of the clones and then using that wettable sulfur and spraying
that down and you got to be consistent with it. But yes, it's not that hard. It's just a matter of,
uh, work ethic and consistency being on top for sure. Yeah. Oh, that's, that's farming a hundred
percent. Um, there's no replacement for the gardener shadow. I mean, that's the way it is.
The more work you put into it, the better your crop is. I had one guy that he had multiple tents
in his, in his warehouse and he had spider mites like crazy. And so his garage was like hoarded.
And I kept telling him you were never going to get rid of spider mites until you clean this garage
out. Cause you might spray your tent. They're in all of that right there behind you too. And he
had his dogs that would come through his grow. And I was like, until you keep your pets out of the
grow, you're like, they are bringing them in and out. They're not in this barn anymore. They're
on your property. They're on the trail that every trail your dog takes, they are on just waiting.
Um, but that's, I mean, that's the way farming is. Is it? Yes. I mean, I know a lot of growers
that let their animals into their grow and it gives me a heart attack every single time.
I mean, like you said, especially with dogs that are running around outside and aren't house dogs,
you know, and you're not regularly washing them or you just took them for a walk. They've got
shit. There's going to be shit. Even if it's just dust mites, you're going to have a problem.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's something that I struggle with too. I mean, I have,
I have animals. They're part of the family. Um, so I get it. Um, you know, and I, you know,
I've been a hippie outlaw. Like I, the idea of wearing like lab suit type stuff doesn't really
vibe with the idea of a garden. Um, but especially indoor, I mean, yeah, yeah. I mean, on the, on the
indoor, especially, uh, cleanliness is, is, is everything. Um, clean rooms are much, much,
much easier to maintain and you know, the cleaner you can keep it, the less problems you generally
will have. Is that part of your SOP going into your grow? Uh, most of the time. Yeah. I will.
And I try not to wear the same clothes. Um, I don't do the lab coat. Um, I probably should.
Um, yeah, I, I don't go that far. Um, but I do go in with clean clothes and, um, I never go from one
to the next. It's like, if I go, if I work in this garden, I don't wear those same clothes. I go take
those clothes off. I take a shower before I go into another garden. Just not only for the pest,
but also because I work with pollen that I don't want to take pollen where I don't want pollen to
be. Um, and it's so easy to do that. So it's, you know, it's all just part of part of what you just
have to do to do it, you know, really well. Yeah, absolutely. So what would be one of your
best tips for a beginner grower? Oh man. Um, well, I think when I was a new grower,
I think what I tended to do was over love the plant and over, overdo it. Like it's so easy to
over water. It's so easy to over love when you're, when you're first learning. Um, and so I'd say
that's probably, probably the biggest thing is to start learn like the biggest process about
growing, I'd say is learning to read plants, learning to understand what, what they want,
what they look like when they're not getting what they want and how to fix it. I mean, I think those
are, that's the underlying key for, for success. I would say the faster you can learn to read plants,
you know, the, the better, the better adapt you will because happy plants make happy flowers.
That's just the way it is. Stress plants, you're not going to get what you want out of a stress
plant. Exactly. Definitely a good tip right there. Over watering is probably the biggest problem with
most beginner new growers. Um, I, in overloving like though more water does not equal faster
growth. Nope. It's all about those dry down times and cons or consistent, uh, water. So great tip
on that. Thank you for everybody coming in from dragon's flame side and my followers. This was an
awesome interview, man. Um, did you still want to donate some seed packs for our giveaway? Yeah,
definitely. Awesome. So our Patreon members have that to look forward to some dragon's flame
genetic seeds going in. I would love to give those out. What we do is we typically give them
out during our monthly game show. So we're going to do a do or dab next month in October. Have you
heard a do or dab yet? I haven't. It's a game show that we play where two of my members go head to
head. They get to pick which packs they want out of whatever you donate. And then the rest that we,
we give to random Patreon members, but the two that are going head to head, they get to pick
which packs they want right off the bat. And they basically play truth or dare, but it's extremely
fucked up and they end up extremely fucked up by the end of the hour, but it's an awesome game.
And we would love to have you come in and be one of the coaches for one of our, uh, our contestants.
Yeah, that'd be cool. Yeah. I could throw some packs in and I also have a stack of
books. I could donate a signed copy of, um, it's by Larry Livermore. Um, oh my God,
I'm totally brain farting the goddamn name of the book. Um, but anyway, it's, um,
fuck that's going to bug me. Now it's going to drive me insane. Yeah. Now it's going to drive
me insane. Absolutely fucking insane. Spy Rock Memories. That's the book. Spy Rock Memories.
Um, so Larry Livermore was the, uh, guy who found Green Day, the drummer for Green Day.
And it's basically, uh, his story living on spy rock in Mendo, uh, during the prohibition era.
I it's, it's a book I love. I got a ton of them, um, from him. They're all autographed by him. Um,
so I mean, it's a, it's a cool thing. I'll throw one of those in too.
That's intense. That's awesome. We'll say, uh, say the winner of do or dab, whoever wins do or
dab can get their pack seeds and get a book from Larry Livermore. That's fucking bad ass, man. How
did you come across that big Green Day fan? Um, no, not really actually. Um, but I am, um, so
we did, uh, a season in Mendocino, um, on Pigeon Ridge in, uh, outside of Kobolow, which is
outlaw, uh, grow country, basically, um, murder mountain esque, but it's in Mendo, not humbled.
And so spy rock is the, if, if the Emerald Triangle is the epicenter of cannabis,
spy rock is what I would consider the epicenter of the Emerald Triangle. It was,
um, in the height of prohibition, you were invite only. Um, there was armed guards
blocking spy rock. You did not go there if you were not a grower and if you were not invited.
Um, so it's, you know, outlaw country basically that where this really, you know, where this
movement that, you know, we're all a part of now, you know, I would say was the heart of it.
Um, so, I mean, it's, it's something I've always, it's always fascinated me, that area. Um,
you know, especially, especially the year that I was there hearing the OG tales, um,
you know, people that had to hike a kayak and hike every, literally everything in, um, you know,
really far into, into the, into the wilderness to, to, to grow this plant. Um, and how spoiled
we all are now to have it in our houses. So no shit. It's gotten a lot easier. That's for sure.
Yeah, it has. Awesome, man. Well, thank you for the amazing interview. Thanks for
joining this. I will hit you up later with the details and we'll try to get you in on the day
of do or dab as a coach. That would be awesome. And I think you really enjoy the show.
Awesome. Will do. All right. Thank you everybody for tuning in. Thank you. Dragon's flame for
joining us and giving us so much great information on feminized seeds. Some of the lines that he's
working and what's to come out, check out dragon's flame genetics. If you haven't support our friend
here doing the good work, breeding stable genetics, I'll catch you all later until next time.
