Good evening, everybody, and welcome to another exciting episode of the Calix and Crew podcast.
I'm your host, as always, Doc Calix.
We got a very special episode for you today.
It's going to be really, really cool.
When I got my homie, OK Calix from OK Calix Genetics over here.
Huge mind in composting, but we'll get onto that in a later episode.
This episode, we're going to have OK Calix on.
He's going to be reviewing the Pele Poler, their brand new book on ash making.
He's going to be talking about some of his new genetics as well.
Before we get started, though, I want to give a huge shout out to Diamond Cut Company, some
of the best trimming scissors in the business.
If you guys want to check some out for yourself, go over to diamondcutcode.com or find them
on Instagram.
Use coupon code DOC minus 10% for a 10% discount on some of the best trimming scissors around.
Also, make sure you like, comment, subscribe.
It really, really helps us out no matter whether you're listening on YouTube.
If you're listening on Deezer, Stitcher, Spotify, SoundCloud, does not matter.
Please leave us a review.
It really helps out the show.
Go check out the Calix and Crew podcast discord.
The link is in my bio.
You can find it at calix underscore crew underscore podcast on IG, or you can find me at doc underscore
Calix on Instagram.
There's a link in both the bios that'll guide you anywhere you need to to every one of our
social media platforms, our Patreon, our Discord, and all the goodies.
Tons of extras over there, giveaways every single month, Q&As, games, seed giveaways,
ton of fun over there.
It's always popping, always popping.
Shout out to all my guys that are promoting me, that are helping me out over there and
supporting me.
Appreciate every single one of you.
Now before we get too long and drawn out, let's hop into this episode.
We are on the line with my good friend, OK Calix Genetics.
OK Calix, how are you doing today?
I'm doing good guys.
How are y'all?
Good, good.
It's good to hear from you.
I'm glad that we're finally getting this podcast in.
I've been meaning to have you on for a minute now.
Today we are going to be talking about hash making.
We're going to be talking about the Pelle Pellere Ice Cold H2O Trichome Isolation Buck,
as well as some of your genetics, which I'm really stoked to hear what you're doing.
So this hash, you know, a lot of people know you for your composting and I've seen you
do a lot of content when it comes to composting.
I feel like that's people wanting me to talk about K&F and I don't always want to talk
about K&F.
And I know that you have another love and that's hash, correct?
You make some fire hash.
We absolutely loved it.
And we're going to kind of get back into those genetics later on in this episode.
But first, I want to hear about what you took away from this book.
You're a guy that I look forward to hearing from when I need tips and advice on hash making.
What did you get from this that helped you out?
Well, the book was very good.
No doubt about it.
It's a collaborative piece.
A lot of different hash makers that a lot of you guys know, and everybody contributed
a small piece.
They gave a lot of information from their experience and from the art that they perform,
you know.
So it's really good.
Lots of gold nuggets to take away.
One thing, good Doc, you and I have the same washer.
We have the same washer?
I don't have a washer.
Or the same, we have the same press.
Sorry, that's right.
The same press.
Yeah, we do have the same press.
Yeah.
And I love that.
I love that.
That's a good press.
I got a washer.
And after I read this book, I'm like, I wish I didn't buy the washer, but it's the bottom
agitating washer.
The typical kind that you see everybody using, home growers using these little washing machines.
But the agitation on the bottom is talked about so negatively throughout this book.
And I'm just like, oh gosh.
So now I'm going to be like, I got to find some hand washing equipment.
But the reason I'm saying that is because he gave a nice little, somebody, I can't remember
who, but one of the writers gave a nice little nugget saying, hand wash, put all your bud
in your trim bag and give it a hand wash.
You know, do that for two, three minutes, whatever.
And then put the washed bud into the washer.
And that is just a good kind of give and take.
And I was kind of like, yeah, that's great.
Because really, I don't hand wash.
I just use my washing machine that I have.
And I really try to filter it and clean it and all that stuff as I'm going.
But I think I'm going to start trying to hand wash a little bit, probably the first
round, just hand wash real good.
And then we'll use my washer after that.
That's a good nugget.
See, and I'm on the opposite end of the spectrum.
I've always hand washed and I've never used one of the machines.
I was looking forward to it because I thought it would cut out some of the manual labor.
And now you're, you gave me some information earlier.
I'm like, God damn it.
Back to the hard work.
But the hard work usually pays off the best, right?
Exactly.
Throughout the book, they're always saying hand washing is the best.
So the biggest problem with this motor on the bottom of the machine, what is it?
So the problem with the bottom agitation is that, you know, the trichomes will sink to
the bottom.
And with hand washing, you have a little false bottom down there where all your trichome
can settle.
And you're not stirring it a lot, you know, as you're washing it.
It should be able to settle more in those bigger buckets.
The bottom agitation, all you're doing is cycling the bits and pieces back, you know,
into the water along with the trichome.
And they're just getting bashed down there, you know, just getting hammered, hammered,
hammered as you're spinning it.
And it just leads to a, you know, at least a little lesser quality product.
Now as a home grower, I'm not going to fuss and complain about the rods that I've made,
you know, I liked it.
But you know, we can clean it up a little bit by not using that bottom agitation on
my first wash.
Really trying to get a good load of trichome heads off by hand washing, then move to the
washer.
But that bottom agitation just constantly is bashing those trichomes because they sink
to the bottom.
That's the problem.
So this washer is forcing all those trichomes, that motion is kind of forcing it back up
into the material.
And not only that, it's kind of, it's beating it around.
That's right.
So that bottom, you know, if you fit some washing machines, like clothing washing machines,
if you look at the bottom, you know, it turns back and forth, back and forth.
And that's what my washing machine does also.
It just spins one way and then stops, spins the other way and then stops.
But yes, as it's spinning, it is, well, let me back up.
If you're not using a trim bag and you just throw all your flour into the washing machine,
which is what I do, it's really not good.
Especially just because you're getting all kinds of bits and pieces and particles and
all that good stuff.
Even though the bud does float in the water, you're still getting little pieces stirred
up with that bottom agitation.
And those little bits and pieces are hitting those trichomes and either sticking them together
or sticking to the trichome itself.
And then you have contamination.
So if someone can invent one of those washing machines with the turner, with that agitation
on the top, you might make some money.
There's a million dollar idea right there and you just gave it to him.
That's right.
Because he even says in the book, there's nothing on the market.
So okay, that's where you start branding this stuff.
Come on, you're handy.
I hear you.
I got too many kids.
Yeah, no, I hear you.
All right.
So we've got this washer problem.
You're saying manual is a way better way to do it.
Let's get into the bags.
I've seen people not using a work bag at all.
And I believe you say use the work bag, right?
And not only that, you also have your collection bags.
And I've seen quite a few people remove certain bags that they didn't want.
Is there any benefits to this?
What do you do?
What I have done before, and like I said, after I read this book and I went to a 918
OG hash class a couple months ago, and I mean, it was just great information.
So I haven't washed since that class and this book.
So when I say I used to do it this way, it's because I plan on doing it a new way.
But I did not use a trim bag or anything.
I just put the bud in the water, let it rehydrate and then wash it that way.
I didn't use the trim bag.
And the reason I didn't use a trim bag is because I did, first couple of washers, I
used a trim bag.
You put that big, I think it's 220.
You put all your bud in it and then you stick that whole bag into the washer and it just
washes in the bag.
And so all your weed is kept in that bag.
However, it gets clogged quickly.
It gets clogged with just the resin and the trichome hitting that thing.
And when I did a wash without it, I had a much bigger return.
And I mean, so much greater return that I'm like, I'm never using that bag again.
And I haven't since.
But hand washing with that bag to get a real superior product, that's how you have to do
it.
And then I would take everything out of that bag and put it in my washer and do it the
way I used to.
But if you want higher quality, you need to use your trim bag.
Okay.
So it's not so much that it's not letting good trichome heads through, but it's also
taking out a lot of contaminants.
Yeah, it does definitely do that.
It definitely holds a lot of contaminants.
But it clogs and it holds trichome in too.
So you know, you got to play with your equipment, see what you want.
Yeah.
What you want to do.
And now you asked about the collection bags, you know, the Micron bags.
In the book, he suggests that you use a full eight bag set.
And that would be the 220 bag.
And then the 190, the 160, the 120, the 90, the 73, the 45 and the 25.
And if you're going to begin to wash, if you have the money, you might not.
But if you can get the whole eight bag set, you will start to learn which Micron bags
catch the most and you know, which is your good quality and which is your low quality.
Now my advice is if you don't have the money to buy all eight bags because they're not
cheap, you know, and they do break and you need to get new ones sometimes.
But what you want to do, here's what I have.
I have the, well, I'll start with the lower, the lower number because that's the one you
stick in the container first.
That's like, if you think of a five gallon bucket, I'm going to put one of my Micron
bags in first and it's going to be that 25 Micron.
Inside of my 25 Micron, I'm going to stick my 73 Micron.
And then I'm going to stick inside 73, my 120 and then my 160 and the 220 is the last
one.
The highest quality bags are going to be your, your 120, your 90 and your 73.
That's going to be your best, your best catch of head.
They're going to fit right there and you're going to be able to wash some debris through
and all that good stuff.
So 120, 90 and 73, you want those bags for sure.
You know, if you can't afford any other ones, definitely get those three because that's
what catches your good stuff.
And then of course the 45 and the 25 become lower quality as you go down.
It just starts to catch a lot of the bits and pieces.
Now I, I will melt that down and still use it myself for medicine, the 25 and the 45.
It's still, it's still going to work.
It just has more contamination in it and it will, it will be almost a green, you know,
greenish color sometimes.
That's your contamination.
You do not want to use the 220.
That's, you're going to throw that out, throw that in your compost.
And the 190 is rough also.
What is typically in those bags?
Is it the stalks?
Is it leaf matter, plant matter?
Okay.
So whenever you're washing, so see like when I wash my bud in my washing machine, imagine
if you will, the washing machine and I have all that bud in there and it's been spinning
and spinning and I'm ready to drain it.
And so I'll drain it down through all of those bags.
And what you're catching is what has been washed off the plant.
And if you got a bunch of dirt, you're going to get all the dirt too, you know, and pesticide,
anything like that, you're getting it.
But hopefully you don't have that and you have a lot of resin, a lot of trichome head
and you know, you'll have some of the stalks.
We're talking, you know, microscopic here.
You gotta, you know, need a jeweler's eye or something, but the stalk of the trichome
head will be in those bags.
But what you want is that head, that little circle around pretty thing that everybody
looks at.
You're trying to catch just those, you know.
So you don't have a lot of plant material.
You're not gonna have leaves or anything.
You're just going to have little bits of broken leaves and you know, what's referred to as
contamination because you don't want leaves.
You just want that head.
Right.
One thing that I wanted to ask you about is full spec.
Do you need to match that description of full spec?
Which one of these bags are we taking from and what needs to be included in the final
product?
All right.
I will, let's see.
Let me read you from the book on page 17 under the title collection bag.
Another method of collection would be to mix all of the various bags together to make what
is known as full spec.
If you're selecting to go the full spec route, it would be wise to remove all the bags and
use only your high quality bags.
Your 120, your 90, your 73, maybe even your 45 and 25.
But when you mix all of your bags, all of the, you know, the products that you've collected
in your bags, a lot of people want to keep the 73 by itself because they feel that's
the best quality and they won't mix it with the 90 or the 120 micron bag.
They keep it all separate.
But what the book is saying, if you want to do a full spec, you're going to mix your
120, your 90, your 73, your 45, 25.
You can mix it all together if you want, or you can just choose three bags to mix together
and you get this, what's called full spec.
Okay.
So either way.
Nice.
I was hoping it wasn't going to include that contamination bag that you were talking about
with all the leaf matter and everything.
The 220?
Nah, no, no, no, no.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Let's make sure that everybody understands that.
Yeah.
I mean, I don't know what contamination is.
Like the 220, the 190, the 160, those are going to be rough.
Maybe 160.
I keep it.
I've kept it many times.
Have you ever smoked it?
Yes.
Yes.
There's people going to you, but they've done it too.
They've done it too.
Hey man, I'm a, I'm a home medicator, dude.
You got to try your stuff.
You got to try it.
Yeah.
I've thrown away lots of Rosin guys, lots of Rosin.
It just like, I'm not smoking that.
I messed that up bad.
Really?
Yeah.
I haven't made enough to say that.
Actually I just messed up a batch of one of my genetics, my TKLV.
I'm just learning how to jar tech it because I learned it at 918 OG's class.
He taught us how to, you know, use heat and all this stuff.
Cause I've never done it.
I've only cold cured.
But my first jar tech, I definitely cooked it way too long and it was so dark.
It was fine though.
I messed it up.
I have done that.
I have done that.
And I have, I have had success recently.
Oh.
But the big, the biggest thing is patience.
And I definitely screwed up my first one.
It turned into this decarbed black, almost clear crap.
Yeah.
It is good and dark.
That's how we learn though.
That's correct.
You get to mess up, man.
You need to mess up.
So we've learned about this manual washing versus the machine washing and which one's
better.
So you've learned about the collection bags and the use of the work bag.
What's the next step after this?
You've grabbed all your hash and everything.
How are you going to dry it out?
This is the tough one.
This is the step that if you're a home grower and you're wanting to get into get your own
hash making and really trying to get quality, you're going to have to figure out ways to
try this stuff.
And it's nice when you know guys grows like I do who have freezers and all that stuff.
And I can take it up there when I want it frozen.
I don't always want it frozen, freeze dried.
Sometimes I just like it room dried.
I think that sometimes it has a better taste.
Sometimes when it's freeze dried, it's hard to work with it a little bit.
For me it is.
I need more experience of course, but for me it's a little harder to work with when
it's frozen.
When it's been dried like on cardboard in front of a fan in my shed, it tastes good.
Here's how I do it.
Whenever I've washed and I'm scraping all of that gooey goodness out of those Micron
bags, what I do as a home grower, and don't anybody freak out, but this is how it has
to be done sometimes.
I will get parchment paper and I'll spread it out as thin as I possibly can on parchment
paper.
And even you might, you can even add a little bit of water and to even get it thinner.
And you don't think in that counterproductive because you're trying to get it dried out.
But actually if you can get the chunk thinner.
If you're going to have blobby chunks and you need to get it nice and flat and the thinner
you can get it, you can spread it out over more surface area.
You can get it to dry out faster.
So a little water actually helps get it spread out.
You put it like a parchment sheet or parchment paper inside a cookie sheet is a good way
to do it.
Put all your, put your hash or put all of your bubble hash that you've got, add a little
water, make sure it gets nice and thin and then put a fan on it.
It dries out fast.
Quit talking about it.
How long are we talking about on a dry time?
It's not like flour.
The slower you go, the better it's going to be.
It just needs to dry out.
I mean, from my experience, somebody else smarter than me might tell you something different,
but I just need to get it dry.
You definitely don't want water at all.
You're going to ruin it.
You start to learn that you had water in your hash and it's like, oh, dang it.
You know, a little burning, nasty tasting.
But anyway, put it on that parchment paper inside a cookie, cooking sheet.
Add a little water, thin it out real well, spread it all over, get a lot of surface area
covered, add a fan on it.
And, you know, and it needs to not be in a hot, hot shed.
It needs to be, if you can keep it, you know, 60, 70, that'd be nice.
Let it dry out.
And then again, my storage has changed big time.
Are you storing it in about the same conditions?
I never store it.
Once it's dried, I immediately pressed it just because I didn't have ability to really
store it real well.
But after reading this book, actually, oh, frozen storage, page 30 in the fabulous book
called Ice Cold H2O Trichome Isolations by Pele Peler, page 30.
Here's some tips, guys.
I'm telling you, this is just good stuff.
Terpenes are easily lost.
I'm reading from the book here.
Terpenes are easily lost through temperature fluctuation.
The key is to always keep the bubble hash, which is what we're scraping out of the
bags, everybody.
It's what we're talking about, bubble hash.
Always keep the bubble hash in the freezer in a parchment-lined mason jar.
Never compress bubble hash at all.
Treat the hash very gently.
Don't pack your hash down in that jar.
I used to do that.
I used to not as much as I could, but I mean, I packed it in because I didn't have enough
jars, maybe.
But now it's like, oh, yeah, keep this stuff fluffy.
Keep it.
Put that parchment paper inside that mason jar, you know, and get that top on it.
Keep it cold.
Take care of it like it's a dang newborn baby because you're keeping all those terps
in there.
And of course, that's the ultimate thing.
When we're dealing with hash, when we're dealing with rosin, we're wanting, we know
the high is going to be there.
It's going to be there, you know.
But we want that flavor pop.
We want it to just be like, you know, smack your lip, trying to run it through your nose
again, taste it.
Yeah.
So we want to keep this stuff nice and cold.
Keep it, you know, low temps.
So go ahead.
OK.
What size portions would you put in what size jar?
I use, what is it like half quart mason jars, the small ones, maybe no half pint jar.
I think it's what it is.
OK.
But really, you don't want a lot of air.
So I would go ahead and just kind of fill it up to the top.
Close it up.
You know, you don't want just a whole lot of air in there.
The problem is you don't always have a lot of a lot of hash.
If you can only fill your jar halfway up, cover it with parchment paper before you fill
it, you know, cover it, put parchment paper down on the top of it a little bit and then
fill your jar.
I mean, it's the best you can do.
Do you understand what I'm saying?
Yeah.
No, I'm taking in a lot of this, man, because like I said, lately I've been growing some
more hash oriented cultivars.
So even though I'm a heavy flower guy, I love bubble hash.
I just hated doing the manual mixing of all of it, you know.
So I was really looking.
I was looking forward to that machine.
But if the quality is the best on the manual, I'll go back to it.
It's a lot of work.
I'm not throwing my machine away.
So you heard me say that.
I'm still keeping it.
Right.
It's still beneficial, especially for people like me that don't want to bend their back
over stirring, you know, for what, three minutes in segments.
So let's go over some terms that you were talking about earlier when we were talking
about you coming on the podcast and talking about hash.
There was a few things that you said that I kind of wanted you to elaborate on.
What is this greasing versus pre greasing?
Oh, yeah.
This is new to me.
So let me start off with that.
But it's just.
Oh, this is new to you.
OK.
Yeah.
But the words, the labeling of the action, you know what I'm saying?
Like I kind of did it, but I didn't know, oh, we're going to grease or pre grease,
you know, stuff like that.
So it's fun to know those words for me.
I like it because it just it cleans it up, you know, cleans conversation up quickly.
Let me see.
Page 27.
Right.
So it's where the terms pre greasing and greasing and stamping is also there.
But pre greasing.
And that's G.R.E.A.S.I.N.G.
Like grease.
Because you're going to get greasy, you know, when you're when you're smashing these heads.
Yeah, it's going to get greasy.
You want some grease.
Pre greasing is when.
Let's see.
Let me see if I can actually read it.
As mentioned, let's see.
Another technique is to pre grease the hash and form hash pucks using a pre press mold.
So you guys know I'm talking about a lot of you have those press molds, circles or squares.
You put your hash in there and you're just kind of compacting it down, trying to get
it even.
You don't want holes in your hash, you know, in that little pocket.
You want it nice and solid.
You want it nice and flat on the top and bottom because you want surface area.
You want it to be able to spread out nice and evenly.
You know what I'm saying?
When you pre grease your bubble hash, you are just putting it into a mold form, not
in a bag.
And that's how I'm understanding pre greasing.
I think a lot of people pre grease.
And then the other one called greasing is how I'm understanding it.
It's when you put your bubble hash in the bag itself and then you give it that good
nice smashing and you try to even it out throughout the bag, get the corners filled up and all
that stuff.
That's called greasing your bag.
So those are two fun terms.
I had no idea, but those are terms I'm assuming good hash makers use because they talk about
it.
They use that.
They use that in this book.
I'm not a good hash maker.
I'm sitting here going, you do that.
You spread it over the bottom of the bag.
Yes.
So the other.
I was like, oh, skip it up with the spoon.
When you got your bubble hash in your in your bags and you're going to put it in your press
and smash it, you don't want one part thicker than the other part.
And you don't want one corner skinnier than the middle.
You know what I'm saying?
You want it spread out.
You want a nice, even press.
There's a style called bottle tech style.
And it's where you take your rosin bag.
Like when I press rosin or sorry, when I press bubble hash into rosin, I use two 25 micron
bags.
I double bag it.
Right.
Twenty five microns are very, very small.
So I really.
You have five kids.
You do not double bag it.
No, I do not ever.
I had to.
You let me into it, man.
You let me.
Your wife is over there shaking her head.
No, I know she will be when she is the podcast.
Exactly.
Oh, man.
But yet, if you don't double bag, you blow out everybody.
And that's how you get five kids.
You did that.
Of course I did.
This my show.
Oh, God.
So I'm back to double bagging it.
Twenty five.
Twenty five.
I'm glad I prompted you.
I loaded my first bag full of bubble.
So you're double bagging it.
You're double bagging it.
I've spread it out real good.
When I've got it in there, you know, well, actually, hold on.
We were talking about bottle tech.
That's what we were talking about.
I was going to somewhere else real quick.
So bottle taking your your rosin bag.
Here's the idea.
And you got to use your imagination with me.
You're holding your small little 25 microns bag and the opening is towards the top.
Right.
The bottom.
The bottom of the bag is the rosin bag.
And the bottom of the bag is the bubble bag.
And the bottom of the bag is the bubble bag.
And the bottom of the bag is the rosin bag.
And the bottom of the bag is the bubble bag.
25 unit micron bag and the opening is towards the top.
Right.
The bottom corners.
What you do is you would take a pen or a dab tool and you invert the corner.
So the corner isn't poking out, but it's now poking up and into the bag.
You know what I'm saying?
And you do that on both bottom corners.
And OK.
Okay, so the idea is that that is stopping
the little bitty corner from not having anything in it.
Okay, I knew that, but why do you do that?
It'll catch your rosin.
Like if you just left the bag un-bottle-tec'd, if you will,
you've got, and you fill it up with rosin or flour,
you're gonna have the edges, the corners, not full.
And those little things are like pockets
to catch all your pops.
Gotcha.
You know what I'm saying?
It won't catch all of it, but it will catch it.
Yeah, yeah.
So when you put the corner, when you invert the corner,
you have bubble hash consuming that inverted corner.
Right, they're pushing past then instead of filling it up.
That makes a lot of sense.
And there's no hole there.
That's the idea.
It is.
Stamping, I think, let's see.
I'm gonna read from the book again on page 27.
Gotcha, that's actually pretty damn smart.
So what's this stamping that you were talking about?
What does the book say?
The book says pre-pressing your filter bags once packed
is not a bad idea either.
This is stamping.
You fill your bags and then, like if you have
a big square mold or a long rectangle mold
that fits your bag or whatever form you're using,
a circle even, pack your bags and then put them
back in the mold, stamp it real good,
get it all packed in and then you're ready
to put it in your press.
That's stamping your bag.
And I can tell you right now, Philly Pillar,
if you're listening and I make any mistakes,
I apologize, please correct me.
But that's how I'm a standing pug.
You betcha.
We mess up.
This is a show where we smoke a lot of cannabis,
so mistakes are bound to happen.
So when you're doing the stamping,
there's no heat on the plates at all.
Yeah, that's correct.
You're not doing anything with your plate.
You're heating plates.
You're only messing with a cold,
probably aluminum or steel little piece.
Okay, so a pre-pressed mold like for flour
would be the same thing.
Gotcha.
That's it, yeah.
We could do the same thing, exactly.
Okay, so I have one more question for you
really quick before we go to break.
Fresh frozen, what is the qualifying term
for fresh frozen?
We were talking about this in our Discord the other day.
The guys were asking me,
does this mean that it's taken down right away,
that it's frozen right there?
Does fresh frozen, or like a freeze dryer,
does that count as fresh frozen?
My answer at the time was I had always heard
even if you had taken the plant down,
let it do a slow dry before curing
and using it, that still qualifies as fresh frozen.
Okay, this was addressed at 918 OG's Homemakers Hash Class.
So yeah, fresh frozen is when you cut the plant,
well, you cut all your families off
or anything that isn't consumed with Trichome.
And okay, so see, my brain locking up just shows you,
I learned so dang much.
I don't know where to go sometimes now.
But 918, he said he likes to,
what's called, what in the books, I think,
is kind of called, well, let's see.
Well, no, it's not.
He likes to sometimes, depending on the strain, of course,
it's all strain dependent,
but sometimes he likes some strain to dry
for maybe two or three days.
Then he puts it into the freezer and treats it the same.
And he says, often you get better taste,
you get more return for sure.
He says you always get more return, almost always.
He said you'll get a bigger return
whenever you cut the plant,
let it dry for two to three days,
then stick it in the freezer,
and then treat it like fresh frozen.
You get a better return with the fresh frozen.
Why is that?
Is it thials and cannabinoids evaporating off?
But you're getting, I think you're getting,
here's what I'm learning a little bit.
And based on page seven,
which deals with all these Trichome heads
and the epidermal cells and the hypodermal cells,
or the Trichome stalks,
it actually, there's more water getting out of the plant.
And so that stalk gets a little more brittle.
And so it breaks off easier
and you get a bigger release on your first wash.
And you just get a good amount off of it.
So a little bit of drying kind of dehydrates it
and helps to make things brittle.
But if you do it too much,
it makes your leaves brittle too.
And so you can't do it too much.
Can't dry out too much.
Gotcha.
I find that really interesting
that you didn't like the taste of the fresh frozen hash
next to your home dried.
Because I feel the same way about flour.
Exactly, I'd rather have a slow dried flour next to.
Yeah, this isn't any kind of braggart thing.
And our processors in Oklahoma are fantastic guys.
I can promise you that.
The rec market here is really known for fresh frozen.
It's take it down, get it in packages
and get it on the market as soon as possible.
I just don't, I see a big degradation
in flavor and quality overall.
The way I like to do it, I like to press my flour.
I love pressed flour rosin.
Because to me, it has the most flavor
and it has a more body high,
a more of a head high, body high,
you know, just a thicker high maybe is a good word for it.
I like flour pressed and I like that flour rosin.
But of course I love bubble hash rosin
because it does have good taste
but the high is just really good.
You know, really quick, good high.
You can tell you're like, ooh, that's good stuff.
But I love the taste of flour rosin.
That's just me, that's me.
The anything, you know, the things that you tasted from me
were all flour rosin.
Just pressed flours, you know, or the bubble.
Well, I think some of it was bubble hash
but a lot of my stuff, that is just flour rosin.
That's what I do, I love it.
So it's tasty.
I agree with you.
I mean, I haven't had too much.
Whenever we have bubble hash,
we typically smoke it.
And that's why I wanna get a washer or something like that
so I can try pressing the bubble hash.
So most of what I've done so far
has just been flour pressing
but I'm really, really enjoying it.
And I agree with you, the flavor is there.
Good.
And every single one of those was delicious too,
by the way.
You took some of those genetics
from those concentrates that you gave us
and you actually started working them
into your own lines, correct?
That is correct.
I took that blueberry muffin from the Humboldt C. Company
that I sent to you.
That was the best flour rosin I ever had in my life.
And it was just to,
I don't know, just to press the flour.
I mean, the flour smells so good anyway.
Anybody who's grown that blueberry muffin
knows what we're saying.
It smells so good and the taste lingers in your nose.
Oh, it was the best.
So yes, I took that blueberry muffin.
That was intense, that was good stuff.
And the one plant that I'm really going to focus on,
because you can't do all,
I do all those crosses and I give away lots of seeds,
but you can't really breed a bunch of strains.
It's so much work.
And me being a home grower,
I can't have a whole bunch of plants going.
So my focus is what's called the blueberry squealer.
And that is the blueberry muffin.
And it has been crossed with blueberry train mac
from Black Label Organic.
And that is Brandon Russ.
He's just a fantastic grower, full of knowledge
and a super duper helpful.
Yeah, great genetics, just fantastic.
I'm sure a lot of you guys know him.
So I crossed those two together
and I got blueberry squealer.
I have nine, I think it's nine blueberry squealers
going right now.
And we're trying to get those going.
And again-
Great genetics.
You know, a pheno hunt is like,
you know, the great, those awesome guys
who've got the big buildings, you know,
we're gonna do-
Awesome.
100 plants, so we're gonna pheno hunt, you know.
I'm pheno hunting eight or nine.
And that's how I can do it.
And that's how a lot of home growers can do it too,
if you just get started.
But I've got my blueberry squealers
and I'm gonna try to see the pretty ladies
and find that one good male.
If I get one, they haven't been sexed yet.
I don't know what they are,
but I wanna get them to F2s, get them into F3s,
start back crossing and all that good stuff.
Cause that taste, I've had the blueberry train mac
and it's just delicious.
The blueberry muffin is delicious.
So they got married and they had a baby.
And I think this baby is gonna be delicious too.
Blueberry squealer.
Awesome.
We're gonna take a quick break.
When we get back,
I wanna hear more about that blueberry squealer.
We're also gonna talk more about your genetics,
the lady breath lines that you're working with.
Yep.
All right.
We will be right back with the Calyx and Crew podcast
with OK Calyx.
G'day guys,
Gregory and Daddy here with you.
I just wanna let you know quickly
about Stoner Days Apparel.
They've been a long time affiliate of Docs on the show
and they're extending that to Calyx Crew podcast listeners
by offering 20% off all regular price goods at checkout
when using the code Calyx.
That is C-A-L-Y-X for 20% off at checkout.
Now, if you haven't seen Stoner Days before,
go check out their website, shop.stonerdays.com.
They've got men and women's clothing.
They've got tees, they've got tanks,
they've got some hoodies.
You want hats?
They've got it.
They've got beanies.
You want socks?
They've got them too.
The only thing I haven't seen yet is jocks
cause Gregory and Daddy needs a new thong for summer
and I reckon Stoner Days is gonna be the one
to hit it out of the park.
So if you're on their website, shop.stonerdays.com,
throw code Calyx in at checkout for 20% off,
get yourself a few dab mats and coffee mugs.
You never know when you need an emergency gift
for somebody that rocks up,
that loves cannabis as much as you.
That's the way to go.
Get onto it.
Now back to the boys, docking OK Calyx
and see how they're doing.
All right, we are back with OK Calyx of OK Calyx genetics.
We talked about hash.
Now I wanna talk about the hash that you're making,
the plants that made those hash.
These are your own genetics
that you're working with right now.
You were talking about the blueberry muffin,
the blueberry train mat.
I wanna hear a little bit more about that one
and some of the other stuff
that you're working with, the lady breath and whatnot.
What made you wanna work with them?
Well, let's see.
So I gotta, let me pull up my phone here.
I got a note on here so I don't have to remember it.
You know what I'm saying?
The lineage of lady breath,
that's why the lineage of the TK plants
pulled those two things up.
So I crossed the blueberry muffin,
we were talking about the blueberry muffin
from the Humboldt seed company
and blueberry train mat
from Black Label Organics here in Oklahoma.
Cross those up and we've got blueberry squealers going.
I don't know the sex of it yet,
but I got, I think it was eight or I have going.
They're all about two, three inches tall,
but we're doing a little phenome hunt with those
and trying to get them to F2s
and really see what we can get going.
We're in the early stages of it, but that's where we are.
I've sent out a lot of seeds.
You're referring to all the couple of plants that I've done.
When I cross, when I find a male and I'm like,
okay, this male is awesome.
I'm gonna cross him with everything.
You know everything I'm growing.
I'm just gonna cross with every strain I'm growing.
That's my approach, because that's how I like to do it.
I don't always do that, but whenever I find,
I found a killer queen male that was so pretty and so big
and it was just aggressive.
I had a few people come up to my house
and were actually just looking at it.
I'm like, this is the best male I've ever grown.
Anyway, that killer queen male was a plant,
it was a male that I used to pollinate a herd of strains.
And that has been a couple of years back,
but I sent a lot of those out.
And on my genetics page, at OKCalixGenetics,
at OKCalixGenetics, you'll see pictures
of some of those older crosses
that are kind of starting to come back now.
That's what's cool.
I sent out feeds a year ago,
and now you start to see some pictures of the results
and it's fun.
And that's one of the problems breeding.
You have to wait so long.
Yeah.
Takes a lot of time.
But that killer queen was a beautiful male,
and I just crossed a lot of things up.
And I've sent out a lot of things,
a lot of strains to people, and it's been fun.
It's been rewarding also,
because I've gotten to know so many people on Instagram.
I'm talking Oklahoma folks where I've met them.
I've gone to their house, or we've met someplace,
and we smoke just to talk and meet each other,
because we have so much, you know,
this one thing in common, we love cannabis.
And we can just talk and talk and talk.
But it's been fun for me to send all these strains out
and see some fun things come back.
Yeah, you're doing those drops all the time.
Yeah, man, those drops.
People love those drops.
That's so fun, dude.
I wish I could do that around here.
There's not enough growers.
I have to, most of my buddies that are in Washington
are over on the West Coast.
So it's like, fuck, am I gonna make a three-hour run
and then drive around to places I don't know?
Hope you guys get it, come on.
So no, I applaud the shit out of you for doing that.
It's very good.
Whenever you pollinate things,
and like when I pollinate, I pollinate.
I pollinate every plant I've got.
But you're gonna end up with thousands of seeds
that you will never use.
You know what I'm saying?
Why not be a blessing to somebody
and just send them some seeds?
Heck, man, they might find a unicorn
that they think is just fantastic.
That's what's so cool about our community,
although kind of off-public.
We can make our own medicine
and send it through seed to people
and they can grow it themselves.
I find that fascinating because I love nature.
Do you know what I'm saying?
It's just fascinating that we can do that.
I love it.
That's the most amazing way I've ever heard that put.
One plant that I really liked,
and I took it to F2s right now,
is what I call TKLB.
And that's triangle cush crossed with lady breath.
But triangle cush has a really long name.
And it's called, the actual name that Russ Brannon gave to it
or sorry, Brandon Russ gave to it is,
sorry, triangle cush crossed with,
triangle cush crossed with Northern Lights 5 Haze
crossed with Lime 1 BX,
which is also known as, what is it?
Lime 1 Grape Soda, I think it is.
Let me see what it was.
Lime 1 Grape Soda Skunks.
It's a crazy long name.
And it's too much to even try to comprehend
while we're just talking.
We can't see it in front of us very well.
But it's a triangle cush, right?
It's got that lime grape cross in there.
It has a little hint of lime to it.
It's got that deep cush.
So this TKLB, you were talking about the cross on that one.
So it's not a TK, it's a TK hybrid.
It's something else has been crossed with a TK?
Yeah, it's a triangle.
Yeah, well, it's a, yeah.
He drew out the, the lineage is the name, basically,
if you know what I'm saying.
Triangle cush, cross a triangle cush,
Northern Lights 5 Hayes, crossed with Lime 1 BX.
Okay.
That's the plant, that's the lineage, and that's the name.
And then you cross that with the Lady Breath.
So I crossed that, yeah, that was a female.
That's from Black Label, that TK is from Black Label Organics
here in Oklahoma.
I took, and then I took a Lady Breath,
and I got this Lady Breath from a friend
at El Zancorino here in town that I've met through Instagram.
He had this Lady Breath, it's kind of a smaller plant,
but it was the male, the pollen sacs were purple and red,
and it was just real enticing to the eye, to me.
It wasn't a big plant at all, but it was so pretty.
The male, I hadn't seen a male, like, have a lot of color.
You know, have you seen males with lots of colors?
Because you deal with plants way more than me, I think, Doug.
Yeah, I've found quite a few colorful males,
but to be attractive to the eye like that,
it's not very often, no.
I think I had one in the Sinai recently
that was very, very black by Late Bloom,
and then the other one was the blueberry grapefruit
by Relic Seeds, and that was the Goose Bay Blueberry
crossed into the grapefruit inbred line, I believe.
Don't quote me on that, but I'm pretty sure
that was close to what it was.
But that thing was awesome, and the male on that one
threw out these deep purple stems,
and then the actual petals of the flower
were more of like a lavender red purple.
It was beautiful.
It was beautiful.
Beautiful.
Yeah, they're not, I mean, you're gonna get a lot of green
and yellow ones just like the females, you know?
Yes, the male, the Lady Breath male had real pretty color.
Okay, Lady Breath is from at Family Tree Seed.
He seems to be a really nice guy.
If you go look at his page, he is a real organic kid,
just seems to be cool.
I think he's got a YouTube page also.
Anyway, the Lady Breath males was so pretty.
I liked the color of it.
Crossed it with a TK that I had tried and I'd liked,
and the Lady Breath, what appealed to me strain-wise
with Lady Breath is the lineage.
The Lady Breath lineage, the male was an orchard lady.
I'll say it again, the male was an orchard lady,
and orchard lady is Pam One crossed with Citrus Farmer.
Pam One is just gorgeous.
And then that plant was used to cross a Mindo Breath,
which is OG Kush Breath and Mindo Montage, I believe.
That cross made Lady Breath.
So that lineage was like, man, that just sounds awesome.
Yes, I want this male plant.
So I totally got through after I looked at it.
So the cross is called TKLB, or the hybrid there,
those who plants is called, or the cross is called TKLB.
I have it in F2s right now.
I'm getting pictures back from sending the F1s out.
And at Tim Wetzel, I believe, he has grown one of them,
and it is just colorful as can be.
And that was what I was wanting.
It's so pretty.
That's awesome.
So that male really projected that, huh?
Yes, and that's, you know, it did.
The one he got, it was really cool.
So that was, I know that's kind of hopeful.
That's cool for me trying these things and like,
yeah, I wanted that color.
So, and I've got other TKs coming back also,
plants that haven't fully flowered yet, you know,
but we'll see some more pictures of it
and we'll see what's coming.
So that was fun for me.
Now, this TKLB, in F1s, I found,
I got a male, you know, that I like,
just a good looking male.
Had nice, big, fat fan leaves, you know,
just good looking stalk.
Well, it wasn't a whole lot of color or anything like that.
It was just the girth of the plant I liked.
But I took that TKLB F1 male and I did my thing.
I pollinated everything I had outside.
So that included a nag champa from Turp Fiend,
which is just wonderful hash broccoli.
Heard a lot of people talking about that one.
Oh my goodness.
So anyway, I've got, oh, my earpiece about to go down,
I think.
Nag breath, that's what that is.
TKL, nag champa, nag champa crop, TKLB.
You got nag breath.
I have blueberry breath, which is blueberry muffin
crossed with TKLB.
I wanna try that one.
Yes, sir.
It's coming.
I've got those growing right now.
F1s coming up.
I got a couple growing.
And I actually have a lot of people growing those.
I'll say one thing about that plant.
Here's how I messed up.
Here's something I learned and became better
after that plant.
And this is what people, this is why we talk,
make other people better.
What I did was I took about a 25 gallon pot
and I got two blueberry muffin females going in that pot.
And then I found the blueberry train mack male that I wanted
and I put it in that same pot.
And they weren't all real big,
but it was just something I was dealing with.
It's something I was messing with.
And just having fun.
And so they all got about, I don't know,
two feet tall in this big pot.
But what I learned was this.
I rushed it.
I didn't let those plants veg.
I didn't let my females veg long enough.
I let them go.
I let them get kind of big.
And I was like, man, I wanna flower them
because I wanna get these seeds going and all this.
And so I intentionally rushed it,
but I didn't realize that there's a detriment to it
by not letting your females veg out
and kind of mature a little bit, in veg even.
And then let them flower for a week or two
before you hit them with the pollen.
Mine did a veg real long
and they got hit with pollen on day one.
They put out a pistol
because that male already had pollen just flying from it.
And so that small kind of,
or that, I guess, maybe not totally mature veg plant
and then real early pollination,
breeding the books that I've been reading now,
those are two things that I saw in books
that they'll say, yeah, this might cause you a problem.
You gotta let these plants mature a little bit more
in veg and in flower before anything happens
if you're gonna breed.
So don't rush it.
You gotta let them grow a little bit.
Let them get into flower.
Let more than one pistol show, you know what I'm saying?
Let a good three-week flower get on it
before you put pollen on it.
So that's something I would-
I would agree with that, yes.
That's the best way for it to be.
You don't need to know everything.
But it's just like growing.
You do not know unless you do it.
Somebody can tell you this way, this way, this way all day.
But until you try it in your own environment,
you will not know for sure.
Exactly.
That's right.
And it goes the same with breeders and stuff.
Like, I don't know every breeder,
but I do know the ones that I'm working their stuff with
that I really want to know more
the more I work with their stuff, you know?
It's like, and those are the only breeders I know.
But there's so many more out there.
So I don't act, you know, and you don't either.
We don't act like we know everything.
And that's a good way to be in this world
because there's too much.
You need to specialize a little bit.
You know what I'm saying?
You need to shrink your focus down some
and not try to think you can do everything
because you can't.
Focus on a few things and be great at them.
That's what you want to do.
You never stop learning.
And then get other people's great stuff.
Yes, never stop learning.
Get great at what you do.
So you crossed it with a blueberry muffin.
That's why I'm really, really interested
in that blueberry bed.
That sounds amazing.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
I took the TK, took the TK,
LB, crossed it with the blueberry muffin.
And that's called blueberry breath, of course,
because the lady breath.
And because I can't think of any original names very well.
I never know.
But there's lots of those growing right now.
And I hope we get a blueberry cushy thing happening.
You know what I'm saying?
That's what I was hoping for.
Daffy blueberry.
That'd be cool.
You crossed it with the neg champ.
That sounds really good
because I've been wanting to grow some of Terp Fiend's gear.
Yeah.
What did you cross it to anything else?
Yes, I did.
I crossed it, too, and I still have yet to hear
how this name is pronounced, so let me spell it.
L-I-M-E-C-A-I.
C-A-I. Limeci?
Limeci. Limeci?
Let's agree that it's Limeci.
It sounds like lime and aci.
Limeci.
Yes, you are right, because it's
it's a side gelato crossed with key limeade.
Boom. Limeci.
That's what this is.
And that's from
At Umali Seed Co.
That's who did the lime chi.
I've never heard that name.
Yeah. OK.
And Tim, at Tim Wetzel grew one of these lime chi's out.
And you got to go look at it.
It's freaking frosty and just beautiful looking.
It's OKCowich Genetics.
I posted it.
But I crossed lime chi with TKLB and that lime breath, of course.
OK, so pictures have come back on that one.
And it's a nice one.
Lime breath.
That does sound good.
Didn't you do a G13 cross?
I did. I did a G13.
I crossed a G13 genius from Brothers Grimm
with lady with TKLB.
Oh, you gave us that G13.
That was excellent, dude.
Oh, yeah, that G13 flyer was so good.
That was good. Yeah, I loved that one.
That was one of my favorites.
And it just hits you right in the forehead.
I loved it.
I spent a year growing all Brothers Grimm genetics.
And man, it was a really good time.
That is good genetics.
I enjoyed it.
I will never forget that.
If forever you were doing Brothers Grimm, I was like, he feels
about Brothers Grimm the way I feel about dynasties.
It was, dude.
I was like, keep this going, which is excellent because, dude.
Oh, that Grimm glue.
Did you ever cross anything to that Grimm glue?
No, never did a Grimm glue.
You know, that was a good one, too.
That Grimm glue is one of the most beautiful plants that I had grown.
I took a picture of it on OKCALIC page, and it's a beautiful dark red color.
But the thing about the Grimm glues that I grew, the buds are just too small.
You know what I'm saying?
There are lots of them, but they, you know, if you got a kind of a small bud
on the plant, it's going to dry up to a real small bud.
So when I was, you know, doing a lot of the commercial growing,
that just wasn't going to fly.
So it got cut. Right.
Oh, man, that was a great flavored one.
And the consistency of that rosin, too.
I was like butter.
Butter. It was straight butter.
And it came out of the rosin bag.
And just when it hit cooler air, it immediately went to that buttery look.
Oh, it was good stuff.
Nice.
Weren't you working a granddaddy purple there for a while?
Yes. OK, so I had a granddaddy purple.
I lost this granddaddy purple to fungus.
I lost about six tenths one time to some stinking fungus
that got a hold of everything.
And once I saw it, I was like, guys, I got to
got to take it out.
So we wiped out all our kids and started over.
But this granddaddy purple, this granddaddy purple is at the grow.
When I started doing some commercial growing, the grow I went to
had this granddaddy purple and it was in flower and it was so pink and purple.
And I just like that is beautiful.
Again, when I see something I love beauty, I'm attracted to beautiful things.
Yes, I love my I love my plants that flowers in them.
I love the crop cover.
I love the way compost looks when it's through.
But I love that.
And this GDP was so pretty.
There's some guys that are growing GDP killer queen cross right now.
One of his name is
grow so that grow something with Trey, I believe.
He's in the pulpit here in Oklahoma, which is pretty close to me,
about 30 minutes away from me.
He grew a GDP killer queen that came back,
just had a nice kind of purpley look to it.
And it's like, oh, yeah, that was that GDP.
Mama, oh, look how pretty it is.
You know, it was fun to see it again because a lot of nice.
But I do still have some I have a few crosses of GDP and something.
You know what I'm saying?
GDP killer queen GDP lady breath, I think I have still.
So, yeah, nice.
It's still alive.
Would that killer queen.
Why does that sound familiar?
Killer queen is Brothers Grimm.
Killer queen is the male that male I use.
Oh, yes. That was during your brother's Grimm run.
Yeah. And I believe he did the Durbin tie, too, didn't you?
That's correct. I did a Durbin breath.
So I crossed it across a Durbin tie with TKLB.
And I don't have many feeds of Durbin breath,
but I did show my outside Durbin breath on OKCalc genetics.
And it's a it's a looker.
Man, I had some outside plants this year that looked like inside plants.
They were just gorgeous.
Nice. Yeah, I've seen a lot of people growing out your genetics
and you've been sharing it on your story and those plants look amazing.
So would it be fair to say that
from your standpoint, one of the things that you're breeding for
is bag appeal and color?
Well, you know that? Yes.
Now here, let me say, let me let me qualify all this.
As I've done breeding projects, it's been for different reasons,
if you know what I'm saying.
And that that that GDP was definitely because I was like, I want that purple.
I just I don't care how I don't know how good it tastes or not.
I just want to see if I get color in another flower, you know, in its progeny.
And then with Lady Breath, yes, it was pretty, but it was the triangle
Kush and it was the lineage of Lady Breath with that Pam one citrus farmer.
That was definitely the draw that sealed it.
But yeah, I'm a what a beauty slut.
Like I said, if it's pretty, I'm like, oh, man,
I want to see it again.
You know what I'm saying? I just want that beauty.
But of course, I got to have that taste.
It all has its place. You're right.
So before we get going, I want to ask you,
grow green, daddy, pose this question.
I haven't used it for a while. I need to use it again.
He always wants to ask you guys, which one of your creations
do you think represents OK, Calix genetics the best?
Like if there's one that somebody is going to pick out
and you're like, this is the one that I want to represent what I'm doing here.
Oh, what a question.
I have to pick one.
You can pick three.
That's an A3 max.
Oh, fuck. Don't fuck around on me.
Only three. No, I'm joking.
Isn't that an interesting question?
And I don't know if I've ever bred with that mentality in mind.
You know what I'm saying?
Like, I don't know if I ever said I want something to represent what I like,
what I like to smoke, maybe, you know what I'm saying?
But I think what will represent me the most right now is my favorite
that I have yet to flower, and that's blueberry squealer.
I love blueberry.
I fell in love with blueberry muffin the first time I tried it.
And I'm trying to make something great out of it right now.
You know what I'm saying?
And if I can improve on it, who knows?
But I'm starting with something that I just I love and I'll grow it again.
I bought a pack of them a couple of months ago at CannaCon here in Oklahoma.
I bought a pack of reg blueberry muffin seeds just because I'm like,
I just love it. Fuck yeah.
And so, yes, that one has passion in it for me.
Blueberry squealer.
It's a meaningful cross.
Like, I'm really meaning to try to get this flavor out
that made me send you some, you know, that was that dang good.
Yeah. Appreciate it, brother.
So you're really into blueberry.
Not long ago, you played a do or dab.
Yes. On our show on Calixin Crew TV.
And you won some of those seeds from Romulan Jake.
Yes. At Romulan Genetics.
Did you have plans with those?
Oh, man, did I?
The plans are going right now.
I have. So I popped two seeds
about two months ago, both of them male.
I grew them out a little bit and I'm starting.
And they look totally different.
And actually, I was taught I've been talking with Jake.
I was sending pictures of the two different looks.
One look had a thick inside, you know, big, fat,
thick families kind of staying close to the branch and packing in nodes.
And then the the other male, the families,
the stem was noticeably longer, so much so that it seemed to open up the middle.
You know, it seemed to be thin in the middle.
And so anyhow, I threw I cut a cold, the thin looking one.
And I kept that fat, mean looking sucker.
And so I've got one Romulan male that I know for sure is a male right now.
And I also have two new Romulan blueberries that I popped about two weeks ago.
And they're about an inch tall right now.
And they're putting off.
I think they've gone through there.
They're probably a third set of leaves, cotyledon, leaf and leaf right now.
Nice. I think that's going to be an excellent one.
So, yes, what I want.
Oh, my Lord, have you seen it?
He put he put, you know, that was cool about it.
If people don't know is his pictures are amazing.
Yeah. Yeah. Well, people don't know is I got these and I had the male
already picked out that I wanted before he either released him to the public.
That's because the man, Doc Calix and Romulan genetics given him to me, man.
That was cool feeling when he when he released him
and Romulan released it that day, I took that snapshot
and put my male picture right there with it.
And I was like, here it is. It's already growing.
So, yes, I have high hopes for Romulan blueberry.
And I can't wait to to just get it in the mix.
And here's my goal.
Here's the here's the goal that I told a couple of testers that that I work with
is I want to get I want to get one blueberry strain
that has, you know, four blueberry crosses in it.
And that's probably going to be blueberry muffin, blueberry train, Mac Romulan
blueberry and possibly blueberry cupcake from Humboldt that I've got going.
And then I've got another blueberry coming in.
It's it's called African blueberry phenol number three.
And it's from Blackbox genetic.
You told me about that.
Blackbox genetics.
And so it's a it's a blueberry that has a sativa landrace cross in it.
So it's just a different maybe high or a feel, you know,
blueberry is kind of on the Indica side often.
So this is just a little different thing.
But again, for blueberry crosses is my own personal thing.
I just kind of want to have a blueberry strain that I've made that,
you know, from four different blueberry crosses.
And if that don't have a blueberry Turk to it, I don't know what.
You know what I'm saying?
Yeah. So to answer your question, blueberry squealer,
that one's going to define me right now.
Oh, man. Nice.
I appreciate that.
I haven't. Blueberry was never one of my biggest ones.
I do like the flavor, but the high didn't typically work for me.
You've got to try out those blueberry grapefruit from Relic
that I was talking about that had amazing blueberry.
That blue magoo was another one that was really, really good blueberry.
Yeah, I've heard you talk about that so many times.
I still have it.
I hear it, you know, when you go live and stuff, you talk about blue magoo a lot.
And I, I want that like you like it a lot.
Yeah, that's my baby.
That is my baby for sure.
We took so long hunting her.
But yeah. OK. Yeah.
You'll get some love, brother.
Awesome. That's cool.
All right. I am glad that you came on
and shared so much information with us about making hash
on the Pele Pulear book.
That was awesome.
The amount of information that you went on that I learned a lot.
I hope these guys learn a lot.
Your genetics, man.
I've been I've been noticing them and I'm pretty sure other people are, too.
And they are looking beautiful.
So keep up what you're doing.
You've got good intentions in this and we back you 100 percent.
You're a great guy.
And I want to thank you again for coming on and sharing this information with us.
Man, I appreciate it.
I had such a fun time and I'd love to do it again.
It was such a joy talking to you.
Tell your wife, thank you again, because I know it's a big deal.
What's no thankful kid?
Amen. They are a handful.
And you as well with all of yours, with your entire tribe.
Almighty five.
We'll see you soon on another episode of Do or Dab on Calix and Crew TV, correct?
Correct. And you're going to be giving out some of your genetics.
I know the guys are stoked about that, man.
You got to believe it.
I'm going to throw out those blueberry breasts and the blueberry squealers.
And listen, I have not given blueberry squealers, but to I sent some to Brandon
Russ because just as a hey, thank you.
I did some I did this with your work and I'm trying to say thanks, you know,
and I sent it to three testers, I believe.
So I've held it close to me because it's the one I like.
You know, it's the one I kind of want to try to go with.
Wow. Exclusive.
Hell yeah, man.
Appreciate that.
And I appreciate your intent to this and what you do for the cannabis community.
Making drops all the time.
You're just an all around fucking respectful guy.
I appreciate it.
You're doing it right.
And we appreciate you.
Very cool.
All right, man. We will talk to you later.
Thank you, bro. I appreciate it.
See ya.
Thank you, OK, Calix, for coming on and sharing so much great information.
Reviewing the Pele Pelares new book on ice water hash extraction.
Thank you, OK, Calix, for coming on and telling us about your genetics as well.
That blueberry breath sounds amazing.
The TK lady breath crosses pretty fucking outstanding stuff.
Before we get going, though, I want to make you guys aware.
One of our family members, one of our affiliates from Next Light LED,
JD Next Light.
He was recently diagnosed with leukemia
and is undergoing chemotherapy, and it would really, really help.
The guys have started to go fund me to help his family in this time of need.
So go check it out.
You can find it on Professor P's Instagram page.
That is Professor P420 on Instagram.
You can go check him out.
There's a link in his bio that leads to the GoFundMe for JD over there.
If you donate, take a screenshot of it.
Send it to me.
I'll make sure you are put in a drawing for some seeds from my vault.
So go ahead. Go over there.
Donate if you can.
If you can't send JD a word of love for me.
It's much appreciated.
And I will see you guys on the next podcast
with none other than the Duke Diamond.
That's right. Duke Diamonds back, ladies and gentlemen.
Until next time, this is Doc Alex saying good night.
And we're out.
