Good morning everyone and welcome to another exciting episode of the Calix and Crew podcast.
I'm your host as always, Doc Calix.
I'm very excited to introduce that we've got an East Coast breeder on the line today.
My good buddy, Matty from SoLo Farms is on the line.
He's going to be talking to us about some of the cultivars that he's got in stock, his
plans for the future, and what he does as far as breeding for hash returning cultivars.
It's going to be a very cool one.
Before we get into it though, I want to give some love to an affiliate of the show, Coconut
Sensors.
If you guys want one of the best environmental sensors for under $100, push tab notifications
available in a ton of different languages for anybody's growing style, go check them
out at coconut.com.
That's K-O-K-O-N-A-U-T.com.
Use code CALIX, that's all caps C-A-L-Y-X, for 10% off at checkout.
I would also like to give a quick shout out to all my patrons over on Patreon.
Their subscription is really the backbone behind what keeps this content going, which
has me creating new episodes, putting more out, and building the Discord, the Patreon,
and everything that we do bigger and better.
It's been awesome.
It's been an amazing ride so far.
It's really picking up steam, and I've got nothing but love for these guys.
They are my A number one.
They get my full attention.
Anytime they have grow problems, I'm over in the Discord helping them.
They get Q&As with podcast guests, behind the scenes content that nobody else gets to
see.
Do or dab where they win seeds.
We had Duke Diamond on there last week, and he was giving away some of his genetics.
Awesome genetics from an awesome breeder.
Great experience, great time.
If you guys are interested, go check it out at patreon.com forward slash doc underscore
CALIX.
One more time, that is patreon.com forward slash doc underscore CALIX.
Until $10 a month, you get a show support for one of your favorite podcasts.
All in the meanwhile, getting a ton of extras, a ton of exclusives that nobody else gets.
Now let's jump right into the episode.
I'm really, really stoked to talk to Matty over here at Solo Farms.
All right, we got Matthew from Solo Farms on the line.
How are you doing, Matty?
I'm doing good, man.
How are you?
Good, good.
It's nice to hear your voice.
Nice to get to finally talk to you.
For all my followers that have no idea who Solo Farms is, why don't you give them a quick
introduction to who you are and what you do?
Okay.
Just Matthew from Solo Farms.
I live in Maine.
I grow cannabis as a caregiver.
I also breed genetics for cannabis.
It's been a huge passion of mine as far back as I can remember.
That's why I still do it.
I just love what I do.
I enjoy it, man.
I try to do small batch stuff, unique hash makers and extremely beautiful flower with
older things, things that are unique to just me or my area of the country.
And put a different swing with some familiar things that people know from all over the
country.
Try to put my own little twist on it.
Hell yeah.
When were those beginning phases?
When did you get into growing cannabis?
So growing, first time growing.
I want to say that was, it was outside.
And I want to say that was 1992.
Just me and a buddy had some seeds we found in bags.
You know what I mean?
That's what you had seeds back in the day.
I was like, man, I'd really like to see if we could grow our own.
And during those years in the summertime, there was always a drought.
So we're like, well, I'll take some of these seeds and start growing our own.
Maybe we could supplement at the end of the year.
Just kids, just young guys, just playing around and seeing what we could do.
And I guess that's kind of sparked it, man.
We ended up actually doing OK.
And first time doing it, you're like, oh, wow, this is so cool.
And we just, back then, all you would see is coming in a bag or a brick.
And then to actually see the plant looking like something we used to see it
in high times magazines was just crazy to me.
For sure.
What were some of those first cultivars that you fell in love with?
Oh, god.
Some of the first ones I want to say, playing around with as far as back then,
it was Mexican Indica, Sativas, land racy stuff.
And then we had some buddies up north in northern New England
that were doing it a little bit longer, like their dads were,
or their family were, unlike my own.
And we ended up getting a couple cuts and stuff.
And through Black Market, getting seeds from different various ways,
just unique things.
I'd say Rock Bud was one of them from Soma.
New York City Diesel.
And just so many.
God Bud, I mean, Adults Vita.
Was that Soma's NYCD?
Yeah.
That was a good one.
New York City Diesel, which I did earlier work with.
Unfortunately, I took it to F2.
And because of that chem family, it just always
seemed to carry some hermaphroditic traits.
So we just kind of left it alone.
You would find some really nice things.
But if you weren't adamant enough, or if you went away for the day
and came back and something happened, it just, you know,
it was just something that we didn't want to.
And back then, I just didn't know enough to really say, hey,
stress test these things in different ways.
And over time, reading about it.
Obviously, friends like Chris helping in so many different ways.
Just dropping these little knowledge bombs every once in a while on me
during conversations helped improve that.
And then asking questions.
And then just going for it, too, man.
Breeding cannabis is definitely, for looking for certain things,
it's so much different than just growing cannabis only for flower.
Absolutely.
So many different components to it.
And hopefully, I think a lot of people, when they get it,
if they're trying into it, or even just like a novice, just home grower,
saying, man, these two things are really nice.
And to be honest with you, everybody out there that
is a breeder or upcoming breeder, we were all in that same spot at one point.
And just saying, man, these are really nice.
And I think back then, too, a lot of people
were nervous about ordering seeds online.
It was sketchy years ago.
So I think certain people were just making their own.
Having something that stood out in their area and said, hey, we did this.
And over the years, obviously, it's gotten so much more intricate.
When I do it, I look for, depending on what I'm using and what the end result,
at least of that particular project, is as far as a goal, an end goal.
Stability of mail, what does that mail and lineage bring to the table?
It's not just because of the strain that I like.
It has a lot of different components, medicinal value, everything like that.
Is it a short-growing plant that I'm going to try to put it with and pair it
with as a female?
And this male has a lot more vigor.
And I can open it up and maybe get the veg time a little faster,
all those little different intricacies.
Yeah, for sure.
The cool thing about breeding is I find it's much like art.
Every breeder's got their own little flair, their own little fling that they
kind of throw on things.
And that's kind of what attracts us to these certain people.
I'm still kind of in those beginning stages, still learning about breeding.
And one of the things that I've definitely picked up is that when you've got a
project in mind, you have to have your goals, right?
Because you have to have those boxes that it meets those expectations.
And anything that doesn't automatically make those expectations, it's gone, right?
Yeah, you can't waste a kit.
You don't want to put any more energy or time into it.
Absolutely.
So I wanted to ask you, for you, what's your artistic touch?
What are those boxes that, you know, every project's going to have some a little
bit different.
Is there anything that you find that box is consistently going through all of your
cultivars, everything that you're producing?
Are you going for turps?
Are you going for resin return?
So always resin return and turps.
Pretty much the most important part, the medicinal part of that plant.
Don't get me wrong, I love an amazing flower.
Looking at amazing boutique or artisanal style flower, especially nowadays in this
new market with so many stores and people, it's so much easier for them to go in,
and look at something pretty versus, you know, it catches their eye.
It's beautiful.
Yeah.
The biggest thing for me with, let's just say, the Skittles Blissful Wizard
product project that I did, that male just added vigor, stack.
That male just stacks really well.
Super resilient to pests, whiting, heat stresses, cold stresses, food stresses,
like overwatering, underwatering, all those different things just kind of chugs
right through.
Not super picky, but the biggest thing about him was adding resin.
Just really packing in resin in all those little areas where certain strains,
because of the head size or just what it is, it's there, it looks beautiful,
but you know, the certain ones that just really pack in.
Right.
That's really my biggest thing.
Like, I'm growing for hash.
That's what I want.
And hash, I love tasty, beautiful, good producing hash that people are going to enjoy,
and that growers want to grow because they can actually get a yield.
That was really something.
And just because I paired them with certain ones, even though I, with all testing,
and then growing these all out, and then doing washes on everything,
doesn't mean that my bale, even though I put it to it, is going to always link up.
Right.
You know, it's not a guarantee.
Nothing's guaranteed.
I think my intention had some what to do with it, and then just, man, it was, you know,
just putting in the time and really watching, and then also picking specific females
that just had excellent properties already.
And it's just, like I said, I'll say it again, it doesn't guarantee you anything,
but it's definitely a good step forward into the end goal.
I don't know, man.
I wouldn't downplay it too much.
I grew that mountain wizard from you.
And every single one of those females was a resin hog.
Even at the end of the day, you could get the best of each, combine them.
Sometimes it just does not work.
Right.
Like Chris has told me so many times, like, man, we have all the right intentions,
and this is what I remember from this one, and then when you pair it up,
and sometimes it just don't link well.
Yeah.
And by the grace of God and a little bit of luck, and with some foresight, I guess,
and a little help, man, it just worked, bro.
That's all I got to say.
Yeah.
And the positive feedback.
And I guess, you know, another thing that maybe helped too is before even releasing
these projects and showing people on the Solo Farms page, like, hey,
this was the great five.
This is this.
This is this.
And showing them, and then working with those products, and then having
availability to them, you know, to key people, and getting it out there so people
can actually try it and then know.
And then I think coming out with a product that I made myself with some of these ones
that they were already enjoying just kind of paired well, man.
It just worked out, brother.
It just really did.
I think about it a lot, and I'm just like, wow, you know, at least with that particular
one, because I did enough work with it, but like I said, it doesn't guarantee you anything.
Now, if I was talking about maybe the grapefruit work.
Epic.
There's been so many years of that since 2010.
I mean, I got me and a buddy got the seeds in 2005 for those out at the Amsterdam High
Times Cup.
And I think around 2009, 10 is when we started playing around with them.
And we did them inside, outside, found some really nice things, found a nice male, did
some preservation work so we could keep more of the genetics to go through for further
work, just because it did so amazing up here outside.
And it just seemed like, man, this thing's so strong.
She's super healthy, super vigorous.
Man, let's try to, I think this would work really well with some other stuff that we
have at the current time.
And so we, I think we brought it up to 2015.
We had about five years of work with it.
Every year we did some populations of them, varied amounts.
Finally came and narrowed down to F2s.
And, oh God, I want to say we finished that up in the fall of 2014.
And then Chris had come out in 2015 for a MMGM show and we were doing the seed booth.
So he came out for the weekend and just funny story, he was like, yeah, I brought this up.
Let's try this.
And it was Charlotte's Web.
And one of his buddies that was actually doing the extraction had a cut of this grapefruit
from Steve.
And it was amazing.
So he was like, hey, instead of me running mine separately, why don't we just put ours
both together?
I think it'd be super tasty and really medicinal from the Charlotte's Web.
Chris was like, yeah, sure, cool.
So Friday night we get out of the show, we smoke some and we're smoking it all night.
Then Saturday comes around and there was a bunch of us in the hotel room just hanging
out and we're smoking.
And I'm like, man, this would be just kind of crazy.
I'm like, you have the Charlotte's Web?
And he's like, yeah.
I was like, man, I was like, how is she?
As far as brome wise, obviously not medicinal wise.
So he was giving me some backstory on her and how it was for him.
And he was like, man, I'd almost think about getting that cut and maybe doing something
with that.
I was like, well, shit, Chris, I got grapefruit F2s that we have.
And I'd love to put some in your hand.
Let's do like, let's do some collab work and maybe hopefully end up finding something and
then read like, let's make this drink.
It's super delicious and it made us feel good all weekend.
Absolutely.
You guys knocked it out of the park on that one.
I'm really glad you brought that up.
I think one of the things that is my like paintbrush to the canvas for me is a couple
of really good friends with knowledge.
Me, obviously having some ears to listen, but my eye, man, and I don't know where I got it from.
I just have it.
Some people got it.
And I for cannabis, man, to watch how these girls grow.
And I guess I guess it kind of came out of necessity because in the in the beginning,
when I first started doing this, having like, you know, smaller children being super discreet,
limited spacing, really paying attention to what I needed and what I could use.
So I guess that kind of help.
Narrows down those Easter eggs quick when you got to get shit out because you need room, right?
Yeah.
And it just I think it heightens certain senses more than others because that's how I feel.
And I think that's probably why some of it.
And then just I love this plant, man.
This plant is just no matter what, from a young age, always helped me and so many other people around.
And I'm like, man, and obviously, you know, as young kids, like mid 80s and through the 90s,
looking at high times and you're seeing all this and these guys are like, wow, they're so underground.
And this is so cool. Like we're getting brickweed back here, but these guys are on Cali, frothing it.
And just seeing all those different all the different expressions of this, this plant.
And I'm like, man, I'd really love one day to be able to say I've found some unique things and then things that are familiar to people.
And I can maybe hopefully make some of that for not only myself, but maybe to share.
And then in sharing, that's how it all started.
Just like making some beans, super early projects, knowing what I'm looking for, but maybe not having a super end goal, just open expressions.
Knowing what's there is really good. Passing out a lot of free seeds.
It's almost like paying your dues when you're getting into breeding, right?
Yeah. And just like putting them into people that I look kind of I looked up to and then other people in my same position or people that maybe you're just starting out and saying,
yeah, man, I know it's tight down springtime. You got to spend money on this and this, this, this and this.
Here's some seeds. Go try some of these. They've done really well for me.
Hopefully, you know, we're in the same climate and area.
Let's see if you like them to just add them, you know, just a few of something different.
And I don't know, just with that, it just kind of worked out really well, you know?
Yeah, just kind of fell into place, I guess, little bits at a time. It definitely takes time.
I've been extremely happy with everything that we've grown from you.
And I don't want to quite get off. I could praise you forever on the Mountain Wizard.
And we were definitely going to get into some of the other stuff that you're working with. But I want to get back to that grapefruit really quick.
You and P had completely different cuts of the grapefruit, right? What made what happened there?
Well, Chris ended up taking finding an amazing male out of the F2 stock that I gave him.
Because at the time I was building my new building and everything. And I said, Chris, I got to kind of take a backdrop to this.
But if you want to you have an amazing eye. And if I was going to trust anyone with these, I would, you know, my brother.
Yeah. And Chris has that eye plus.
So I knew that I was more than confident that Chris would take it to the next level, really.
And definitely do it justice. But keep in mind of where I was going to and keeping it open a little bit.
And I think in the beginning, Chris, he kept it open and then, you know, seeing some really cool things that he had in his stable like that Durban.
Some of the older stuff and, you know, with coming out with that new Relic line, it just seemed to pale.
It was just the right time. Everything just kind of in it.
And now you're at F4, right?
I'm at F4. I'm actually went back in on F2s.
Doing a large population and F4s.
And going back through now, hopefully we'll see how things are by fall.
I should be able to start getting the F5s into testing is the goal.
Whether that completely works out is all in what we're finding now.
From those F2s to this F4 that you're at now, what's changed in the phenotypes?
Or I should say genotypes. What's changed in the genotypes?
Are we seeing more like the sweet pink grapefruit?
Are we seeing more of both the sweet pink and the inbred line type of stuff? What's going on?
When Chris was doing his, he had a certain flavor that he was looking for.
He had a really nice, sweet, pinky grapefruit.
And he knew that's what I really liked, with a little bit of funk in it.
And I think Chris was looking more of that sour, funky grapefruit, more gassy.
And so that's where he wanted to take his part of the work to.
Thus, the Relic grapefruit, using that same cut that was in the oil that sparked the whole thing up.
Went back to that mutual buddy and ended up doing some work with that cut, which is Brita Steve's cut of the grapefruit.
And I mean, it all comes from that same lineage, even my seeds.
It's just I used stuff that I find and what we enjoy.
Right.
When it came time to do the F4s, I've only released the A version.
So I have A through D on the F4s.
And I basically did it so I wanted to keep my expressions open.
I didn't want to bottleneck it into just one thing because I want to get these out there and see what.
Now, I know what I like, but people that are grabbing my gear, they might want that open expression because they've seen it.
My version of it, Chris's version of it, and then obviously multiple hybrids.
So when I was pairing females with that male, I ended up taking a sweet pink grapefruit that was like short and stocky, more indica growth,
and then a more sativa, more faster, vigorous female on the sweet side and use those two.
And then the other end of the spectrum, that more gassy New York City, like diesel-y red grapefruit, but like a little more sour with the same stretch.
A short indica stach with like a more stacked internodal spacing, and then something with a little bit more of a stretch and a little bit different of a spacing.
So I could keep everything open because as far as further project, at that time I'm like, I don't want to just make this one thing.
This is how I'm going to really find it. When I find it, I'm going to build.
Yeah, I think that was a good approach too because they were all great in their own right. That's for certain.
Yeah, and I feel like if I didn't do that, then I'd be limiting myself and then other people too.
Oh, absolutely.
And I want everyone to enjoy these the way that these things caught my eye.
And it's so funny the way cannabis trends in the markets go. We've had these for so long and been smoking on it, but then everything went through with cookies and then all the other different hybrids.
And don't get me wrong, I love all of it. I appreciate every strain for what they are.
I'm never going to bash on one style of breeding and or kind of cannabis. They all have their purpose.
I agree.
I think the grapefruit and me starting to open up into breeding, I just felt like I should definitely keep that going and keep it open because it's kind of unique to me and this other guy.
I think he ended up selling all his share of his seeds from that season and I wanted him for preservation. I knew what I wanted to do with him.
And it was just like, I don't ever want this girl to go away because how many strains have been lost without hindsight?
Yeah, and that's one that's got to stick around. I got to say that's probably still to this day one of my favorite smokes of all time.
Yeah, and I mean, she's been around for a long time and I think people kind of like, oh, this is so good. But then, you know, some new things come. Oh, wow, this is so good, too.
It's natural instinct. Everyone's going to, I mean, variety is awesome. It's the spice of life. But I also like something I can go back to that's reminiscing.
Yes, absolutely.
And it's just a flavor that can take you back to a memory and a good time, you know? So it wasn't just about the strain. It was about those memories. It was a collective thing, I feel.
And I think I would have been doing it an injustice of not keeping it around. So that's why when I chose someone, if anybody was going to work with me, it would be Chris.
That's my brother. I love him. And he loves that plant. And I love Chris and have the utmost admiration for him because he stays in his own, like he made his own lane.
Yeah, absolutely.
Everything that he has is so unique to him and he doesn't sway. And don't get me wrong, he's worked with some stuff that's familiar with other people, too, because it's smart. And to be honest with you, those cherry vanilla cookies and all this cookie strains, that platinum cookies is fire.
Oh, fire is fuck.
It's so different than a lot of the other cookie hybrids that are out there. So still, even then, even doing cookie strains, learning Chris on those notes, he's stayed so individual and true.
And consistent.
Super consistent. Taking so many pages out of his book and just dinner after dinner and event after event with him and just even just phone calls, just taking all of that info and just getting that vibe, too. You know, just you could talk forever.
So easygoing, so humble, so open with information, too. But he's not scared to share where it's like, you know, in the early years, no one wanted to tell anybody anything. Oh, you got to learn that yourself. And I think we've all gone through that if you're within a certain age. I mean, if you're 40 or younger, you've definitely felt that.
Oh, yeah, for sure. It's good to have somebody around like him that's, you know, willing to willing to help out. And he's always been one of those people that he's over the top. He was one of the first people, the first time I met him, he put my kids before anybody else. He wanted to make sure that they had juice, they had drinks, they were ready, they were happy before we even started talking. And it's like, God damn, that is. I mean, it shows the character quality, you know?
Oh, he's a genuine dude. That's why I love him, man. He's such a good guy. So I've taken so many things with when I think of those kind of relationships and then working with my own personal stuff. I keep all those things in mind. And it's like, I can't let these guys down because they've never let me down. And I would be like kind of doing a disjustice if I did. I think like that's how I feel like I can't do that.
And he was super supportive even before I even decided doing anything after the collaborative work. You know, I talked to him and I said, Hey, Chris, I said, you know, man, I said, now that I've done what I've had to do with the building, all the caregiving stuff is well on its way and all that stuff's kind of whatever, you know, I'm really thinking going back in on the true passion and really doing some work with this breeding.
I just want you to know that I'm going to definitely start going back in on these grapefruits. And but I want to ask you and say something to you because I know that we've done some collaborative work and you've already released some things. And he was so good about it. He's like, Are you kidding me? Why? You do whatever you want. Like, you gave me these like, yeah. And that's just the person he is. But me being the person I am, I have to be transparent. I'm going to ask.
And if he felt a way, like I said, maybe we'll just keep working on them. Maybe we do some more collaborative work with it. Or maybe I had a different, you know, vision for it. And no, that was not the case. Not at all. Which made me even want to push even harder with it.
Good. I'm glad you did.
Man, I am just so happy and grateful that I'm getting so much amazing feedback from everyone, brother. Like, and everyone's really enjoying them and being supportive. And for the most part, like anyone that follows us, like, really just is like, hey, these are just amazing. Like, wow, is everyone's like, the buzz is going around and the photos are coming out.
People are actually getting to enjoy some of the extracts and the flower at their local, you know, stores or person. And then obviously their own personal experiences, either growing in their garden inside or outside. It's kind of just built itself. And now that it's going, I don't even know, man. I still, I'm like, man, we just had this and we were enjoying it.
No one really knew about it. Like, we all knew it was like true cannabis enthusiasts and that grapefruit was around. But to have like a strain and then work on it locally and then just like people locally, like, you know, it's OK. Like, and then some people really enjoying it. But we really just loved it. And it wasn't just.
And to be honest with you, the F2s, Superterpie, huge blobs, shortens the time on anything that's bigger like a you can't believe you shorten the time on it. Oh, I shorten the time. Like anything that that grapefruit touches shortens the time.
They were already short when I grew up.
So which ones did you have?
The Relic grapefruit, the Relic grapefruit, the inbred line was a little bit longer, but the sweet pink, I mean, that that stuck out like a sore thumb. You know, that thing was just stacked up bushy, fucking yielded like a mother.
Just stacked up.
So I think when Chris was doing that Relic, I think because Chris loves Sativa.
Yeah, it's his true passion. And to be honest with you, I love Sativa too.
I'm the same.
And I think that gassier one of what I've seen out of populations, the gassier, more acrid, sour, citrus, phenos are a little more stretchier with a little more spacing.
A little more.
Still having nice stacks, beautiful stack flowers, but definitely more stretching.
And I think that has to do with just that particular version of the plant that you're looking for.
That's what he likes. So I believe when he bred it, you know, certain characteristics just remain more dominant.
Yes.
I've done some of my buddies that have even out here. There's been a lot of.
What is the name of that male?
Oh, it's like a Kimbo Kush.
OK.
And this Kimbo Kush, no matter what it touched, just was so that Kimbo Kush male was so dominant.
That's all you would 95 percent of the time.
That's all you was getting was Kimbo Kush.
Whereas on these grapefruits, you're going to pretty much see, I mean, you'll even you can get some different terms, but pretty much for the most part, that is citrus.
It is sweet pink grapefruit.
Oh, for sure.
Orange peel.
And then that soury, a little more gassy like that.
I definitely found exactly what you were saying.
My inbred line phenos, they had huge internodes.
We're talking like two, three inches, but they have these rock hard buds on them.
Now, here's a funny story for you.
I'd already been growing for quite a few years by this point.
I already knew how to take clones and everything, but that was the one that really told me, take a clone of everything because the sweet pink was an obvious like I'm taking a I'm taking a cut.
Of this, we're going to test it out.
We're going to try it out some more and, you know, see how it reacts in different environments.
The inbred line I wasn't as interested in because those long internodes and it's like, oh, God, that's just a mess of a plant, you know, but it smelled so fucking beautiful.
I was interested in it.
It wasn't until after I cut it down that I was like, oh, my God, this it's that citrus sour that and not just citrus sour, not like a lemon sour.
It's got that grapefruit fucking beautiful sour, you know.
So I guess that's the other thing.
So like when I say hash and terpenes and I kind of get this from like me and Chris share this.
I'm a terpore.
I love flavor.
I love food. I love just the smell things.
I love the taste of different things.
And just like with unique meals and, you know, they pair well with a bunch of different ingredients that just sometimes you look at them and you're like, what the fuck?
There's no way that's going to taste.
But when you layer those flavors, they do.
Oh, yeah, for sure.
I guess my point where I'm going with this is like on that mountain wizard, just to say one, my hope with the Skittles and then that mountain drop was just getting layered flavors.
Like you're tasting one thing on the way out and when you on the way in and then when you blow out, it's like, what the fuck?
Dude, that's so different.
Like it's two different sides.
Oh, yeah.
Go like Bob Ross on his painting and say happy little accidents.
Well, there's that happy little accident, I guess.
That was a damn good accident.
I know. And I said, well, I got to say, man, is it was amazing genetics.
I paired them. It just worked out, dude.
And with definitely with some effort, I'm not going to say that it wasn't.
But who knew that that layering, that was my wish and what I was going for as far as therapy profile.
And it just hit it on the head.
And it was just one of those like, yeah, you know, you take your fist and you bring your elbow down like, yeah, I did it like it was, you know, and I'm usually not that guy.
I'm like, I'm just not.
But man, that was like, yes, that definitely worked.
My buddy just pulled some down.
So, you know, we rolled one up, obviously.
And he took the first couple of hits.
He's like, what the fuck?
This is like sweet candy orange.
He goes, but when I blow it out, it's like a whole bag of skittles.
And I did get one that was bad, but it but it coats it.
Honestly, one of my favorite ones that I found out that Madden Wizard came out.
It had such an interesting profile.
A lot of them were heavy, heavy in that orange.
But I got one that had like a floral, soapy, fresh mintiness to it.
Yeah, amazing.
And that one that one fucks you up.
I believe that.
I believe it.
So see, there's where those that's the other thing that's super nice about regular beans.
And with some of these things, the way they pair together, all of a sudden you're like, oh, where did this offshoot come?
Because like 80 percent, 85 percent of the time, you're going to get like one of the skittles, all of the skittles, the orange, the combination.
Like, depending on the color, you'll get different variations of color, maybe a little bit on Kalix Production, Fox Dailing, and or like hard, like some are a little bit harder.
Some are a little bit, you know, because of that Mountain Trap.
Like Mountain Trap's not a super hard bud, but it's open and it's a great hash maker.
And the turps are just off the chives.
Yes.
Whereas the Z-Wiz was a really stacked bud that was a lot more denser with even more resin population.
And then this super unique terpene profile off the male, just on the stem.
And then made, I have F2s of that as well.
I did a limited release of those and I still have, I had eight.
Oh, God, I had three of the females and I kept those expressions open to further work just to kind of keep aside.
And then I wanted to put a few into some people's hands and see what they were finding before I go any further.
Nice, man.
What's your idea behind pairing some of these up?
You said you work with some of the older stuff.
You work with the newer stuff.
You're no shy to that, obvious.
But what is it that, like when you're going after something, where do you go?
Well, I think that's going to pair good with this.
Okay, so let's say, you know, you get a clone or you smoke some flounder.
Like, wow, this is really amazing.
And I've been seeing it out there, people growing it.
You get it, you grow it.
And I don't know, it's just something that held tight to me.
It's just like caught my eye.
And I think it would pair well with what I'm trying to do.
And I think I consider myself a pretty good judge of what people like.
I'm pretty picky and I know what I like and everyone else enjoys it.
So I'm like, man, if I put these two slaves together, even though some of it's already been done and there's a bunch of Tropicana cookies out there and crosses, but not this.
And then that's okay.
I just like them.
I enjoyed these and I was like, well, let me while I'm playing around, let me make my own version.
And I guess some of it was as a caregiver in a state that's recreational as well and having so many different stores and all these different things coming up with so many other caregivers growing.
I wanted to have my own genetics that were familiar.
So if someone, oh, that's drop stuff.
I've smoked that, but not this one because I'm the only one who has it.
And I guess that was some of the reasoning to just having my own unique genetics.
So like when people are looking for a certain thing, like, oh, I want that.
I like this, but this one's, man, I just like this one better.
It tastes a little bit better when I grow it.
It's just more of what I'm looking for compared to this one.
Basically trying to improve things that I liked.
But even if like great pie, let's say, for instance, great pie is an amazing plant.
And super tasty.
Let's be honest, it grows like shit and has super small, but that's how I was what I was going to say about the trough.
You know, so like all of them really does not a producer.
So like I'm trying to make it so it's similar.
What is a better producer?
Yeah.
Add to it. Add a little more vigor to it.
Add more structure to it.
Some strength, blood size, more hash population.
Just always trying to improve on it.
Not take them really away from it, but definitely add and influence it positively.
You're finding cultivars that you really like and you're making them better.
You're matching them up, trying to improve on it.
Seeing the flaws and pairing the male with it.
I think that at least the males that I have are more stable.
And using them to their benefit, not just making it just to make it.
And don't get me wrong.
Some of them in there were just really nice females.
And some of it I probably will never release.
But some of it I've added in to it just to say just have a different offshoot.
Like, man, this cheese is really good.
But he's kind of growing like shit too.
It's all small bunch, but the fucking weed's amazing.
It's got this really great high.
It's reminiscent of good times that I've had my friends in the past.
Pain in the ass and pickle.
Some of them are picky on feed.
Some of them are super stretchy.
Some of them just aren't stretchy at all.
You can fudge them forever.
So I guess when I did some Skittles work, Skittles is an amazing cultivator.
Ugly flower, super tasty flower though.
If you smoke the real Skittles, you know as well as I do,
as good as from the first hit all the way down to the last.
But she doesn't really grow super well.
So she takes so long on veg.
So some guys are like, oh, you know, it's a nine-week strain.
It is a nine-week strain.
But if I didn't add this to it, it would have been longer.
You know, like always trying to make it better.
Sometimes the female is only bringing color and hash production.
Other than that, she's not bringing anything else.
Maybe her name because people are known for her.
And I'm always going to keep it transparent.
I'm going to say, yes, I use this.
This is what it is.
And some people are like, oh, man, I grew that green pie.
But shit, it didn't give me it.
We'll try this one.
This is why we cross these things and try to make them better
because it really does have some amazing qualities.
That's good to hear.
I never did get to grow that great pie.
But I was going to say that about that trop.
You know, you definitely improved on that.
I've always loved the taste of the trop cookies.
But every time I've grown it or had a phenotype and an outcrossing of it
that leans heavy towards the trop side, it's got beautiful, beautiful flowers.
It smells amazing.
It tastes great.
The potency is eh, and the yield, shit.
Yield, shit.
It's kind of wispy a little.
They're not very dense buds.
They're not rocks by any means.
And small, just really small bud sets.
Yeah, and I definitely did not have that problem with the Mountain Wizard at all.
I was getting phenotypes that expressed that flavor.
But with the Skittles yield, the beautiful bag of peel, the buds,
I love the bud flower shape on it, honestly.
Yeah.
That's kind of, you know, and really trying to influence that bud structure.
Make it so it's a little bit easier to trim.
So when I say in a positive way, I want guys to not only get the yield,
but it's better trimming.
So if it's better trimming, that's more production.
It's more productive.
It means that you can spend less time doing that kind of work
and more time where you need to be.
So you would say that's one of your goals as well as that brack to leaf ratio?
Yeah, I want that.
I definitely am always thinking about the grower and the caregiver
and just even down to the patient,
making it streamlining every part of that whole process.
Hell yeah.
But giving them something that's like, oh, well, it's familiar.
Damn, man, this is pretty damn close to what I was seeing,
but I get, look how much better it is.
And I think a lot of guys want to do that.
That's my main goal, though, always trying to make it better.
That's why I like that grapefruit. It's amazing.
Anything it touches, it just turns it to gold.
The male, me and Chris was sending back, he was telling me,
he was like, oh, man, this F2 male, he's like, I can't let it go.
It's just so nice.
I'm like, well, did it grow like this and this and this?
Because I remember from projects in the past,
this is kind of what I was looking for and then sending me pitches.
And so when I went into my population going back in to do some further work with it,
that's kind of what I was looking for as well.
Super fast. In fact, that male out of all of them, my God,
it would eat anything you could throw to it.
Not picky at all.
It's not that it's a super heavy feeder.
It's just not picky.
You shouldn't have really had a hard time as far as like the nutrient regimen with it, did you?
No, not at all.
So that's another thing all the way down to that.
And don't get me wrong, some of these just like some of the chems and the oldest translate,
some of them are just like, I want food like me.
But at the end of the day, especially with costs just rising, electric bills,
just rising soil and nutrients and just all of those things.
That was I was always trying to shave costs myself in a smart way.
I mean, that's part of business.
So if I can shave off either some veg time because I added bigger,
but yet still kept the same quality that I was looking for and the end result,
there's my influence.
Always looking to definitely make a positive influence.
So that way it's just a better product.
Easier to work with, yet simpler.
In the entire time you're putting, you know, like you said,
the caregiver and the patient in your forefront of what you're breeding.
That's pretty damn cool, Maddie.
Yep.
Like I'm a patient myself, so I put the care into it that I want for myself,
that I put into it for everyone else.
Amen.
All right.
Before we get going to break here really quick,
you have a seed bank that you're running over there on the East Coast, right?
Yes.
What's the website for that?
Let's shout that out really quick.
That is mainlymerchandise.com.
It is spelled M-A-I-N-E, main, L-Y,
merchandise, M-E-R-C-H-N-A-N-D-I-S-E.com.
Mainlymerchandise.com.
Mainlymerchandise.com, guys.
I carry you'll find all kinds of good genetics there.
I have stuff from Relic and Dynasty.
I did have some other guys on there.
I've kind of taken off a couple of the breeders for no specific reason other
than I'm just wanting to do more New England based,
and then people that I've been working with, which is Chris.
I've been working with Chris the longest out of everyone
and have the utmost respect for Chris.
I will always do that until I can't, for sure.
Then my other buddy from Vermont, inspirational seed co-food.
Good deal.
Yeah.
Check out the website, guys.
Definitely, I would love for you guys to do that.
Right now, unfortunately, there's no payment option on it,
but you can leave a message on there and we can figure out all those details.
No problem.
Awesome.
All right.
We're going to go to break really quick.
We'll be right back with Solo Farms,
and we're going to talk more about some of his old other cultivars that he's
got going on.
What is up, everybody?
While we are on a short break,
I want to give a quick shout out to a sponsor and affiliate of the show,
Coconut Sensors.
If you guys have ever been like me,
you probably bought a $10 crappy ass sensor that you were throwing on the
bottom of your tent,
checking the environment from a place that isn't going to monitor where you
want it to be monitored.
You have to get into the tent just to check on it,
which disrupts your environment as is.
You no longer have to do that with Coconut.
You guys can go over to K-O-K-O-N-A-U-T.com.
That's Coconut.com.
Use code KALYX at checkout.
That's all caps.
C-A-O-Y-X to get a truly portable wireless wifi device that brings climate
insight into the palm of your hands.
Push notifications directly to your phone,
keep you in dial with your environment data 100% of the time.
Go check them out at Coconut.com.
All right,
we are back with Solo Farms.
We just had a smoke break.
We got to talk about genetics a little bit.
I am now smoking on a very orange Fino that I pulled out of the Mountain
Wizard.
We were talking about that before the break,
the Mountain Wizard,
the grapefruit.
I want to talk about some of the other stuff that you're really proud of that
you've made.
What has popped out where,
how many different strains now?
Quite a few.
You have a lot on your website.
That's for sure.
Oh,
there's so many,
but out of all of them,
which one stuck out?
So the,
Oh God,
the God of the pancakes out of the pancakes work,
uh,
stuffed strawberry crepes that the pan,
the London pound cake on Cushman's 11 times the strawberry cough from
Cushman.
Just an amazing plant all the way around inside,
outside works really well up here.
To be honest,
the strawberry cough,
you know,
another one of those that was a really tough,
super long veggie plant and just no stretch whatsoever.
Just like nothing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But the,
yeah.
And just took forever.
Just ever.
It just keep going super cough down to it,
which I don't mind as long as I'm actually at the end of it.
It's worth that time.
One way or another.
Right.
Right.
It was always,
don't get me wrong.
It was always worth it one way or another,
especially for the turps.
She wasn't always the prettiest looking flower.
So the pancakes added a little bit kind of like a makeover as far as
visual appearance,
a tighter nub structure,
easier to trim,
a better Caleb's leaf ratio,
shorten the flower time,
added a different high to it.
Definitely a different depth to the flavors.
What was nice is that on that particular strain,
everything that we found and everything that everyone else is finding is
that it,
I was so grateful that the mail didn't take away from that strawberry
cough.
Like when you hear strawberry,
you're looking for that.
Absolutely.
At least,
you know,
that kind of red berry and it's just tried and true.
The best part of it was that it added,
it took away the bench time,
gave it a better spacing while keeping the buds,
the buds,
good size and overall weight.
You're getting a yield now,
better hash production,
better bag appeal,
better overall.
I think feeling that affects from it.
Didn't just limit it to that sativa.
It is a sativa dominant hybrid,
but you will find certain genus of that will lean a little more towards,
you know,
the strawberry end of it.
But that was really one of my favorites out of that.
Super nice.
The other one that I really like out of those were the bootcamp breakfast as
well.
Super nice.
They paid,
they just linked together.
Just amazing.
The colors from both ends.
That was the other thing that.
And what was the cost on that?
So that is the,
the London pound cakes,
the pancakes,
mail times,
military chocolate,
which I phenotype from seeds I got from only see go.
Okay.
I found a really nice,
you know,
of it that would out of all of them that just stood out out of all of it.
Super chocolatey,
earthy,
just the most resinous out of all of them.
Nice blood structure,
not super huge buds,
but they were rocks and res is cut of Bubba times the Tropicana F2.
Okay.
So that that's what makes up the military chocolate.
And so the cookies added that hardness to it.
Obviously the resin to the bubble.
I like the bubble for the medicinal value.
Obviously the bud size,
you know,
nice girth to it.
And then the colors,
you know,
that's the other thing that I failed to mention with the stuff.
Strawberry crepes is the,
you know,
you'll get colors coming out of all of that pancakes.
Mail,
definitely some beautiful colors coming out of those.
So that's another thing to look forward to that.
Anything from purple to reds.
So then you add that to strawberry and it's just instant bag appeal and visual
terpenes,
man,
just really nice.
Good deal,
man.
Good deal.
Two of the ones that really caught my eye that I picked,
I actually,
actually there's one that we can't even ignore now that we've talked about the
grapefruit for so long is that new one that I grabbed from you,
the strawberry grapefruit bananas.
Tell me you've gone through that.
I want to know more about this.
I'm excited about it.
So the 14 or cut is amazing hash cultivator and amazing terpenes.
She's always not the best as far as like flower yield.
So then my hopes with the grapefruit was to just add the girth and shorten the
timeline while keeping the hash there.
Add another layer of flavor.
Super nice.
Like,
I mean,
strawberries,
bananas,
grapefruits,
like it's just fruity,
super terpy.
I feel like there's so much gas out there that fruit that is the hash producer,
but with a different level of citrus onto it,
that influence is just something that will be unique.
Yeah,
for sure.
Yeah.
So that's kind of what I was looking forward to improve on that straw Nana
while keeping like definitely all the unique characteristics of it and the
positives from it that people enjoy.
I can't really answer you go ahead.
Hash producer.
And that's one of the things that I appreciate about you,
Maddie,
is a lot of people know me for like hunting through land races or fucking
with true hybrids or heirlooms and things like that.
And I'm just not into a lot of the more modern stuff.
But one of the things that I constantly tell my guys is if I'm going to fuck
with modern genetics,
like it's going to be Maddie's he's already impressed me multiple times.
And now you're taking my fucking the one I love grapefruit.
And I'm not so familiar with the straw Nana.
And I have smoked it a couple of times and I love the turps on it.
But I did grow the strawberry Mamba number four for quite a while.
I don't know if you're familiar with that one at all.
Yes.
I've heard of it for sure.
I never I've never played with it myself.
And I have never really similar.
Very similar to like the straw Nana flavors with less of the banana,
more focused on that strawberry, but a very,
very similar strawberry taste.
Nice.
And I've grown that one so much just because of the flavor on it.
And I cannot see that match up between your straw Nana and the,
and the grapefruit going bad in any way.
I don't think so.
I think everything that we've seen is just wow.
Good, good, good, good.
Wow, man.
Well, here's another one.
It's just another one.
Yeah.
You know,
And that's one.
Well,
I'm in that stage right now where I'm really,
I'm doing a lot more dabs.
My wife,
she's a huge dabber.
So concentrates has been a big focus in our garden lately.
And that's like you said,
this is one of the things that you kind of breed for is hash production
terpenes.
Yeah.
So taking,
you know,
in a lot of those old cultivars,
they don't have a return.
Like some of the more modern ones do the resin populations just weren't as
bred in at that time.
You know?
They just weren't.
So it's nice to have some things that you're putting out there like this,
that are more modern,
get that hash production.
So we can really enjoy fucking around and learning hash.
Oh, absolutely.
And then I just love to see it.
There's so many other things now.
That's why I'm trying to get it.
I've been getting them,
but you know,
always looking for new hash companies.
Anybody that is doing really amazing work with salvamento,
with solventless extractions and or hydrocarbon extractions that solely
looking for those types of things.
Love to work with them.
I've worked with a few and am working with guys that are doing that.
And I think it's an amazing combo.
Oh, yes.
I've always enjoyed that the most.
Don't get me wrong.
I'm a flower person.
I've always smoked flower,
but I think a healthier way of consuming the cannabis is hash.
I think I believe it's super enjoyable.
The one good thing about modern cannabis is the testing and all the good things.
So there's a little bit more transparency on products that patients are able to receive.
So that to me is definitely a plus side on modern cannabis as well.
Everything ever changing in the markets.
It's making sure that everything's transparent.
And to be honest with you,
when you're dealing with patients,
you should be putting the utmost care into everything that we do,
because at the end of the day,
this is their medicine.
And if they're not capable of supplying their own medicine or they're in a state that maybe they can't yet,
these genetics and or ones like it in the right hands of their caregiver or someone else that can do it for them,
with that availability to that is just amazing.
And thus it should be.
We have a responsibility to these people.
I mean,
I feel like if you're going to put the time and effort into something that it should be an expression of you.
So I'm not just selling or telling people about what I make,
but I'm also telling them about me.
And that's just as it's an important part of it,
because that's why and what influenced what everyone is seeing now and starting to see and has been.
Yeah.
And just it opens up every day to more and more people.
And I'll go right back to it.
I'm ever so ever grateful and just humbled that I'm still able to keep doing what I'm doing.
And smiles on people's faces.
That's the biggest part to me and seeing people get relief because at the end of the day, when I started this, I did it for that.
I was a patient and someone that it was easier for me to be a patient and take the street element out of it and do these things for myself.
I like.
So let's get a couple quick fire questions.
And before we get going here,
I had one of my Patreon members, Q Ball, had a couple of questions for you.
He wanted to know, what have you produced?
Which one of your cultivars is the strongest on the nose?
Which one's going to pack that in your face?
What's the first one that comes to mind?
As far as your nose, anything with that, the the Z-Wiz male, everything with that Z-Wiz male.
And then the grapefruit.
Grapefruit is just that's what she is.
She sticks out.
Yep.
They just do.
It's just so prominent.
No matter what it touched, it wasn't going to.
You can't water it.
That's the reason why keeping all my expressions open so it doesn't get muddled or bottled back into just one thing.
That was my biggest fear.
I want to keep the turkeys alive and the terpenes alive because I can always improve on them.
For sure.
He also wanted to know how you went about your pollinations when you find a male that you want to work with.
Is it you're sticking it in a room with everything that you think it might pair up well with?
Or are you more taking the role of the bee and hand pollinating?
So no, to be honest with you, I like to open pollinate.
So I like to have the males in with the females.
And throughout the process, I will collect some pollen.
And the only reason that I'll go in and touch certain things is just for consistency throughout the plant.
For the most part, I let it do its own natural thing.
That's how it's supposed to be.
Good deal.
Do I help influence that a little bit?
I have.
I have gone in and say like if it's in the corner of the room, even though I rotate the plants,
if it's like in the middle of the plant and I feel like it might not get as much of the pollen as I need it to,
I'll go in and hit a couple of bracts just to ensure.
But the biggest thing is open pollination.
How do you limit yourself on how many males you would use in that room?
Obviously, you're taking females with different expressions that you want to put forward in that next generation.
But how do you know it's going to be two or three?
How do I get it down?
Like on one strain, how do I narrow it down to one?
Or how do I?
Is that what you're doing?
One male with multiple females?
I'm narrowing it down.
So each strain that I've picked the male from, the biggest things are stability, resilience, as far as stress.
It can handle all the stresses that I'm in.
And then on that positive note, if it passes those tests, it has something to bring to the table.
It's always going to make whatever female that I'm pairing with it better.
It's always to make it better.
That's cool.
Okay, so you're looking for something that's not going to pass on any unwanted straights,
but still keep the genetic lines open enough where there's enough possibilities from all over the board within that strain.
That makes sense.
That's awesome.
That's my biggest thing.
That's what I'm looking for in a male.
And then I choose to keep them.
On the grapefruits in the beginning, we used a couple of different males, and then we just kept the male.
And then due to unforeseen circumstances, wasn't able to keep it.
So then moving forward, going through a huge building project with the building,
I just didn't have the time to either keep, play.
Didn't have time or space to play games with doing that at that point.
So that was the reason for talking with Chris, to keep things moving forward while I could.
And also to him, I knew he would love them just because he's a pure sativa citrus, tropical fruit person
who remembers this grapefruit and enjoyed it just as much as all of us have.
Oh, hell yeah.
It's definitely a good icebreaker strain.
When I talk about the grapefruit, I can always tell some of the guys that have been growing a little bit longer
because they'll break out and be like, oh yeah, man, I remember the sweet pink.
We used to grow that outdoor.
Because it was a tried and true.
Yeah, for sure.
I feel like she was like one of those that fell between the cracks.
I would agree with that.
Like a bunch of other amazing cultivators as well.
Well, wasn't it, it was originally a skunk phenotype?
Cindy 99.
That's right.
Sweet tooth, Northern Lights.
Originally came out of British Columbia.
There was more in it than just the C99.
That is what it was, yeah, C99.
That's where that citrus came from.
Yep.
At least that's what's documented anyway, of what I understand.
Well, yeah, there's only so much that we can know if you weren't there.
Yeah, I mean, it's a little deeper than just that.
But just for a basic, that's kind of like the founding right there, the building blocks, so to say.
For sure.
So did you have any shows coming up?
I do.
Oh, God, we have the Bonfire coming up in April, which is down in Lebanon, Maine.
We also have a MMCM show coming in August in Augusta, Maine.
That'll be a two-day show.
And then we always have, every two weeks we do a show here with local people.
And just to get all these guys with a bunch of, you know, they get to meet a bunch of different caregivers and guys like myself as well.
So they get some of these genetics in their hands, whereas without those, they wouldn't be able to.
Now with the website open, it gives so much more availability and obviously social media as well.
That's cool that you're still taking time out for the locals, though.
Oh, that's the most important part.
I mean, if it wasn't for those guys, I wouldn't even have gotten those genetics in my hand, to be honest.
That's awesome.
Yeah, really.
I mean, that's always to those roots because that's where it all started.
That's what it is.
I mean, I was one of those patients before anything.
So we'll always keep it there.
Never forget.
Never, ever.
Upcoming sale?
Oh, yeah.
Next month?
Next month, I don't know, sometime between the beginning of the month and Valentine's Day, I'll be dropping a spring fling sale is what I'm calling it.
It's coming up soon.
And, yeah, it'll be really soon.
You know, trying to get some more of these packs into guys' hands with the upcoming season coming up and some new things maybe into your garden.
If you're a caregiver, trying to diversify yourself as far as being in dispensaries or your local shops and having something different so it's not all the same.
Keeping that market open and regular instead of just everyone always doing the same things.
I think that's the future and keeping things like this and from other people that I work with is a good way to start.
That other, like I said, that release, that three-pack release that I did of the sorbet, the savory sorbet, and then that strawberry grapefruit bananas, I'm going to do another drop of those, like 50 packs.
And I'm just going to run it till they're gone.
And depending on when I start it, it'll probably run till the end of February.
Good.
Because I'm going to need some more of those.
The following month, up until now, like July, I'm going to do a different seed sale every month coming up.
So that way if you did happen to miss out on the February sale, there'll be one up and coming.
So that way everybody gets a chance.
That's awesome, man.
Yeah, I just want to make sure that the availability is there and give people a shot.
Good.
I was definitely trying to give other people the opportunity to get some of those strawberry grapefruit banana for you and not hoard them.
I'm glad you're putting them back out there because I still want more.
The other one that really went, like the sorbet went, I think, once everybody sees it, the ones that went out, once everybody starts seeing those, but the savory sorbet, that acai berry gelato onto the Cushmans 11 times GMO.
Awesome.
You did send me some of those.
No brainer.
I never grew the Cushmans.
I've never even seen it, honestly.
So like I said, I smoke so much old shit and that's what I'm hunting through all the time.
It's pretty, you know, other than you and Professor P's gear, there's not a lot of modern stuff I grow.
What was so great about the Cushmans?
The vigor.
It was like, I like this particular gelato hybrid.
It doesn't have, it's not like, like the 41 is good, my personal opinion.
I really enjoyed the flavor of the 33.
I hate the veg time on it, but the bud structure, the effects from it are medicinal as well.
Also adds, I mean, obviously a beautiful color without influencing the flavor in a negative way.
And so my, obviously, again, trying to make it better, add less veg time to it.
The male had amazing color to it.
And then it was just like creamy, doughy, gassy, heavy resin populations amongst the calyxes.
Just really super dense.
So another reason why I wanted to use it, basically the same reason why I wanted to use the Z-Wiz,
but to have a different flavor and then add it to similar things and or different things as well.
I made F2s of those and then obviously a multitude of hybrids.
Everything she touches, as far as a gelato, like she actually has that same bud structure as the 33.
More denser buds though from the Cushmans, really harder, like definitely harder buds.
So you're going to get your weight and then like such a dense resin population now.
The thing I didn't like about the Gelato 33, unlike the 41, is that the 41 had better heads, more resin.
The 33 had resin, super nice high, but as far as extracts, it really wasn't a great yielder.
So I'm like, man, I'd really like to get this terpene profile, possibly maybe even draw some color out of it,
but I'd love to pack some more resin in this thing.
And that's what that male brings to the table.
Nice. That's good to hear. That's exciting, man.
Yeah, man, they're really nice. Everyone that's been going through those are just super excited.
Definitely happy about all the results they're getting.
And yeah, there'll be some more future work with those too.
So yeah, I look forward to that as well, just seeing what everybody's...
keep on hearing what everybody's saying about them, keep getting them out there so more people get them
and start really looking at bigger populations of them.
I'd love to hear all the unique things that come out of them.
Man, you know, just like your story with the Mountain Wizard.
That was so fun. That entire hunt.
There was so many expressions and none of them were bad.
It was just a pleasing hunt all around. Like you said, they were really, really resilient to everything.
Stable, beautiful, bag of peels off the wall, some more than others, but all of them were good.
Every flavor, every smell, every high was all good.
I did not have one complaint throughout that entire thing.
Thank you. I appreciate that, man. That's what I did it for.
Go in and hit a couple of brags just to ensure.
All right, before we get going here, we got to ask you some of the hard questions.
Oh boy. Our lead content creator, this one of his favorite questions for me to ask you guys,
GrowGreenDaddy over there on the podcast.
He always wants to know what... we try to get three.
If there's only one, there's one. It's a hard, hard question.
But at the end of everything, when you're gone, what do you want to represent your name?
Which strain are you like or which cultivar, which type are you working on where you're like,
I think I put my most, like most of my passion, most of my energy into this one.
This was my pride and joy. Easy. Just like that. Boom.
The other ones are amazing. Don't get me wrong. I love them all.
But the grapefruit, like hands down, hands down.
If you had to name a couple more that you thought were really close to that, is there any more?
Oof.
You're like, I think this represents Solo.
So, oh God. I do have an answer for that.
It's a hard question.
It's a super hard question. So I'd have to say that that Z-Wiz work is definitely, I'm proud of that work.
I really am because of the time it took to pair everything that I put in to pair with it,
with that intention, knowing that it would pair well.
I guess the other one I really like, that's a part one of that sub.
This is a sub part of that second part.
The one that I'm really second most proud of is just still not available to anyone.
Oh.
As things come forward in the future, you and a few other specific people will get those in their hands.
For so many reasons.
And first off is just the amount of passion, love and dedication that you put into it,
amongst a few other very select individuals, that I really want to get these into your hands.
Because I know at the end of the day, you guys are going to do the best work for yourselves and myself,
included for the common good for everyone else.
I just can't say what it is yet right now.
But it's definitely something that I'm super proud of.
Dude, I'm excited. I don't even know what the fuck it is.
It's not something you've told me before. You just dropped this on me during the podcast.
So maybe something to keep everybody looking forward to.
I know I am. I'm so looking forward to it.
Hell yeah. Are we working with the time frame here?
I would say that by 2024, there will be...
Oh shit.
Yeah, I'd say maybe the end of 2023 to 2024.
Just depending on how everything works out.
All within a three to six month of that, I would say.
That's the best guesstimate that I can give.
You know, that's a good thing though. That is a good thing.
If you're already excited about it now and you've got that much more time to work with it.
Because no one knows about it. Nobody.
And you got to keep it that way.
I got to have it.
I can't even fill up on one hand how many people know and or are involved.
So this right here is going to be another testament.
I'm hoping for fall, late winter, maybe early winter for F5 work.
We'll see. We'll just see how...
On the Great Fruit.
Yeah, on the Great Fruit F5s.
And I'm looking forward to those as well.
And I know I just want people to keep enjoying these F4s.
I don't think that the F4 is going to be like the F5s.
It's not that it's not going to be a better version.
It's just going to be...
I'm using a different expression from the original expression, the F2s.
And then going into another like, you know, I had the A, B, C and D.
I'm going into another one of those.
Because I...
It was just a few different reasons.
And I think it's really just going to end up...
Because the end goal for me is to...
I always want to keep that expression.
I'm not going to be selfish and say, all you get is sweet, pink, great fruit.
That's it.
I don't want anyone to ever get that.
I still want everyone to get and find those unique ones that make their garden stand out.
Really helps them out individually and every year.
And every year you do experience everything grapefruit has to offer.
Well, yeah, exactly.
Kind of like, kind of pick your own version of it that you like.
Because everybody's taste buds are just a little different.
And what I smell doesn't necessarily mean you do or taste.
Yeah, same plant, but everyone can get that taste.
You know, depending like, if you're a cigarette smoker, you're going to taste it different.
If you're this, you know, there's too many variables.
But I'm trying to definitely keep it where it's open.
It keeps everybody kind of like, wow, yeah, there's that.
Well, there it is.
But then, wow, what is this?
Holy, you know.
Awesome, dude.
I'm very stoked.
I'm very looking forward to that.
The biggest thing with the F5 project people can look forward to, which I think with the F4 is I kind of...
I mean, for the most part, everything that I'm seeing and hearing and everything that we've seen,
all the bud structures, just the good size flower sets and nothing too crazy.
But I think if anything, out of all of it is going to be getting some more of a maybe more uniform,
not so much of actual structure, but size, depending on the cross and or the...
Some could be more Fox Taylor than others and vice versa.
Good.
So we're starting to see a lot more uniformity in the population.
Yeah, I mean, a little bit more, but then also my biggest thing is to keep the terpene profile open.
But consistent.
Awesome, dude.
Well, I wanted to thank you for taking this time with us, Matty.
I appreciate you.
Thanks for sharing so much information about what you got going on and what you have in stock right now.
You guys can find Matty Solo Farms over at mainlymerchandise.com.
That's main as in M-A-I-N-E, correct?
Yeah, M-A-I-N-E-L-Y merchandise.com.
Get the Instagram at Solo Farms, Solo Farms Eco and or Solo Farms 2.0.
Awesome. And we got a big sale coming up soon, you said, at the beginning of February.
Thank you for taking this time with us, Matty.
I appreciate you and I look forward to those beans, whatever they are.
You got me excited. You have a good day.
Yeah, you too. Thank you.
What is up, everybody? Your boy, Doc Calyx here.
Before we get going from this episode, I wanted to ask you, were you aware that we have our very own private Discord server?
That's right. We have our very own private Discord server.
You can check it out entirely free at Discord.gg forward slash Calyx Crew Podcast.
You will be limited to the general chat and the reception area.
You can kind of talk to me. You can see what's going on with your grower.
You can just share some of your experiences and growing.
It's a great community, probably one of the best platforms that I've ever dealt with.
If I'm not coming across too cocky, we've got a great team of people in there.
If you want to unlock a little bit more, if you want a little bit more of the Calyx Crew Podcast experience,
you can check us out on Patreon at patreon.com forward slash doc underscore Calyx.
We have two different tiers in there. We have a $5 tier that unlocks all of the Discord.
We have a total of got like 161 channels in there.
Everything from growing, showing off your glass, showing off your joint, art, teas, brewing teas,
integrated pest management, pretty much anything you can think of.
We've got a team of specialists that are just fucking killing it and they're really helping me out.
Teaching guys how to do stuff that even I didn't know I'm learning shit in there every day.
So I want to give a quick shout out. Some of those guys that are helping me out.
ShigetyFlips, our very own SIP specialist. If you guys aren't familiar with SIP, it's a sub irrigate planter.
It's an awesome way to do organic growing in an organic and growing environment.
He's also on Instagram. You can check him out there. TK Geico, our Scrog specialist.
You can find him on Instagram as MonsterScroggin. Always killing the Scrog.
If you want to learn how to Scrog, that is the boy to go to. Go check him out.
TinkleTurp is our host. If you come into the Discord, he will see you right away.
GrowGreenDaddy, our lead content creator that helps us out with all of this.
You hear him on the mid rolls. My funny Australian bastard friend. I love him to death.
And then my other Australian friend, Harshie83, who's in there moderating our Discord.
Awesome dude. We also have a $10 tier if you guys want even more behind the scenes content.
We just had an awesome one with Duke on the story of Tommy2Dicks.
We also do Q&As with our podcast guests. We do game day giveaways.
The infamous do or dab that everybody's heard of. You get a chance to come in there, play games, win free prizes,
build a community, an awesome fucking community. It's worth checking out, at least completely for free.
Jump in there, see if you like it, and we'll go from there.
Love y'all. Appreciate y'all. Thank you for supporting the show, and I will catch you on the next one.
This is Doc Kallux saying goodnight and grow right.
