and it's fun, and it's also a fun way to get out of the house.
So I'll see you guys next time.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Okay.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Thank you!
Bye.
Bye.
beauties thing start?
I started Canna Queenie Combos back in,
I think it was March of this, of 2022.
And then the girls started just coming on
and we couldn't figure out a name because at the beginning
I was like, oh, Canna Mom Boss, or Cannabis Boss,
or whatever, but I can't be like that
cause not all the girls are moms.
So I'm like, okay, what are we going to do?
And baby, oh, Olga, I was on a live one day at an event
and she's like, you know what Mel, Cannabis Beauties.
And I think that was like June of this year.
And we put Cannabis Beauties together with the Cali trip
and it just kind of stuck.
And that's what we are.
That's why I keep saying it's men and women
because when you, I get the thought like Cannabis Beauty,
you think women, but again,
we've got to start including men in the business.
I empower women, but at the same time,
if I shut off my mind to not dealing with men
in some sort of capacity,
then you and I wouldn't be having this exchange right now.
And so I had to find a balance where I could still,
I could still include men,
but make the women feel like they had their voice.
And I'm still trying to figure that out,
but I think we're on the right track
because most of the men that come to our lives
are super respectful.
They've been in the cannabis industry.
They kind of know what we're about.
And I think we've already showed people that if,
you know, if any of the men come to our lives
and they're disrespectful or, you know,
they can't treat us the right way,
we kind of unite as a group and we stick up for one another
and we'll go to bat for one another
to make sure we're respectful.
You guys had your Cali meetup pretty recently
and everybody sounds like they had
a very amazing time at that.
I'm sure it's a Vegas situation.
We can't explain everything.
I don't need every detail here,
but what was some of the highlights of the trip?
My shrooms trip?
Yeah, definitely that.
That's what I like to hear.
I'm definitely a psilocybin advocate
just as much as cannabis.
I tell everybody I use cannabis for the physical.
I use psilocybin for the mental.
That was a definite highlight of the trip.
Me and Awal had a very deep conversation.
And I remember physically having a conversation
with Awal and like expressing my emotions.
And you know what?
It was the first time as a woman
I am actually speaking to Awal,
but change is happening.
It's okay, this wall is listening.
This wall fucking understands right now.
But that was Kelly Portman.
I didn't even smoke till I had something to change that.
Canicure got me through that shroom trip.
Canicure really, he got me through that shroom trip.
She really did.
Thank God you got somebody like Canicure.
Absolutely, I'll do it again with her.
I'll trip on shrooms again.
Was that your first time doing shrooms?
It was.
And it was, you know, okay, so the back of the box said,
three to five pieces, happy.
Six to 10 pieces, you're gonna feel like you have energy.
And then it said 10 and up, the walls are gonna melt.
Well, I ate 12.
Because I wasn't raised to be a quitter.
And I went balls to the wall and the walls melted.
The walls truly did melt.
Spider-Man was moving.
Spider-Man was dancing on that.
I swear to God.
You lost me at shrooms in a box.
Okay, so it's chocolate.
It was chocolate shrooms.
It was a shroom chocolate.
Okay, oh, so this was like a home grower that got you.
It's like, where the hell are you getting mushrooms
in a box?
Because I need to go down to California.
We're gonna go Costco on that shit.
What are you smoking on over there, Queenie?
From my personal pharmacist in the West Coast, OG Runts.
OG Runts, right on.
What about you, Kanika?
I am smoking the white runs.
Everybody's runtsing up their life, huh?
Damn, I'm the only one different over here.
I'm gonna have Katie out.
We need to expose you guys a little bit more than Runts.
Well, I will say I enjoy West Coast gas.
You're in the West Coast, right, Doc?
You're considered West Coast, right?
Yep, I'm up in Washington.
Was that the farthest you've ever traveled?
Yes, it was.
I see you all pulling out shit.
I can shut up for a sec.
We can hit something, I'm down.
Hit it, Doc.
I did not smoke today.
Hit it, Doc.
I will say, while you're warming up your banger there,
that Canicure played an essential role
in some of the changes that I made.
And a lot of it had to do with the fact that her and I,
we connect on a level of having,
being women with ADHD.
And I think that this trip was the first time
that I was in a position
where I was constantly being overstimulated.
I wasn't sleeping, you know,
strain after strain after strain after strain.
So I was kind of like up and down.
And I remember at one point, Canicure had a,
we had like a deep talk.
And a lot of it had to do with the fact
that I finally found someone at 44
who could understand my ADHD
and not make me feel bad about myself.
So out of the whole trip,
I probably took the conversation
that her and I had together in her car.
That was probably one of my favorite moments
out of the whole trip.
You know what I mean?
Because it was like,
I finally felt understood and accepted
for exactly who I am at such an older age too.
Cheers.
Look at that crowd.
Have you ever tried to hit a mute button
while you're coughing?
No, like you said in the discord,
that we die with each other here.
We don't mute when we dab and discord, right?
We just die together.
and discord right we just die together
gives me less to edit
the discord is like so i've been doing this fuck
i'll say it got on ig in like 14 or 15 somewhere in there
excuse me and back then uh it was me and my ex and we just sit on a couch we'd have my phone
right in front of us and we just smoke weed and talk to whoever popped in there wasn't a point
we were just getting high with random people and uh it eventually turned into like people that i
knew coming into lives with us and we just talk about shit that we had learned about cannabis
and uh people started watching it and realizing you know who i was what groups i ran with and
shit like that and it just kind of naturally evolved and it got to a point where i never felt
i never had enough confidence in myself to think that i could be a business owner i uh i grew up in
you know orchards and shit i was a farmer my entire fucking life so um for anybody that's
in that lifestyle it's kind of like this is the rest of your life farms get handed down
generation to generation that's what you're gonna do you know and that you're not ever gonna be
much more than a farmer so something happened along the way where i got seeds and i fell in
love with the plant and uh i disconnected with it for a few years and then got a bag seed and a bud
of like ghost rain haze and said you know what i'm gonna try to pop this one open
and i sure as enough cracked it and uh it was kind of like the old days just water it let it grow but
i didn't really understand too much about the plant so at that point i really wanted to understand how
some of these people on ig were like getting these you know great yields and shit like that so it
took my interest to learn as much as i could and i just i can't even put into words the amount of
passion that i have in myself for cannabis it's beyond anything else and everything led down
another wormhole from going to learn how to get better yields and training my plants into soil
what's going into the soil the science behind the soil what i can do to make it better um the
environment everything i could learn about cannabis i didn't i'm still learning every
single day but uh i guess at the end of the day i looked at it and i said hey this is still
agriculture and it was time to up my game i can do something with my life and that was a huge
change to me and having that much confidence when i see that and other people that have that
fucking passion and that fire like you uh mel when i saw you you had so much fire and passion in you
i just knew you need that little boost of confidence and a little guidance to get you to
where you want to go just like i did and i had a really good friend help me out as well so
it's nice having make friends with people that are going to make you a better you
if you're surrounding yourself with shit you're going to have shit if you surround yourself with
fucking leaders and positivity that's what you're going to have in your life surround yourself with
the kind of people that you relate to that you want to become like you know take inspiration
from those people and don't let people uh you know put you out at all it's easy we're humans
we're emotional creatures but uh there's always going to be somebody that doesn't like you you
know fuck them there's 10 people that do like you for everyone that hates you you know and that's
why they hate you so much this is my mantra be friends with someone that's not afraid to say
your name in a room full of opportunity you know what i'm saying like that's the type of people i
want to roll with when i go somewhere maybe okay so i do make candles on the side and you know i
don't even talk about it because it's not where my heart is right so i forget that i even do it
but if i go somewhere and they're like well i don't like candles but i like edibles well i got
somebody who knows edibles well i like somebody who does resin well then we'll throw them to
santuli santuli does resin well i need someone that does shirts well you know so we
we move like that sarah and i went to um thicket the thicket now headquarters out in chino and
before we left we were looked at each other and sarah was like i'm not leaving without something
for the girls and i was like i ain't either what are we gonna ask for like are we gonna ask for
nine tickets like are we gonna and sarah was like yeah let's ask for fucking nine tickets like let's
do shirts and i stood there and i was like
but you know what we did shirts too we walked out of there with ambassadorships
for each and every girl with their own code and like
why just give them we gave them an opportunity to now become ambassadors so they could go to
other companies and they could say no i've done this before i've already had my own code you know
and they feel empowered and that is what a can of boss beauty is my sister success is my success
we are not in competition the cannabis community has to stop being in competition there's room for
everyone we have a common ground so why are we trying to be in competition with one another
when we can help one another there's always someone for something for and so i'm still
trying to find myself in canna queenie but that's where it keeps leading me down that road and it's
helping other women get to where they gotta go and maybe coming up with an idea for another woman
that she didn't think of or but canicure for me is more than just edibles like canicure also does
rso and she does like you know rso greens and she does cbd and she just she heals my family too like
i trust her products with my son and my husband and so when i think of canicure i edibles comes
to mind but more her rso and her dragon juice and her infused lemonade and the way people can
medicate without smoking using her product you know i'm glad you brought that up yeah like she's
totally dope yeah like i thought that was a more recent venture uh you getting into the rso
how did that end up coming out um i started making rso around the time my dad died well i made it
before i died um kind of for somebody a patient who would actually buy all of it so i never got to
use any of it um and then when my the patient ended up dying he was a cancer patient so it was
you know then i started making it uh for myself or for my dad and then it was kind of too late on that
and also as well and now i kind of get to keep it for myself and my patients and it's for you guys
um i didn't really treat myself before with any of my my medications besides with herb um
there was a big change when i did start doing that now the inflammation has definitely
changed i know it's different a lot that i'm using it um i don't have a lot of that when i
when i use the rso i don't have inflammation i don't have pain it's very obvious it's very
clear um smoking and medicating with rso is completely different
i feel like smoking has almost no benefit but for mental benefit um that's pretty much it
definitely not as powerful for pain relief um because when you smoke it you're you're hitting
a lot of cb1 receptors when you eat it um or digest it like you do with rso and edibles
yeah hitting cb2 receptors and those are a lot better at uh at treating that pain
100% they're dealing different
absorption i don't know it's different so on a daily basis uh what would you say milligram wise
was like your treatment where are you like i'm okay i have very little pain
um i don't know i probably take like four grains a day i don't think that's a lot
and your recent your most recent edible you did uh the lemonade the sweet tea and there's one other
what were those
like milligram wise
oh they were 300 milligrams
300 milligram drinks i heard very good things about that from everybody yes
i definitely want to get into that sweet tea
who's your favorite the pink lemonade the pink lemonade hands down the pink lemonade is my
favorite what about you can't care
the pink lemonade hands down the pink lemonade is my favorite what about you can't care
the pink lemonade pink was that the consensus that you got and reviewed all those was like
everybody's saying pink lemonade or was there something that was a little more popular
i'm pretty sure it was i'm pretty sure it was the pink lemonade
i think you need a third judge and i think i need to be that person
okay i'll send you one because i saw that i saw that i'm all about that so what's the newest
venture for uh your podcast there mel let's shout that one out really quick oh thank you actually
i'm gonna start i've committed to start dropping my episodes every wednesdays at 4 20 pm eastern
standard time and i think i'm gonna start focusing on endometriosis uh fibromyalgia
and i think i'm gonna start doing like a dab review
because i'm really liking the dabs so i think that that's the next venture i think i'm not
going to do one-on-ones on the podcast i think i'm going to keep one-on-ones on my lives and
then i think on the podcast that's just going to be me speaking no camera and i'm gonna you know
do outlines and i'm gonna stick to a whole kind of script and so that's gonna change that's gonna
be different from my first four or five episodes um moving forward i'm gonna call it season two
i'm gonna call it season two and that's just gonna be more me doing my own cannabis education
my own mental health awareness my own chronic illness awareness journey um
and do like strain of the day like string reviews so i think that's where i'm gonna start you're
both awesome women and you're doing awesome things and i want more people to find out about you i
want you guys to be more successful and more happy uh with your lives you know thank you doc yeah
absolutely i'm gonna go grab that edible from canicare really quick um in the states like i've
been to dominican republic puerto rico you know but i've never been i've you know because i i
studied and i lived in puerto rico my husband's from dominican republic so but this was the first
time i went from like east coast to west coast like across the country per se i loved the cali
climate i loved the tacos i had tacos every single day i love the tacos
del taco um shout out to del taco um i enjoyed waking up every day and session with my cannabis
sisters i enjoyed being in an environment for the first time as a woman where i was encouraged to
eat where i was encouraged to snack where i could walk around with just a t-shirt and underwear
and everyone would scream mal get your pants on but no one judged me like you know i was able to
heal from trauma i was able to be away from my husband for the first time since i was 17 years
wow and be on an independent trip without my partner in crime like i had to grow i had to
depend on myself for every single moment and for someone who's been in a relationship more
more than she was alive without one that was an incredible journey for me
to go on and to feel those feelings without being able to turn to my husband and have him
encourage me so i learned a lot of self-validation and a lot of self-correction on this trip so
yeah and let me tell you ventura beach was beautiful uh pismo beach was beautiful
pismo beach was beautiful uh we went to ventura beach at night we had a bonfire
me canica we were waiting for rasta and you know i healed that night on the beach i have a lot of
trauma with the beach and you know i held my sister's hands and we went into the water at night
and you know i got all of that on you know there were moments that maybe the girls didn't even
realize were just monumental for me and they were the small things that no one would think
mattered but they mattered incredibly to me like my drive with canicure seeing where she grew up
seeing the school she went to you know meeting her grandmother meeting her brother you know
it was a privilege and it didn't it didn't escape me what a privilege it was to be accepted into
her home into august home into stoney the latina's home you know um i'm blessed to know
these women you know i didn't grow up with this type of community so to find it at an age where
i was already starting to feel lost was um life-saving like cannabis and caniquini saved me
and cannabis saved me you know cannabis saved my life and what i've i've encountered in instagram
good bad or indifferent has saved my life you know it's changed me for the better so
that's my reflection that's all and what what year did you start smoking what was your first
experience with well you know i'm from the south bronx so i grew up around weed you know i always
believe that weed and hip-hop is the bronx in new york like you know you can't talk about the south
bronx and not mention weed and hip-hop so i was probably like i want to say 15 the first time like
i used to have a blunt with like a bacon egg and cheese for breakfast you know but it wasn't
anything but to be out smoking with people and cutting class you know um in 2015 i was was when
my endometriosis started to flare and i became i had three months left to my master's and one
month left for my own department after working for 23 years to get it and bladder endometriosis took
all that and none of the pain medication i was on helped amitriptyline gabapentin lupron i did chemo
for it everything nothing worked and finally my friend's husband who was one of my patients
at the hospital he brought me a blunt he drove from greenwich connecticut to the to new york
city which is like almost an hour and he brought me a blunt and he was like yo sis hit this and i
was like no i can't do that you know you know if if i go back to work they'll drug test me and
he was like no hit this hit this and i remember just taking a pull and then by the third pull
my bladder just relaxed and pain that i have been fighting for three years like it relaxed and i
never turned back but now i do more than just smoke i dab i take rso i take cbd you know i
i i treat it i do it more than just recreational now i feel like it's
360 i treat myself in different ways i did not know that i didn't know that you went through
chemo for it that's yeah lupron is one of the lupron is one of the first medications they give
women with endometriosis because what it does is it causes medical menopause and the thought behind
endometriosis is a dominance in estrogen and i know you're a dad to three girls so it's it's
quite an opportunity to be able to educate you while they're still small because one in three
women have endometriosis so if you have three daughters the chances that one of them may have
endometriosis is more than 76 percent and so uh girls as young as nine begin with signs of
endometriosis and um we don't get we don't get much research uh we don't there's no treatment
plan so what they they do is they say well let me give you the lupron because if like if you don't
have a period in a year and then your pain goes away well we'll do a hysterectomy because that's
the only way we can take a woman's estrogen right well this is the problem i'm on the lupron there's
tons of fucking side effects from the lupron and i'm talking hair loss bone loss bone density loss
hot flashes uh chronic pain fibromyalgia depression suicide anxiety these are all the
side effects and i'm still in pain and i'm not menstruating and i'm still developing new
endometriomas and nobody can help and so endometriosis is what brought me to cannabis
and i'm making it one of the main parts of my platform because i keep meeting people like you
doc who have a daughter you know i have three daughters or you know a husband who's like you
know my wife is always in pain and i don't know why it's become almost a part of the vision and
the mission to make clear that cannabis is the only proper treatment other than surgery to help
with endometriosis pain it is the only medication that can help manage stage four endometriosis pain
period well no one can convince me and when you mix the flour with the rso there's even studies
that show that rso can help generate new tissue which is what women need new regenerative
endometrium lining tissue so there's there's research that rso can help with that and so if
i can bring that and i can just help one woman then my job is done that's how i'm going to bring
25 years of clinical experience and my journey with cannabis and endo to the table
that's fucking incredible and see this is that passion i was talking about as you got into that
and you told the story and you got deeper and deeper i could feel it bring you back in this
is something close to you that's fucking amazing thank you that chemo would not work for you but
three hits of cannabis and you almost get instantly saying something about the plant facts
it's a fact so you recently both of you recently joined uh my discord can and queenie you're a
member over there uh i can't care you came in recently what do you guys think of it so far
yeah i love it
i look forward to certain people dabbing with me when every day when i dab
we all know who that person is he's like my personal cheerleader it's not dark sorry it's
pink tink just takes a lot of that what it is it just makes me feel like i did a five gram dab
and it's like a tiny and he's like yeah queenie fuck yeah yeah oh yeah and meet the tiniest little
dad but no i love it i love i love the vibe and i love the environment that you created
at your discord doc that's just period that's a fact i love it i love it love it love it it's
it's a hard thing to do and i will tell you uh one of the greatest tips that i could give you
is don't be afraid to fail nothing that you ever do for the first time like this
are you gonna start off awesome or there's nothing to learn there's no reason to grow at all
you're gonna fuck up and i've had some big fuck-ups during this thing but all those
fuck-ups are doing if you sit there and you focus on them you're gonna drive yourself insane
but at the end of the day like you got to realize you're going to fuck up and you just got to deal
with it and move on you would not have made a decision if you did not think it was right at the
time so just make your decision and move on uh but stick true to your values because you know not
every person that you bring into your group are you going to be like yep you're right for this
that's the point of finding those people that you do vibe with is uh you just gotta you know
stick to your morals set your boundaries and the rest will do the work itself facts cheers
cheers cheers so we over at canna queenie we're always saying that our journey is like an elevator
and not everybody makes it to the top so on every floor people get on and off when you're
in the elevator right so thus far we've had people get on and off on and off
and right now me canna cure and uh you know a selective few that we're still kind of
binding together and making it work i feel like we're the ones that are just going to make it to
the top together so i'm ready to make it to the top mechanic for us going up going up like yeah
so i'm so sorry i did not want to sit for 10 minutes off the stream rummaging through my
fridge trying to find that uh lemon one so i promise you i'll eat the that one within the
next couple days but instead what i brought you guys is uh this amazing arch enemy of mine
the baby muffins
see the muffins are good though
she's laughing her ass off because i ate like one of them and i felt i i i said don't worry
about it i think she told me 150 milligrams and since there was three in there i assumed that they
were you know 50 milligrams a piece yeah that's right right there 50 milligrams a piece yeah
yeah that's why she's laughing at me
so i tell her i said don't worry about it i said i do uh over here i don't i make some cookies and
i make some brownies but i'm not i'm an awesome cook and i make some really really cool cannabis
infused dinners but i don't fuck around with edibles too much as far as like treats and snacks
and stuff like that i'll do like an infused salad or infused pasta infused barbecue sauce we make
infused salsa um but it's just like keeping cannabis covered and it's making regular recipes
with infused ingredients you know so it's it's not too much different to me but i'm not that
creative where i'm gonna go out of my way to make a nerds rope and shit that's what's incredible
and cake pops cake pops kind of okay there's two treats on this is the high
section of the podcast there's two treats that piss me off sugar cookies
i kind of hate sugar cookies and i hate cake pops
you know not the flavor can't care i cannot wait to have it but i'll tell you why because when i
think of cake pops i instantly think of uh and they have those fucking cake pops on a stick
and they want what like five six bucks for them it's like one bite of cake just buy me a piece of
cake like i'll eat the fucking cake and i don't want a bite i never thought about it
i've never bought one before have you actually bought one?
no i will not pay that much for one bite of fucking cake
if it's infused sure because that one's gonna fuck me up you know for a while
worth it yeah i mean that's where i got the lime coconut bar idea um that i make for what the one
edible that i have i actually got it from because i went there i go there every day before work
and i never eat i mean any desserts obviously but i did see that on the menu one day
and i ordered it because obviously that's an awesome idea and then i got the ingredients
and i made it that day on my way home from work it was so awesome it's so awesome and it's the
best the best thing on my menu now on that one so starbucks
wait a minute which muffins are those which muffins do you have uh these are the banana
nut those are so good oh my god they're so good you have to try the bacon maple
oh i saw that one it's like bacon maple and then there's like what like is that a cream cheese or
like a vanilla frosting inside oh my god yeah it's a maple cream it's a maple cream
it's so good
that coffee sets it off man the coffee sets it off
you're giving me the munchies
i got the munchies
i got the munchies
screw you both i just did a 12 hour shift came in to do a podcast with y'all i still not have not
ate not have ate you have not ate yet i not have ate not have ate not have ate nothing
let's teach poor grammar while we're on here because we're high as fuck
so i'm going to i'm gonna bite into one of these muffins really quick um what other flavors did
you make canicare fucking lime and coconut that sounds i would be all over that shit
definitely the lime coconut bar
my favorite kind of send you that and a bacon maple oh
yeah every time you say it i taste it every time you say it i can taste it
you know they're not green at all you can smell the weed i mean they wouldn't be green
oh look at the way he's no like when people start with like a really like
do you do you ever do butter infuse much butter
for me yeah i make butter that's how i i make everything i have to make better all the time
so right so when you make butter so when you make butter
you clarify it at all
yes no it's not a trick you got to think there's people watching the stream that have never made
medieval in their life don't know what to infuse true true i feel like it was a trick question
no i realize you're talking to me but you can completely relax
is
and i'm like butter is literally on her menu
calm down canicare we're about to get into the section where we have to speak spanish
oh shit was ready
wow i'm just gonna sit here don't taste any weed at all it tastes like damn good banana nut bread
did you sprinkle sugar on the top no do you like my nuts i love your nuts in my mouth they're
amazing that's what she said you want oh no that that one's getting left in that one's getting
left no shame i'm completely confident in my sexuality yeah the work in a factory is my day
job around men for 12 hours literally half my life if you think i'm scared of a nut in my mouth joke
not at all i'm enjoying this right now loving my nuts in your mouth knowing
that they were in my hand and they're in your mouth at this very moment
oh good oh yeah i mean you could go as far as to say there were other people involved
between them being in your hands and going into my mouth not just one but a lot of people
i didn't even have paper
now i'm trying to think about how many people have touched
candy
dude your your nuts have been all around the world at this point just dropping in your mouth
making people happy i've had i too have had candy cures nuts in my mouth you got some really sweet
fruity nuts and that's saying a lot everyone likes most of them have an off taste everyone
loves a moist nutty muffin everyone loves a moist and nutty muffin i mean y'all like my net
who doesn't like a moist muffin
i do i hate that word most people do doc
most people do
it just sounds so vulgar
moist is sounds vulgar but not your nuts in my mouth your nuts in my mouth isn't vulgar
that's comedy really there's nothing comedy about moist to me i'm not laughing if you say moist and
now i'm saying i'm driving myself insane over here and then when you put the muffin part in
there it just got worse i don't know i guess when it comes to okay i will change my wording
i too enjoy a non-dry muffin i love a non-dry muffin who doesn't
this train is going off the tracks right now i apologize
i enjoy my own podcast most because i give no fucks let's throw it all in there
sorry this best i've done a few interviews best one yet is this one i swear to god it's the
funniest and most real it's easy it's easy it's easy um there's a good another good tip for you uh
your number one best quality that you could have as a podcaster going into you said you
weren't going to do the one-on-one interviews anymore it's extremely important for that
but even if you do group interviews or you know smoke sessions and stuff like that
make sure your your co-hosts are comfortable okay well the more the more you're over in discord
the more you'll see it because that's like doc and filtered over there
i get that vibe over there that's why i feel free to be me over there too
good that's the point behind it so yeah there are no pussies in discord i don't think i don't get
that vibe no there are no that's not that vibe you know you can't i i really i okay
shut up mel go ahead doc you can no i was about to eat the last bit of this
the best thing that you could give me is feedback about what i've created
i feel like to be in discord you can't be a bitch
you can't be a bitch because we do a lot of everything is texting everything is
a lot of it is texting and i in discord it taught me how to not read a text with emotion
because i and a lot of no matter i don't even know sometimes if it's a man or a woman
because i don't know what their handle or their avatar is so discord has really taught me to not
read something with emotion to just read the words for what they are you know because it could be
um i don't know it could be any of them and they're just writing while they're driving or i
don't know but i learned how to not be such a bitch in discord it is what it is there's no
there's like there's no crying in baseball there's no bitch assness in discord
that's just me that's my thought you look like i'm gonna take a screenshot of that
during that part of the podcast because you when you said you can't be a bitch you literally
got that like hard look like you're like
discord i i agree and that's what i love about your discord that it's just that type of vibe
there's no everyone's taking shots everyone's light-hearted everyone is and i feel like i'm
home there i feel like i'm just amongst a bunch of cousins everybody's taking shots you know that's
me yeah and there's there's a lot more to experience about it like you were saying not
reading info or not reading emotions into what people are writing in there um yeah i try to stick
to i i do so much anymore it's hard for me to stick to one single thing talking to one person
for too long messaging everything throughout my day i'd rather send you a you know a voice chat
or something because i'm fucking i can't write to that many people a day it ain't gonna happen
um but i try to make the focus on it where there is cannabis information we can share different
things talk about things and text fine but i really really have been trying to focus on the
video and that's why we have like the voice smoke room sessions and stuff where you can turn on your
camera you can turn on your audio you can get to know that person you can connect with different
growers all around the world canicare you can go the bottom of the server um find the u.s connections
click on that it'll show you every state in the u.s you can find california click on that one
everybody in that thread is growers from california thanks ken it's it's an awesome feature and then
obviously our live shows uh you are going to be on do or dab coming up i'm so proud of you
you know thank you i'm stoked for that one thank you now i must secure the dab for said competition
which i will because it's the end of november do you know who my opponent is
do i i do not run the do or dabs anymore i i host the do or dabs but i do not uh
that's panda that gets all the members together shout out to hostile panda shout out to panda
he was dank panda and then he became hostile panda i'm hoping he puts me up against the
amateur like myself because i'm uh i'm afraid i'm not gonna be at a pro level yet so
i need i need an amateur dabber like myself i'm hoping uh if not there's gonna be a lot of dabbing
and a lot less do do you want to go against another female or do you want to go against the male
now go same dab experience either way any i'll go up against anybody i ain't a punk
that's my girl i'm so proud of you let's do it let's do it i'm just practicing
no bitch ass mr dabbing
don't be a bitch actually that's what we do actually ask canicure that's what we say
and when we were in cali and we would choke on the dab we'll be like don't be a bitch
don't be a bitch you better swallow that shit you better not throw up
yo we were trying to see like who could take the big
crazy it's like a sorority frat house this is funny it was that's awesome
is that the highest that you've ever been absolutely i mean i normally i've never dabbed
so much in my life so now when i find myself without dabs i can feel the difference with
just flour and i'm not happy i want to be a you see me with my flat iron doc
i'm trying to make homemade dabs i don't even know what the hell i'm doing
nobody wants to be an overnight success i actually talked to another podcaster one time
that had a reel that went super viral and everything and she said that's the worst thing
that's ever happened to me i said well why because then you have one video that's getting you know a
million views and you're getting no interaction at all why because these people like that video
they didn't like you you know and there's going to be a couple that stop by but as far as the
algorithms concerned you fell off the face of the earth it's like being a one-hit wonder back in the
90s i i agree that slow is the best place to get to where you want to go look i think i believe
low and slow is the best way to do damn near anything
because food grow a server grow a following you know try to get live rosin out of flour with a
flat iron okay so that brings up point number two about the flat iron and me
because my perception was a little bit different you said you were in the elevator
i've always pictured one road it's the beginning of your life this is the end of your life
everybody's on that same fucking road some people walk faster than others some people walk a little
bit slower we're on different paths but we're all on the same fucking journey so it doesn't matter
if uh you're 80 years old and i'm 20 years old i might know something that you don't and you
probably know a lot more than i do you know it doesn't matter age is just a number but we all
go down these different paths of life at a different rate so don't there's no reason to
compete with anybody i agree and i think some of the best changes i've made thus far have been from
the women in my group that are not mothers and are probably 20 years younger than me
um i think i've had tough conversations with my kids because in my cannibalist beauties i got
young mothers like uh bella and then i have someone young like stoney who's not a mom and i
get both perspectives and because we love each other like unconditionally like that i'm open to
all of their advice they're open to all my advice and together we grow that's just how i think about
it you know so i don't care if you're 20 or you're 60 i'm gonna learn something from a conversation
because we are not at that same age we we're not experiencing things at the same time we're like
we are like the plants you were explaining like taking one and taking another and putting them
in two separate environments and even if they're the same string they're going to grow different
so and i got a whole bunch of streams cannibal's beauty is a hybrid and so i'm taking the best
out of each plant that's in front of me and i'm creating something amazing i'm creating a happy
miracle or what do you call those happy accidents or no they're not accidents they're happy miracles
they're happy manifestations oh you can keep the happy accidents i'm cool with that i'm i'm a huge
bob ross fan and we do not make mistakes we only make happy little accidents so i think some of the
yeah i grew up in an environment where if you weren't a mom you could never give advice to a
mom you know you would hear something like oh if you don't got a kid you don't you'll never
understand and that's that's a false statement you know some of the best advice you can get
as a mom comes from someone who isn't a mom because they they're not jaded they haven't
lost sleep they haven't sacrificed for their they haven't gone through that they're not jaded
it's the most innocent like sometimes stony you'll say oh why don't you ask marcos like this and
i'm like i didn't even think about that because she's not dealing with those stresses
she's easy to just sit back and give almost the most innocent point of view so who am i to tell
someone they don't have a right to give me advice what if that advice is the most best life-changing
i could get you got to stay open the same way you open up your mind to different strains when you go
to a dispensary and you're willing to just to you're willing to experiment i feel like you got
to do that with people you just got to be willing to experiment with different people and see where
it takes you what's pushed you what's driven your confidence and helped you out more than anything
else um i don't need anybody to approve or validate who i am that's up to me and
once i stopped waiting for people to like me and i started to like myself
i i realized that i have been in my own way the whole time so i'm not looking now for anyone to
tell me what they want to see from me i'm gonna give them what they got
i'm gonna give you what i got and if you stay safe you don't you don't
i'm good i've learned to be good i'm good i'm good what about you can you care
it's okay honestly like i just don't listen to anybody else
else bullshit and i just listen to my own my own self my own gut and my you know
because all the other noise is what it is noise and i know what i i like i guess i need and i
and i just block everything else out and it works not the best advice
yeah you focus on those stressors if you're going to become stressed
it's not helping you out if there's nothing you can do to change something
there's no reason to waste your time stressing out about it because you can do nothing about it
right and if something people are going to not like you people are not going to like some of the
decisions that you make but as long as you're cool with what you did you need to stick to that shit
don't give a fuck what anybody else thinks because it's not about them it's about you
exactly you're not there to bring have them criticize what you're doing to
change it or warp it into something that you did not intend
always block the noise that would be the best piece of advice i would give someone um
don't share every idea with everyone some ideas just need to keep to yourself and hold sacred
because not everybody is supposed to understand your journey and so sometimes the opinion of
opinion of others could really block the blessings that are right in front of you
so sometimes the the ideas that you have as as enthusiastic as you are you have to be able to
bring that in for a minute and take time to focus on it before you share it with the world
not everybody deserves a seat at your table they really have to earn it you know don't give that
away so freely that's my biggest advice don't give away your talent so freely and even your respect
that's a damn good piece of advice thank you for uh saying that i actually could use that see you're
helping me out just as much as i help you out and that's something i love about both of you
both of sorry i'm gonna say both of you guys
i call my daughters dude it's okay i'm okay with it i'm okay with it personally i'm all right with
it so that's something i love about both y'all is uh you're very very strong independent women
but you are also very inclusive like you were saying uh when i first met both of you you guys
were doing lives that you do regularly with all of your cannabis beauties and it's always a
different you know arrangement of y'all but you all have you all bring something to the table
that's a little bit different but you're all there for the same reason and that's what attracted me
to you guys's lives so much right from the get-go because there's a lot of passion there's a lot of
fucking mainly sisterhood i'm gonna say yes there's some men in there but there's a lot of
sisterhood beyond all of y'all and even the men that you hang out with you're very very close with
um but you guys especially with how close you are when you start going off on stuff like we just did
with the fucking nut muffins that's when i just go crazy is because it's like you guys did such a
good job at talking about cannabis being serious going in depth about different things that have
helped you but then you just go off the rails and that's exactly how i like my podcast as well so
you guys all did an awesome job your story is extremely moving mel you know already know how
i feel about you and your story um you are one of the strongest women that i've ever met
um so i i just got mass respect for both of you um before we get going here through all your years
of cannabis what's been your favorite thing you've ever smoked i'll let sarah go first
um i just want to say i remember smoking something like skywalker og way back
it was like oh yeah
um the ogness obviously but it was definitely definitely a head head high but like also a body
high i know
santouli's blueberry hands hands down santouli's blueberry i smoked it at her house back it was a
day before my birthday i'll never forget it was friday may 13th and i sat there in her on her
sofa and i took that first pull from a white owl and instantaneously i was like oh my god
white owl and instantaneously my head got fuzzy my body pain relaxed and it was like
everything was okay with the world and she sent me home with a little gift of it and i cried when
that string um was gone but long and behold she gave me a clone and i'm growing it in my own backyard
now that blueberry has my heart and it's from yes i love a good blueberry and that's exciting
santouli just came into the discord not long ago too and i've seen a couple of her growth she's
doing very very well she's very dope her and sarah amazing so is there any buddy you guys want to
shout out before we get going here little stoney girl my little sister stoney she found some love
and um and and and i just want to give her a shout out i love her i took her to find love
and i'm really happy um i want to shout out i want to shout out all my canada boss beauties
i want to shout out my husband and my three boys and my dogs for putting up with my crazy self
and shout out to you doc and canicure y'all dope i we're all such a dope vibe and i love y'all
i truly do i love y'all absolutely thank you both uh for taking the time out of your days to come
do this with me this was an awesome episode i had a lot of fun with both of you all uh this
edibles should be kicking in very very soon so i might even do an ig live later we'll see
but this will be edited very soon and it'll be available to all you on youtube probably within
the next couple weeks so look forward if you missed any part of this live you can go back
in a couple weeks and you'll see it fully edited with all the fun effects and transitions and crazy
shit that we do uh before we get going i want to give a quick shout out to the cannabis beauties
obviously you can go find canicure inspired over on ig at canicured underscore inspired you can
find caniquini at canada queenie to ease to ease uh both of them are very very awesome i want to
give a shout out to all my patreon members as well uh you are the life behind this and i could
not do it without you you all are fucking awesome and you've gone above and beyond to help me build
this into what it is now so i got much much love for all of my members uh canicweenie being one of
them over there obviously pink tank kw i couldn't even go on forever there's so many of you uh
roger for being with me for so fucking long all of you you know how much i love you and i will be
catching you in the voice chat very soon if you guys want to join the discord and you have not
been in there yet you can go check it over at discord.gg forward slash calyx crew podcast you
can also find me on ig at doc underscore calyx and you can find the podcast over at calyx underscore
crew underscore podcast let's end this right now it was an awesome uh podcast i enjoyed hanging out
with both these very very inspiring women uh this is doc calyx saying grow smarter not harder
