♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
♪♪♪
I didn't realize that I had talked to you back a couple years ago.
I was pretty sure I just met you right through AK.
Oh yeah, it was like, I remember, because it was right as, like, when I found out, like,
so I took a long break, like, a few years, and just, I don't know, I got into Instagram for a minute.
I used to do, like, tons of art, and, like, I do cooking and all this other shit, so it was like this thing,
and then one day, like, a weed plant popped up, and I was like, whoa, like, Instagram does weed?
And started looking at it.
It's the weed.
Yeah, and I just found a couple different fucking pages, and somehow I came across you,
and you were doing, like, a live stream, and I was like, what the fuck is that?
And go and look at it, and you're just talking, and I'm like, I remember you, like, asking, like,
if anybody had any questions, and I just remember asking some fucking dumbass, like, new internet weed guy question,
and just being like, what's this cookies about?
And then just like, and then, uh.
Oh man, is that what we were smoking?
No, like, I just, because, like, I wasn't really seeing cookies around.
I heard, like, Thin Mint at the time and shit like that, and that's not even, like, that long ago.
I had no idea, like, prior to being on, like, weed Instagram or whatever like that, I had no idea what cookies was doing.
I'm trying to think of what we had about that time.
I'm thinking 2020.
It was probably that white Tahoe cookies, if any.
Yeah.
I would suck.
I thought it was like, oh, here's some Thin Mint.
Like, cool.
Like, that's all we were hearing around here.
Also, like, yeah, I don't know.
If you isolate yourself, you don't hear about fucking anything.
And that's like two years ago.
And it's like, finally I get on Instagram, like, oh, Jesus Christ, there's so many.
This has been around since when?
That's badass.
You've been following me since the old live shows.
Oh, yeah, man.
Were we back on the couch and shit?
Were we smoking on the couch back then?
You were just ribbon bongs on a couch.
Yeah.
That's fucking awesome, dude.
Those are the best live shows.
I just remember watching that.
I was like, this is fucking cool.
And then just the ability to just go and type and you responded right away.
Yeah.
Whoa.
That's why we love doing it, man.
Just connecting with the community, you know, how it should have been.
And that's why we create the Discord.
We've got the voice chat now, the video chat.
You can go do all that.
Connect with people all over the world.
Fucking amazing.
Yeah, it's exciting.
We've got a question from a Patreon member here.
The Green Witch says, what was your favorite smoke you ever smoked?
Okay, this has haunted me for years.
It's this thing from 2009.
And I have been hunting information on it ever since.
And I've been in about the same spot.
It's called Gunk with an exclamation point on the bag when I got it.
G-U-N-K, exclamation point.
Gunk.
Yeah.
It fucking alluded.
It was always with another strain called Pine Tar Kush, Tom Hill.
And it was fucking this just neon green, just nasty fucking like,
just neon green, white covered in resin, fucking piney,
just with that goo funk and just this nasty undertone.
And I got it like twice.
And ever since, everybody I asked, they're like, I remember it.
And it's like, great.
What do you know about it?
Not a single person has had the same fucking story.
It's been up the fucking straightaway answer is like, oh, G-13 skunk.
No, definitely not that.
We were getting tons of goo back then.
I get the name play though there.
Yeah, like Jesus Christ.
Like, just try a little harder.
Just grabbing shit here.
Yeah.
So at the time, it was like over the course of the years,
I found out that around that same time, fucking Bodie,
around 2007, 2009 or something like that,
did his deep chunk pollination of all these different things.
And he made a line called Gunk with an exclamation point specifically.
And it was an Afgoo deep chunk.
The people around that I've heard have grown it,
say that it was a G-13 deep chunk.
So.
It's just fucking, I don't know, man.
My favorite smoke of all time, Gunk.
Straight up.
Well, nothing will change that.
I don't think I've ever heard of that one before.
Everybody in the chat, if anybody knows anything about Gunk,
throw it up and we will tell Boogie Junk what you guys have heard.
Please.
I've been hunting it for years.
And I don't think it's even that particularly,
like probably people now would be like, that's whatever.
But Jesus, this piney little fucking motherfucker.
Crushed.
What is one of your preferable terpenes?
Is that pine pretty popular with Boogie?
Yeah. Pining's rip.
Outside of that.
Little has been a big thing that I've been going for.
Like these like crazy potpourri, lavendery.
I just love that profile and it's not easy.
It doesn't dry right.
It doesn't transfer all the time.
Like it'll smell beautiful.
Then the taste just is fucking nothing.
Did I hear you say you've never grown any Dynasty gear?
I've never grown any Dynasty gear.
We got to get you some Dynasty gear.
I mean, Professor really works heavy with that lavender line.
And it shows through in the huckleberry work and it sticks around.
Yeah. I literally knew nothing about any of these dudes until two years ago.
So it's a lot of work.
We're going to change that, buddy.
Yeah. It's fun.
So yeah, it seems like that guy's got a lot of cool things going on with the grapefruits and all that stuff.
Guys, if you have questions, go ahead under the chat.
There's a little Q&A thing.
You can throw it down there and then I can bring up the questions because I cannot read through the entire chat the entire time.
But I appreciate you guys throwing it up there, too.
So since we talked about terpenes a little bit in the ones that you do like, we're going to talk a little bit about land races.
Now, I really want to get in the land race.
Talk to you.
Yes.
And we're going to get into that one because I need to get into the land race.
Because I need to know a little bit more because you were very you were open ended.
It's this terpene and it's offending the shit out of me and I got to know why.
So as far as your preservation work, you're really into land races.
You said you're into sours. You're into hazes.
I know you did that Sangolese, that one with the heavy carotenoids in it.
That was beautiful plant, by the way.
Oh, thank you.
I saw you did the Lusoto, the Corolla Gold, the Ghana.
Tell me more about that.
I know nothing about the Ghana at all.
So I actually haven't run the Ghana.
I have some of them right now, but the Ghana are coming up on the repopulation list.
But as far as like a lot of the African, the African varieties.
That's pretty awesome. He's got the map right there.
Yeah. Ghana is right here, by the way.
Right in that nice cave.
Let's bring it up.
Right there.
Also, this map is from like 1972.
So there are a ton of countries that don't even exist anymore.
But yeah, the African stuff has been really fun to go through.
I had the fortune right around getting online.
Not online, but like Instagram type thing where I just met this really great preservationist.
And we had kind of been doing similar things.
And I just reached out to him and we were just talking.
And I was like, hey, man, like do you garden?
He's like, yeah.
I was like, all right.
Like, do you want some vegetable seeds?
So I sent him a bunch of vegetable seeds.
And at the time I was doing like Asian heirloom chili variety, like preservation run of like all these different like southern Chinese peppers and all that kind of shit.
Just because we don't really have too many of them here.
So I'm trying to get them out everywhere.
But I went and sent him all these different like from origin pepper seeds that I had repopulated over the course of a couple of seasons.
And he was like, yo, like I think I threw in like a pack of like some random cross.
I mean, I don't remember.
There were a couple of packs I threw in there.
But he's like, yo, like do you do this kind of stuff with me?
And I was like, oh, yeah, like for sure, man.
I love that shit.
And he's like, cool.
Like let me hook you up.
And he just fucking.
I like every fucking continent you could imagine.
He just sent me all these fucking like, you know, 30, at least 30 of each variety from anywhere in South America, all over the coast of Africa, like fucking Asian places like over in the Middle East and shit.
Northern like Iran, like crazy amounts of like land race stuff.
And I just remember like going and fucking starting to talk to him and we just hit it off.
And he's like, hey, man, like I'm getting ready to go and do this thing.
And like at the time, we're just like, dude, I was messing with this guy.
We're just we just knocked it off as friends right away.
And just like, oh, you like this?
Why are you like this?
Okay, cool.
Like it was fucking great.
And.
Fucking he's like, I'm getting ready to go and make a big move like out of the country, actually, and continue this type of search on my own, like rather than just going through all these different people that live in these areas like I want to go.
So he ended up going and taking off over to Africa.
And he sent me.
A lot of his fucking library as far as like land race seed stock.
He took a ton with him out there to go and do rape repopulations and his own expansions on the lines and stuff like that, which.
Fuck yeah.
And yeah, I'm just going to do some of the same here, if anything, for myself and just to go and experience these things that.
Some of the highs that I just haven't been able to go and experience, and I don't think many others like I don't know what the fuck a Peruvian weed is like.
Exactly.
About to find out.
That's the most exciting part for me and why I like doing land races so much in a in a world where we bald next so much stuff.
And even if it's not the same thing, a lot of things are very, very similar.
Like they're not all lemon is lemon, but a lemon is a lemon.
This is a lemon.
This, you know, lemon haze is a lemon skunk is a you know, they're very similar.
And finding different effects and different flavor profiles, especially that have like that no ceiling or you can pick your CBD cultivar out of it or, you know, you can go so many different directions with land races.
It's constantly exciting for me.
You know, it keeps you on your toes to as a grower.
Oh, dude, it keeps you on your toes to the entire fucking time.
Like, they do.
I've got a D man.
I can't slow down.
I need that shit.
It makes no sense.
Like, they'll do things you've never seen before.
It's like they'll just shoot.
It's like it'll be like a regular plant.
And then it's like, I'm a vine now.
And then it just calls it quits on like having stability.
They'll go like these crazy, wispy little fucking branches all over the place.
They'll throw fucking like exterior roots that go and fucking tap down in the dirt.
They fucking go and grow like almost like like these leaf surface thorn sections that go and fucking like it's weird, man.
It's always around the patio, but they'll throw these little like horns on them.
There's so many different fucking things about weed that we have no fucking clue about that are just hiding all over the fucking world.
It's like as soon as like the Internet took off, like as far as like weed things and people start posting their own experiences for fucking Jamaica or like some dudes over in the Middle East and shit.
And you see him like what's going on.
It's just like your eyes just start opening and opening.
And then once you start actually like putting your hands in the dirt with these plants from these places, it's just like, oh, this is nothing what I expected.
They'll go and surprise you every fucking time with the exception of Africans and turpentine for some fucking reason.
But yeah.
Yeah, we OK.
So we got to talk about that.
You know, lean in the Congo because and the reason I ask is because I've got a friend over in Lesotho and he sent me a bunch of crosses.
He was working with the Congo.
He made a few hybrids with it.
He even sent me in isolation.
He did of the broad leaf phenotype that he found in it and a narrowly phenotype.
So he kind of separated those out.
I'd love to get you over some, too.
But I don't know if you'd enjoy them because you said everything that you were fine that had the Congo cross and it was heavy terpenoly.
And yeah, so it's not any smack on terpenoly.
There's tons of people that love it.
It does great things.
It's a great precursor and shit, but it's just like I'm interested in here is it can express itself in so many different ways depending on what that cannabinoid profile is.
So when you say terpenoly, which one are you pulling out of that?
Is it like that?
So there is this base undertone that just goes in like hovers throughout all of them for me.
Like I could just pick it out.
It's just there and that's all I can taste.
And it's definitely probably just my own mental perception of the thing is just like I had to find something I didn't like, you know, and for whatever reason it ended up being that.
Her profile.
I'm just not a huge fan of it.
Like and don't get me wrong.
The Congo.
It was Congo.
Kendo, a chem and bag appeal.
Fucking beautiful.
Like incredible.
Great resin coverage.
The inside of it does this like it seemed to be pretty common throughout like a bunch of the Congo's is like close to the actual stem.
It'll have like a much tackier like resin content.
It's like it'll have like this great surface coverage of trichromes and you know, like they go through the leaves and all that shit.
But like for some reason, like right at the actual like stem base, you would break it.
It just like it would just fucking tack.
It would probably be awesome and fucking extraction and all that kind of shit.
But not for me.
The Lysotho though that you said like Lysotho is fucking wicked.
That shit is some good stuff.
I've grown quite a few Africans, but I have not touched that Lysotho yet.
What do you like about that one?
Dude, it was a profile.
I've never come across just straight like shitty Chinese restaurant fried rice.
It was just shit.
Nice.
Yeah, it was weird, man.
Like there's like this sesame oil like so I cook like a lot.
I used to be restaurants and all that shit.
And then it's just like we translate so easily with the smell and the taste and stuff like that.
So it's like a lot of the shit that I talk about is just going to be mostly like culinary like base.
So it's like that's just my best association.
So fried rice, man.
Straight out the park.
I love it.
And that's probably a flavor profile most people know too.
Oh yeah.
It was like.
It didn't.
It was as far as like flavor, like it had like some herbaceous notes, some almost like eucalyptus thing,
which was kind of not expected, but like more so like a peanut butter thing.
Like if you were to go and make like a like a sesame paste, kind of, but like really light on that.
Everything else was like kind of like a like I find I keep finding like a lots of like these eucalyptus like minty,
like I just refer to them as teal profiles.
So it's just like.
Yeah.
And with that and the peanut butter thing, the taste was cool.
Still really subtle.
It wasn't like a turp bomb, but like the smell you crack it and it's like you just brought in a bag of fucking fried rice.
It's great.
That's pretty cool, man.
I like that.
So you said you're going to kind of venture away from some of that stuff and you're going to start doing more aphes and pachys.
Yeah, that's the whole hopes.
I'm going to.
I've always really liked the Indica's, the land races.
That's kind of like.
So out of the Peru seeds I have, I have these Peru cross with Mazar-i-Sharif.
And those ones seem really interesting to me.
I'm going to probably end up doing, I think I got like.
Around 20 of them, so I'll do an open pollination of them and then just do a segregation of that population.
Keep a couple of cuts and then just try to see what can come out of like that kind of hybrid.
Once again, I know nothing about Peruvian stuff, but like I know Casey Brains was finding like a ton of really awesome shit down in South America.
Like in the 90s and all that kind of stuff.
So that with White Widow being partial Brazilian, like there is a lot of cool shit hiding in South America that I know nothing about.
Yeah, I'm glad you pointed out Casey Brains the other day because fuck, I hadn't even looked at those seeds for a while.
I hadn't even heard his name in a while.
I didn't even know he was doing anything anymore, man.
Yeah, dude. He basically does the same thing Bodhi does.
He just goes around and fucking collects seeds from around the world.
And it's just like, I don't know.
We were talking about this the other day.
It's like that dude should get a lot more fucking.
Well, you made a good point too.
Like he was the guy that wasn't like naming most of his stuff.
He was kind of doing like the number nomenclature, if you will.
And I guess those names just didn't stick like an actual, like, you know, the candy treat names.
Fuck.
For sure. Like, I guess, like, I've heard, I don't know.
I don't remember I heard this or maybe it was a forum or something, but I guess he fucking like, it was like initials.
And then like the number, it wasn't even like relative to like a fucking phenotype.
I guess it was just his age when he made the line.
So it's like Casey 36.
Oh shit.
Yeah, that's what I've heard.
I don't know if that's fucking true.
So no.
Nah, that can't be.
I don't feel like there was a 36 and a 45.
Yeah.
I feel like those were pretty close to when they came out.
Maybe. I don't know.
I don't know. I mean, he was already out by the time I really got into cannabis, though.
It's hard to say.
He seemed to have like a bunch of shit already set aside at the time.
I don't know much about the guy personally.
Like this is just, you know, like I said, hearsay.
But yeah, he made some fucking crazy shit.
You could still find like really like the 36 was super fruity, like crazy turps.
Almost all of them.
There was a couple of swaggy ones for sure.
But like growing his stuff in like 2000, was it like 10?
Something like that.
It was fucking cool shit.
And then there's a guy like Santa Rosa Turp Farm or Urban Turp Farm or something like that.
He's using all these Casey Brain stuff with the sour diesels and making these new washer strains.
So I don't know.
It's cool that people are coming across him again.
And he seems to be going out and doing new collections.
So it'd be cool if something neat came out.
Hell yeah, dude.
So you were very fucking generous and you blessed me with this gigantic bag of fucking fire.
And I see a few crosses in there with one that you made me drool about in the discord.
And that was that dumpster hash plant that I don't know much about that in the Pacific Northwest.
I haven't heard much about it.
Can you enlighten us as to what the dumpster hash plant is?
Yeah, it's not.
So it's my favorite.
Where is it?
It is my favorite.
It is the one thing that I always have.
It's just a fucking clone I found in a bag of Bodhi seeds that I bought for fun.
It was just like this fucking one that just stuck out.
And at the same time I was doing like a bunch of Panama's and Bubba's and like different things like that.
And then I just had these like fucking shitty little dumpster hash plants going.
And they just would not grow for the life of them.
And I just kind of wrote them off.
And I took clones of everything and just back up or whatever.
And at the end of it, it's just like there's one fucking just caked little fucking plant.
And it had this crazy like dryer sheet and curry fucking profile.
It's like cleaning products, but like also just like a nasty yellow curry.
And I started going, I scope it and shit.
The heads look fucking awesome.
Big bulbous things.
No fucking stalk really.
And the lowers, they fucking stalked out like crazy.
So it was like a neat little fucking, neat little plant.
I've never seen anything quite like it.
There were a couple like similar in the batch, but like this curry thing was just.
Not only that, but like with all these fucking land races, I get paranoia like a motherfucker.
And Jesus Christ, like testing these things is just like a fucking holding a gun to my head every night.
It's just like.
And then I find this thing and now like it fucking.
It kicks me off just right.
I feel great every time I'll get that nice daytime style like that thing where when you're fucking just like.
Hanging out, you just go into your own world for a little while and then you just hear something.
And they're like.
Yeah, yeah, we're all good.
Shit, that's got you looking out the door.
There's like a squirrel outside just minding its own business and you're just embracing.
Nice.
Yeah, no, I definitely get that.
And I've been telling my guys that too.
I've you know, for years I've been the I love ties.
I love to Tiva's.
I'm all about that stuff.
The last few years, you know, as I'm aging and shit, I'm starting to get more into the into the downs, into the relaxing ones.
Yeah, I think that I think the Sinai ruined it for me because we found a really fucking hazy one out of that Egyptian land race.
And oh my God, it blew it.
Swami gas from Swami organic seeds.
He actually selected towards that phenotype.
But it was one of the last ones I had had where it makes everything brighter.
It makes everything louder.
The ground kind of starts doing the wave thing.
You're just wrong.
And I was like, man, I just this stuff's not for me like it was when I was a teenager.
Yeah, I'm not.
I'm not the party guy anymore.
I don't need the party.
Oh, then you talk about it.
But yeah, talk about destroying a party, though.
I don't smoke a joint of that with some people that have never had it before.
And I was like, I was crawling out of their skin.
It's a fun game to go and play.
But man, I cannot do it every day anymore.
So these like these more Indica base are kind of what I'm going for anymore right now.
Hell yeah, man.
I just thought we need to probably meet up dumpster Donna with your dumpster hash plant.
Yeah, dumpster Donna was one that I found out of some Swami organic seeds.
It was a paki chocolate tie hybrid cross back to the chocolate tie.
And I mean, there were there was phenotypes all over the board.
But the one that I selected for it looked like a paki plant with Thai leaves on it.
And it had the paki yield, the paki bud structure.
But the effect was like a calmer tie.
And it was just beautiful.
But it wasn't it wasn't the flavor profile you'd expect for it.
When that paki got involved with the chocolate tie, it just made this funky wet garbage thing.
And every time I explain it to somebody, they'd be like, Oh my God, you like that?
And I'm like, fuck yeah.
Favorite profiles just nasty shit like that.
And if you're saying you're getting nasty, all kinds of stuff out of this dumpster hash plant, the curry, that sounds really intriguing.
It was the first thing I found with that.
I like odd shit like that.
Like that's that's that's what's special to me.
That's what's unique.
And that's the kind of stuff that I like to smoke.
That's why those Los Sotos are so fucking cool.
I never fucking smelled anything like that going Chinese food restaurant like, yeah, all day long, please.
And with a peanut butter taste like, yes, let's go.
Are you going into these Chinese restaurants dressed like that, though?
Yes, absolutely.
Me.
You're a goddamn hero.
But yeah, so the Senegal stuff, too, like you go and like, for some reason, this whole fucking area right here, like there's like these fucking burnt tire, like sour Skittle things that are all over that area.
And it's as much as I hate sifting through a bunch of.
That it's worth it, because these some of the profiles that come out are just gnarly, just like hot, rubber, sour Skittle, like those Senegalese, those things were fucking awesome, man.
So that mix with like a fucking paki tie or something like that, that would be a fucking.
That'd be a fun combination.
Did you ever get a chance to touch or smoke or do anything with the Moroccan?
No, I unfortunately have strayed away from Moroccan because I haven't heard the best things.
I have.
I have a pack of them, I think somewhere, but they might be like a Moroccan Congo cross or something like that.
I don't know. I've never grown Moroccan, but I imagine it's probably.
I don't know. I can see it being like.
A weird variation on like.
What I'm not saying this is the combination, but it would be like a mix of like Afghani and like Congolese, I could see Moroccan being like.
I don't know. There's like certain ways you can kind of like.
Pick out what certain regions stuff is going to be like for some reason.
Africa, there's like a lot of like really similar like baselines that run through these things like veins.
And then like as soon as.
Like there's just.
Like there's just.
Like these base flavors that just hang out and base set profiles, but they just develop in different ways in these different regions and.
I don't know for how much like hash making Morocco does and stuff like that.
I could see them going and focusing all towards like these hashy varieties, but I don't think flavor is too big of a concern because kind of hash.
Especially when you're doing that and just kind of goes into the same like muddled flavor.
So I don't think they would express too hard for like flavor profiles, but I don't know.
I don't know. I never grew them.
We had a couple that were cross to.
I'm trying to remember what it was back then. It was some kind of purple strain, but they came through like a really, really almost like a potpourri.
I've been going on. It wasn't bad.
I wasn't crazy about the high super lethargic.
Yeah, like.
If you would have let blonde hash go bad, you know, just age for like, like my uncle had this shit in his closet for like the last 10 years, you know, he's just knocks me out kind of like that.
But I feel like.
So do you think it was like the actual like profile from the actual plant itself?
Or do you think it was?
It was a purple type that I was used to smoking, and I don't remember if that would have been like a purple Girl Scout cookies or it was from a California breeder.
So that Bay Area, you know, one of those typical like grape apes, something like that.
And he had crossed it in.
He had crossed it into what was then called Katama from Katama, Morocco.
And it wasn't until like a few years later that I heard it not called Katama, that I heard it called the Belia.
Is that right? Belia, Moroccan Belia.
I believe that's what it's called.
But I had never heard that name.
We just called it Katama.
And so I kind of knew the purple strain that was in there.
So you notice when there's something different, you know, brought into it.
So that potpourri type of thing, it wasn't strictly purple.
It definitely was influenced somehow by that Moroccan.
Interesting.
That would be a cool.
You got me thinking.
Who knows? It could have been like a spicy thing.
I just fucking like mine shot into like, actually, that would make sense.
You can find these cool potpourri things.
I'm like, what do I have that I could go and find?
It's like, I hadn't had it pure, though, so I don't know.
Maybe, you know, there's a lot of land races, just pure feral stock that can be pretty lackluster.
So, oh, dude.
You mean most?
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
Most.
You have to.
Exactly.
Dude, like you got to.
I don't know.
So, like I do.
I like doing the preservation stuff, but then going and doing like a.
Like this guy that hooked me up with all these fucking his own preservation shit from the start, he.
He crossed a lot of his shit with this Kemdela Kem, which is a Kemdi crossed with I-95.
And.
It's I've grown out a ton of them, just like that Senegalese hit with the I did.
That's a beautiful plant, man.
Every time you say it.
Yeah, it's it and it's just towers.
It's beautiful.
But the Senegalese crossed with the Kemdela Kem like it added so much fucking resin to it.
But like with the Senegalese, it was like it's crazy.
It's really fucking long stocks, but really good tackiness.
Like pretty small.
Not even pretty, really small fucking resin heads.
But they're like.
It's just a different texture than you see in a lot of different fucking stuff that's going around now.
It's like these little fucking pinheads.
They're just like.
But with the Kemdela Kem, it just added a million more of those.
And it's hard to bully those fucking land races around.
So like it held pretty strong to its fucking sativa.
Like base, but.
Definitely cut the time down and went down from like a 12 to 14 down to like a.
A solid.
1112.
So that was nice.
But.
Yeah, I like doing the fucking mixing.
After one out crossing from a feral stock.
That's not that bad.
Yeah.
Who's to say how feral it is because it's coming from a dude who's trade.
Like this dude is out in Africa.
He's going and collecting stuff.
He's probably grown his own stuff.
He's also has the wherewithal to be able to go and use the Internet to go and send things back and forth.
So he has some interest.
So as far as the term feral stock, I.
I sometimes have a problem with that because I can't claim that, you know, like I can only go as far as I could.
As far as I could say.
But it's like.
Who's to say whoever told me that isn't lying.
So I know I came from where they came from and stuff like that.
Soon as it gets there, that fucking line dies.
So did this guy go out there and collect them himself?
I don't know.
Did he get from a guy that's been growing and selecting for years?
I don't know.
And.
Yeah.
And I feel like that's any more like the term feral stock.
It's it's a hard term to go and run with because it's just if they're coming from someone, they're coming from somewhere like.
There's not a ton of ferals that people are sending on the Internet anymore.
There's a lot of people that say they do.
But yeah, full power was that Indian land race exchange.
I mean, it's a selection in a field of plants that have been being grown over the course of a very long time for select plants.
I mean, they collect seeds for the ones they like.
They're not going to fucking, you know, sell them.
They're not going to fucking, you know, so.
There it is.
The awesome stuff.
Yeah, we got the Indian tour book because I didn't have a big collection of Indians, so I was like, oh, I'm going to get in on this one.
First time about seeds in a long time.
Which ones did you get from the Indian land race?
Oh, we got the the Indian tour book.
So it had like a pack from every region that they went to and collected, and it came with a book that had pictures of the plants that they were selecting seeds from and explaining the latitude, longitude, what they thought of these plants, the smells and the flavors they were getting off of it.
It's pretty cool.
Yeah.
So do you consider that?
So what in your terms do you consider feral?
I would say that's heirloom.
OK.
When I think of feral seed, I think the seeds that are falling in the field, you know, that would be land or feral land race.
And then anything grown outside of that condition would then be considered heirloom.
Yeah.
What do you think?
I would agree with that assessment.
Also.
Heirloom and all that stuff.
Yeah, that's I mean, heirloom is a good thing.
I mean, heirloom is just work generations off of one original stock.
So.
Yeah, you're right with all that, man.
Like, I just want to I'm curious because.
No, I'm double checking my work.
Somebody's been doing it longer than me.
Yeah.
No, I'm just curious what other people's thoughts are on these things, you know?
So it's like what I could consider feral is very easily different to you.
So.
Yeah, no, I would I would consider the same thing, but to be fair, if it's.
I don't know if I would still consider I consider feral more so like seeds falling off of a plant in a wild situation, rather like whether that's like.
Right in the field, just falling straight back on the ground.
Yeah.
But if it's like a field that you're doing selection on and stuff like that, then I don't know.
There's so many different things that could come out of it because like.
All these fields are getting retilled and stuff like that.
So you are throwing all these.
So you have feral seeds that go and fall.
I would say that would be a cultivated land race.
Yeah.
OK, cool.
Yeah, I don't.
These are just things that like spin off in my head.
And it's like, how can this term be thought of differently?
So like.
I don't know.
It's cool.
I like these conversations.
Yeah, dude.
And you're not only breeding cannabis, you're breeding.
You did what?
Zinnias, all kinds of different flowers, all kinds of different peppers, squashes.
Holy shit, man.
Where do you find the time?
Dude, I just go to sleep real late and wake up real early.
A life of whatever.
I am.
I don't have kids yet.
And it's, you know.
So save some time with that.
And.
I don't know, man, it's it's something I care a lot about.
I got a full time job.
I got.
Fucking small farm that we run.
I help with.
Few other people's things around here.
We grew up in a farming community, still a farming community like.
I don't know, man.
It's it's just something I love.
So it never really feels like work unless I'm at work, you know.
So.
I don't know.
It takes a lot of time, but it's time that I don't mind losing right now.
We were talking about a lot of the different phones that you had in your area.
And the stuff that was popular around you and you'd mentioned the Death Star, obviously the dumpster hash plant, the lemon.
Gee, there was one that you said that I had no idea what it was.
The lydium.
Ah, the alludium Q36 exploding reactor.
That's awesome.
Yes.
A old Marvin the Martian reference from Looney Tunes back in the day.
The alludium Q36 is a.
Oh, let me.
So it is.
There was a group that was growing a whole bunch of really nice.
Lavenders, Indiana bubblegums, Bubba's, things like that.
Also, this may be a precursor as to like why I like Linalool and shit so much.
But.
They were going and started making their own lines and shit like that and made this one called.
Actually, they might have made one before that.
So there is another line that was called its sister line.
It's called the new and it was a bubblegum lavender.
Put back onto a lavender clone.
And then there was the alludium Q36, which is the.
Bubba Kush lavender.
And that's what made the alludium, but it's just like a Bubba on steroids with.
Just way slower batch.
And it's a.
It's a.
It's a.
It's a.
It's a.
It's a.
It's a.
It's a.
It's a.
It's a.
It's a.
It's a.
It's a.
It's a.
It's a.
It's a way slower batch.
It's miserable plant to grow.
It is a beautiful little golf ball like.
Resonance as fuck, like great smells like.
It was.
If people had alludium next to like a fucking bag of cookies, no one's picking cookies.
It's and it's something that's been around for a little while now.
Those dudes.
And to be honest, like that lineage, I know it's the Bubba, the lavender and the Hawaiian Indica.
If it's back crossed on the Bubba, I don't remember exactly.
Those guys disappeared pretty quickly after I first saw it.
And I just the only thing that I still see is the alludium.
The nuke was just a.
Lavender potpourri bomb like just beautiful pinky light violet purple fucking buds.
Beautiful fucking weed, but yeah, dude, those those two were.
Chef's kiss.
Plus that bubble gum, the lavender, like all the shit those guys were fucking pumping out was incredible.
And yeah, we're fortunate, though, Ludium still around.
I had it for a while.
I got to get it back again, but we still have like Island Sweet Skunk around.
That's been around for a long time around here.
Yeah, that was popular here, too.
Yeah, and I don't know you with Canada.
Yeah, it's great. Yeah.
Yeah, border towns.
Yeah, but yeah, there's a there's a lot of cool shit that went around for a long time.
The G13s that went around here were fucking nuts, dude.
There were several of them.
There's there's this one with a variegation that I've been looking for for a long time.
There's another one that went out to Colorado and was never seen again.
And me and the guy that took it out to Colorado are still looking for it.
It was a super squatty little fucking like it almost looked like.
It wasn't like a pine tree, like it's.
It's side branching would almost like sprog itself.
It was just like this little fucking like hedge that would just stout as fuck and just throw these fucking potent ass buds.
But then, yeah, dumpster, the woody haze.
Woody haze.
Oh, dude, that woody haze was gnarly.
It was a dumpster and super silver haze cross, I believe.
And it was just potent.
Looked beautiful.
Yeah, I mean, there's a four way cut that went around here.
That one was really fucking great.
Just like this raunchy fucking like burning tire.
There's a ton of people that say it was the same as the Fairfax.
I don't think so.
I think it was a different one.
There's tons of people that were popping seeds, man.
It doesn't always have to be the same cut.
And most likely.
And yeah, I don't know.
We're fortunate where it's like a lot of these older lines, they still hang out around the area and are back and forth.
You'll see them for a little wave and then they disappear.
There's this mango Afghan.
What do we got here?
Grow Green Daddy says, does Boogie have any tips or advice for growing the more unique land races in small towns?
Grow Green Daddy says, does Boogie have any tips or advice for growing the more unique land races in smaller areas?
Not height limited, though.
Yeah, so I personally like going in.
If it's a new one that I'm just getting into, have no idea about it.
Aside from the assumption that, OK, because it's from this area, it probably has a closer yardage equator.
Fucking leggy or they're going to get like that.
It goes north and south.
And then as you go, fuck it.
I feel like a weatherman right now.
Are there no other bad ass weatherman I've ever seen?
Hey, we might listen to this dude.
But yeah, I mean, if you're in this area, you can go and anticipate that you're going to have your plants are just going to fucking explode.
You can kind of.
So I like to go and kind of just like navigate what my expected flowering time.
If you're getting seeds from somebody and they could give you a really good fucking information about like what to expect.
Awesome. Also buy seeds from people that test their fucking gear, because if they can't tell you how to grow it.
Fuck them. Can you say that one more time?
I didn't hear it.
Okay. Buy seeds from people who test their gear.
It's yeah.
For the people in the back.
Yeah. Fucking wild that people are just like, take my money.
Yeah.
What?
I made this.
Yeah.
So, A, I don't have the fortune of knowing what these things grow like.
So I can only go off of self-assumption for a lot of them, like on the map and shit.
Like, oh, so pretty south.
So there could have the potential of being like some pretty fucking like squatty little guys and stuff.
But also that fucking equatorial thing is still in there.
So it's just like has the potential to blow up.
So south of the equator is a little different than north, but also India.
Weird thing.
Just read.
Please do your due diligence when you're going and popping seeds.
If you want to like fully understand what's going on, ask as many questions as possible.
Okay, let me expand on it because I have a question for you personally.
You've done a few equatorials, right?
Oh, yeah.
What flowering time are you using with them usually and how quick are you flowering them?
Okay, so most of the time if I'm doing a test run of them in a isolated room, they'll go on to like a ten and a half hour light.
Nothing too crazy.
Light on ten and a half hours.
And I don't want to go too crazy with it and just like go and cut them because you could speed the shit up.
But like ten and a half hours kind of sits pretty still with them.
I'll go and sprout them, veg them for about two weeks and then throw out.
I'm just looking for like basically what the expected stretch is and then understanding what the baseline terpene profile is.
So I'll grow them in something like a one gallon pot, go and put ten to twenty of them together and then just go and flower them real close together.
Yeah, I mean a lot of the stuff that I do, I just kind of stress test a lot of things, see how it goes.
If it does really well in one area, I'm going to go and probably continue it.
Like if it's grown in a stress-induced environment like these small pots for these equatorial sativas and shit like that,
you're going to very quickly see your fucking perm expressions.
You're going to go and very quickly see how fast things go and try to reach up to the light ahead of other things.
You're going to see a base glance as to what you're going and this is like, I'm not saying you got to have some seeds to go and do this.
Like this isn't something like you have a ten pack and you want to do a preservation.
If that's the case, fucking open pollinate that shit and do that really nicely.
But for like testing these equatorial things and just getting a base reference and see how these are, I like kind of stressing them, see what they do.
And then if it's something that we can work with and there's some nice smells that come off of it, let's continue with it.
But if not, I have the seeds then at least, but probably not going to continue with it.
Oh yeah, man. Tons of good information there. That's pretty much what I'm doing as well.
I do one gallon pots. I do 12 or 12, 12 from seed. I flower them right away from seed.
But I've been using 1113 that more Hawaiian type deal, but ten to half. That's cool.
You bringing it down your, you know, you're not going for yield when you're looking through land races for the first time.
Oh no, not by any means.
So everything's just get it done fast. And that's cool that you brought it down to ten and a half.
I don't think I, you know, I going from hybrids and starting with some, some of those doing 12, 12 on practically everything.
And then realizing not all land races were like that, you know, he had to bring down that light quite a bit.
So I went to the 1113. I haven't grown anything outside of that yet.
I like the 1113 for everything else. Even my, like just regular lines that I do and shit.
Like it's, I like the 1113. I think them having a little longer sleep is nice.
I think a lot takes off at the night and the dark and yeah, I just, I just really love that light cycle.
It seems that like during winter too, you get like really nice colors coming out when you go and do that 1113.
The ten and a half, I honestly, I was doing a lot of things just 12, 12 for a long time.
I got into doing 11 and a half for, yeah, 11 for a long time just because I was doing everything together, just testing and because it's the team was together.
And then over the course of time, I just fucking graduated into doing this land race thing.
They just seem to respond better and they have like a better flower cluster sometimes.
It doesn't make sense to me, but it's just like things that have happened for me using that.
They just seem to kind of build a little squatter in comparison, but granted that's like a clone off the mother.
So I can't really use that as a solid reference.
So your, your clone is always going to be like, if you have a seed mother and go and take a fucking clone off of that seed mother,
your clone is always going to be slightly different than the seed mother.
So I can't really contribute that to the strain itself or whatever, but I don't know.
You just got to play around with it, test things, experiment, see what works.
That one works for me.
Good points, man. All good information.
I really, really appreciate all that, man.
Fuck, I'm learning a little bit here too. I like that.
Can I ask why you said that you use the seed mother? Is DNA not DNA?
So I think there is a significant difference when you go and take a plant's taproot away.
And I just don't think that you're able to have the same metabolism and then your plant itself is just going to go and result in a fucking...
Because it has a different nutrient uptake system, it has a different expression that's tied to that.
And that's all. I don't think there's anything... It's still the same thing.
You'll still have the same profiles and stuff.
I've just noticed a change in the way the actual like bud structure looks to a point.
And granted, that could be also environmental, but I...
Probably a little bit easier to take care of over a long period of time.
Yeah, and I love seed mothers and shit, but they gotta go eventually.
And I don't know. It's just my experience.
And once again, everything that I'm saying, this is just my experience.
I implore everybody to please go out.
And if you're an organic grower and want to try synthetics, go fucking try synthetics.
Learn, fucking teach yourself something new.
It's fun to get out of the way for a second, see it from a different perspective,
and then go and fucking get back into the thing that you're really into.
Maybe you won't. Maybe you fucking love synthetics then.
Be like water.
Just go fucking learn, man.
It's fun. Go make a ferment. Go fucking do all this shit.
If you want to grow something, but you're afraid about flower height and shit like that, figure it out.
Bonsai trees exist, man.
Just fucking play around.
It's for you. It doesn't have to be for everybody else.
If it's something you want to do, just fucking do it.
Don't worry about what other people are going to fucking say, especially with the Internet bullshit.
There are so many dummies that just love yelling into the void.
Just fucking do your thing. Have fun.
You want to make seeds? That's my biggest PSA.
If you want to make seeds, fucking make seeds.
Bro, I implore you to be a little focused, though.
If you intend on giving them out, please have the intentions that you would want from receiving from somebody.
But you want to have fun? Fuck yeah, man.
Go make some seeds.
It's not hard anymore. Just go buy a pack. You find some cool shit.
Get into it.
It's much harder to clean up a gene pool than it is to muddy it up.
If you want to learn about breeding, fucking grow peppers.
It's the easiest fucking thing. It is such a simple step.
You have a very simple understanding as to, like, oh, male flower goes on the stamen.
Ha.
You pollinate it right there.
You get to see the actual fruit development.
You get to see the seeds.
You see how they develop. You grow the seeds out.
You see how the generation looks if it's two different varieties.
If you're just self-pollinating the pepper, you're not really—
I mean, it's cool, but you're not making anything. You're just continuing.
But, yeah, dude, if you want to learn about pot and plant numbers are something that weird you out,
and with good reason—that shit's fucking wild.
It's crazy.
Just grow fucking vegetables, man.
You can teach yourself everything you need to know.
It opens up your mind. It goes and teaches you new ways of doing things,
new ways of looking at things.
It's the closest you can get to having a thousand fucking pot plants is by having a thousand pepper plants.
Just teach yourself. Learn. Do all these fun things.
I don't know, man. Just get into it. Go for it.
I love it, dude. Great information.
We definitely have to do another one of these if you're down for one in the future, Boogie.
I had a great time, and I learned so much from you on this fucking episode.
Thank you. It was great. It was super fun.
I've never done one of these before, so that was pretty cool.
Happy I was you first.
Yeah, I look like fucking Lieutenant Dan on Boogie Chunks.
It's awesome, though.
It speaks Boogie Chunks.
I really wanted to get into a lot more stuff with you, and that's what I'm saying.
We need to get you on again because you also pair terpenes with food, and I feel like that could be an episode in itself.
So definitely looking forward to seeing some of the stuff that you done up there.
People can find you on Instagram at Boogie Chunks. Where else?
That's it.
That's it.
I'm not a huge tech guy. It's cool, but it's a toxic place sometimes, man.
That's why we made our little community there.
So maybe go over to the Discord. Maybe you might catch Boogie Chunks one of these times.
I'll be over there. I don't know if you want to set up a giveaway or something like that.
I would love to start. If you guys want, I could just start sending stuff out regularly.
Lots of giveaways. I'm not really asking for anything.
Or we could set up stuff for a charity. That would be fucking tight.
And have it go towards a foundation. That would be ultimately the cool thing.
I'm down for any of that. That's awesome.
So we could try to set up something where once a month I just send you a bundle.
And we could just go and set it up for a charity or something.
That's fucking generous as hell, man.
Wow. I'm overwhelmed with gratitude. Thank you, man.
Before you said that, I was going to say, you sent me all these seeds.
One of the big problems as a grower is we keep way more than we could ever fucking grow.
So I was going to give out a couple packs.
We have a Game Day giveaway tomorrow.
We have a game show that we play over there on the same program.
It's called Do or Dab. Maybe you've heard of it.
But we have two guys that go head to head.
And it's basically like truth or dare, but everything's a dare.
Sometimes the dare is doing a dab.
And if you don't do the dare, you have to take a dab.
Sometimes it's just taking a dab or doing a dab.
It's pretty fucked up.
It's an hour of heavy smoking, just breaking the fucking stigma.
You're not going to overdose on cannabis. We're just going to leave having a good time.
And the prize that we usually give away is seeds from one of our guests or something like that.
So I was going to pick a few packs out of that.
So you guys will be able to get some seeds from Boogie Chunks there.
But yeah, man, definitely fucking appreciate that as well.
You are a blessing of a person, and I'm glad to have gotten to know you.
And I cannot wait to have you on again.
Dude, yeah, absolutely.
Can I just say, if anybody has any cool charities that they have,
stuff that they would recommend, maybe post them or bring them up or something like that.
Just do something around either cannabis advocacy or just helping people in some capacity.
That would be fucking awesome.
Just maybe enlighten us on some things maybe we don't know about.
A charity that could use the fucking money, man.
I'll be sending stuff out regularly.
If you have anything that you're interested in, just fucking reach out in some capacity.
And just talk. I talk to everybody.
I don't follow many people.
Well, I have many followers, so we'll just go from there.
And just DM me and we can figure things out.
Hell yeah, man. Sounds good.
Thank you again for your time.
Thank you for all your generosity.
I can't wait to have a Boogie Chunks garden next year, which I guarantee is going to happen.
Oh yeah.
Thank you so much, most of all, for your time.
Absolutely, man. It was great hanging out.
All right. Have a good night, brother.
You too.
Thank you all of our Patreon members coming in, supporting the show.
Boogie Chunks for taking all the time to support us.
I can't wait to do this again.
You all have a good night.
You know we got what you need, baby
So take it and move along
I said we got what you need, honey
Come and move along
Come on
I said, babe
I said, babe
Oh, honey
Come and move along
