podcast listeners and welcome to another exciting episode of the Calix and True
podcast. I'm your host as always, Doc Calix, and I want to thank you for taking
time out of your morning to come join us. We have a very exciting three-hour long
podcast with the legendary breeder himself, AK Mean Brains. We're gonna break
this down to a couple parts so you don't have to take on all the brunt of it at
once, this being part one. AK's here to talk about old Super Sativa C club lines,
some of his favorite blueberry types, semi-autoflower genetics and how to keep
them, and even share some stories to make you laugh. So whether you're a grower, a
breeder, or you just want to have something to sit back and listen to while
you choke on your joint, you're in the right place. If you want to get more
involved with the crew, come check us out on Discord. That's right, I have my very
own private Discord server entirely free. Whether you're having problems with
your grow or you're just looking to build community and network, it is the
place for you. Come check us out at discord.gg forward slash CalixCrew
podcast. You can find that link in my bio on Instagram as well. Now before we get
too long and drawn out, we'll pop right into the episode. Alright, we are on the
line with AK Beanbrains. How are you doing, AK? Doing pretty good. How's the
weather up there? You guys are starting to get some light, right? Yeah, the light's
coming back, but we are in a kind of a freak thaw, at least 10 degrees
above our norm. But we're thawing out and it's kind of floody, icy. We have, you
know, quite a bit of snowpack, about four feet of snowpack or something that was
there. So, light's coming back, but it's pretty bad right now for weather. We
call it break up when it normally happens in March 20th to, you know, April
10th around there. We get some hardcore break up, but it's happening a little
early. Good deal. It's good for our tourism industry. The only thing you can
do in the winter up here is called Fur Rendezvous. And it's, you know, old time
fur breeder celebration thing that turned into a modern day event. And it's
going on starting tonight for the next two weeks. And it's like, they have dog
mushing races, so much crap goes on. But it's on the first Saturday in March is
the Iditarod. So this kind of kicks off the whole dog mushing thing. There's a
lot of sprint races, but they do sit. There's not a lot to do in Alaska, in
Anchorage in the winter, especially you go snowmachining or outdoor activities
or skiing, lots of skiing and bullshit like that. And activities very little,
but they have, you know, fun shit right now. Ice bowling, snowshoe, softball
tournament, running with the reindeer where these fools all run down our main
Fifth Avenue downtown in different ways with reindeer. Pretty comical, all of the
little shit that's going on. But yeah, that's kind of wild timing that it
happened. We're interviewing today and have a big fireworks. Anchorage is pretty
boring.
Snow bowling.
Yeah, snow bowling. Yeah, they clear the ice of all the snow and ice bowling, they call it.
What are they bowling with?
No, just regular bowling pins and bowling balls. It's just on ice out on a lake, right at one of the main
establishments here in town. One of the big bar, a sports bar, kind of big sports
bar place does it. There's little events all over like that, but we're that podunk.
That's our big deal. There's people that do come tourism wise. People always want to visit the
winter. If you didn't come this weekend or this, and there's big snow sculpture competition too,
which is that is pretty cool. There's some real good sculptures. But if you didn't come this two
weeks or three weeks in the winter, it's pretty damn dark and cold with nothing to do unless you
just have a friend that has a cabin in the middle of nowhere and good snow machines and then you
can go just tear it up. Or you know, if you're targeting fellow skiing or something like that,
that's that's an attraction. But other than that, there's I mean, remember, we had any concerts
this whole year, they don't send us a whole lot. It's bullshit.
Yeah, it's been kind of an off couple years anyway. That's cool, though.
Yeah, that's a normal year. We get we get the least out of anybody on a normal year. So
right. There's a lot of live music events going on over the next two weeks to a couple good comedy
guys come up here. They're all targeting this whatever tourism money is available.
But yeah, we all get a we get a sense of relief. All Alaskans. This is like we realize about
Valentine's Day. Most Alaskans see the difference in light coming back as we started gaining about
four, three or four minutes a day by then five minutes a day almost coming back. So
you kind of get a different attitude and see a renewal of the sun coming back. It's like a renewal
of life and the new season. And after the last two years, everybody, you know, be in a different mode.
It's going to be like a brand new, fresh year and nice this year.
Good deal. So it'll be good for us to come down and go fishing this year.
Yeah, there was two years ago. I didn't go fishing one time because the town that I go
fishing out of Whittier and it's one of the entrance to Prince William Sound.
They had massive restrictions. The town has a tunnel to get into. That's like the longest
tunnel in North America. And yet they built it in the 40s. Army Corps of Engineers did it for
army purposes. There's a fuel depot over there. All the fuel to Anchorage comes through that.
And they closed down a lot of restrictions and it included the launch that I went to. You had to
have a COVID pass to be able to go into the industrial part of the town, which is where all
the fish processing is. And they had these, you know, the all meat houses and fish processing
around America was really getting infected on that first wave. And there were hundreds of people
sick and they couldn't take a chance of losing the fish industry on all these salmon that was
coming in. So they basically blocked the town and I didn't get to go fishing. I didn't go.
I didn't go at all. And last year I tried to catch up and things got in the way. You know,
last year I was almost normal, but little shit got in the way. I kept fucking shrimp puller,
wouldn't work, bilge pumps, maciator pumps. I was doing more maintenance than fishing,
but the boat's tight. We're going to go out here. It's still winter, full blown, but
March 31st, we can shrimp. I mean, not shrimp, but we can catch a snow crab and red crab.
We're fixing to get the boat in the water early this year.
Yeah. I don't know about you, but I get super antsy if I don't get
out fishing within a certain amount of time. I gotta have my therapy.
I'm antsy right now because that is my destressor. Getting over there in the boat and being in
Prince William Sound, it's a special place. If you make it up here, you're going to just go,
wow. We're going to make sure of it. It's wow. The place is worth a visit. I kept trying to get
Professor P to go fishing when he came up here on a four or five day visit
two or three years ago, but he wasn't wanting to go jump in the boat.
If it was you, we'd have probably went to the Cannabis Cup for about eight hours and spent
about 40 hours on the water. You wouldn't have even had to tell me twice. I'd just jump in that
bitch. Oh, yeah. Could you imagine going to your choice high times Cannabis Cup or Prince William
Sound? I'm going there for the event. I'm going to check out the event, but if we can spend one
day there and then fucking go fishing the rest of the time, I'm cool with that. Yeah. Our events
up here aren't quite like the ones I've been to. I've been able to. I didn't go to a lot,
but I was able to go to a couple of high times. The San Bernardino Southern California was pretty
wild event. Every big vendor was there and you know how they are. The big, big shows. It was
that's crazy. That was almost like a, I guess that's in between or near Coachella and all the
other like what was the chalice and all that, you know, so those people are like geared up.
I mean, it's not our style up here, like five speeds slower up here. Speaking about being geared
up, let's get on some Cannabis talk here. I was talking to you yesterday and you said you wanted
to talk about some of the original SSSC strains that you're working with. Yeah, that is something
that people had. I guess it was a void of it for a lot of time. Genetics were dried up or missing,
and I know there are a couple of real cuts around of some of the original stuff and people were
wanting it. But one of the things that I was able to bring back a few of the strains, a friend of
mine who was a big preserver of that original drops of both seed Bank of Poland and the SSSC.
He was collecting just about everything there was and he'd grow a little bit of it, but froze
all of it and would take it out and check it out or reproduce it one over generation and
put it back up properly and freeze it. Through a younger guy, Lupus Skunklord, he's on IG. He
was friends with this older guy or had met him through the forums, which I wasn't involved in at
all. I hardly ever got on forums or I didn't really want to deal with that, but I'd lurk a
little bit and check stuff out. But he was offering it years ago. I went back and did find old posts.
He went by Old Detroit on some of the forums. I forgot if it was IC Mag or whatever, but they
come up if you search them. And he was offering people the original SSSC right out of the Manila
Pacts just years ago. And nobody, you look at the thread, it wouldn't even go nowhere. Nobody
was taking them up on it. They were just like their offer was out there and people didn't see
that it was fake. I don't know about that. Maybe it's just like, I don't have knowledge. It's just
hard to believe why there wasn't some kind of want. I know he gave it to a couple of guys,
maybe a few of them. I think for even the people that are interested, there's a certain amount of
skepticism when genetics have been gone that long. It could have been a buried thread that
wasn't popular to the threads that do come up when you Google them. I don't know how that, I'm not
super familiar with how that whole system worked. I just like get on, find a little bit of information
and then go away again. But he did have a lot of strains and then he had offered Williams,
Wanderer, and Beatrix Choice and M48, which was, M48 was the last thing that SSC had produced.
They did have some unreleased strains that went higher than that number of M48 and they never did
hit the market. So there are people that did get those and it is even available and around today.
I know of another person that has an entire collection of SSSC2 and they're reproducing
it right now. What was the M48? Do you remember? Yes, M48 was South African and Hayes. I know Carl
and Keyes, the originators of the SSSC. Keyes is the son of Carl who was the original
breeder and owner of it. Through years ago, I had been collecting some of the,
it was from original purchases, really the seed catalogs from both the seed bank and SSSC. I had
like five of the original ones that I had had from 88, 89, 90 and somebody else that had some
different years. We got together and he gifted me them. I reproduced them and I had gotten a hold
of SSSC through like different channels because it was Daz at Mephesto, got a hold of his buddy
in Europe who runs that side of it, Mitch. Mitch knows Keyes real well because they hang out
and I had them. I asked if I could reproduce because there was copyrighted
issues that I had gotten a hold of. I asked if I could reproduce them and gift them back to him and
Keyes gave me full permission to go ahead and do it. I went and made some real high quality
reproductions of them and I ended up with about five or six SSSC catalogs. Even a friend of mine
American one, he's on IG and he's on different chats. People know him. He's a good collector of
old cannabis, super cool shit. He has the old cannabis trading cards. I mean, still in the
cellophane or our foil packs, like old bubble gum trading cards, the old cannabis line of,
I mean, that's crazy because you got to buy case of them and he still gets those things out. They're
vintage, but he had the original copies of both Neville's first year in business and SSSC's
handwritten black and white typed explanation of business, first year in business, how the
success is doing, what lines are coming and they'd have a little list of what the available
genetics were. The next year in 86, they hybridized it, almost made a catalog. They actually made,
SeedBank did make a catalog, Neville made an actual catalog in 86. Then the first real catalog
for SSSC is 87. Then I had those all the way through like 91, 90, I think is the last one that
I had, whatever it is. They're like books. They put in a ton of information for growing information
that's very, very, very technical and there's about 15 pages of information on there from
step one to end product. I mean, and it's got cool vintage shit, like sea of green of 144
that's at a time of one single screen and it's got a ton of cool information. But the M48 is the
last one on that whole list and it was a supplemental flyer. It had, I think, I think I
got them sitting around here. I think I'll look at a little flyer and they had the M48 on one,
M47 was I think, what is it? M47 is, I need glasses to even see what it says,
super indoor sativa and M47 and that was on the flyer with that M48, the Hayes South African.
And they had M46 was on that flyer too, super indoor indica. These are a little bit of
things that people don't really know unless you bought those. And the super indoor indica looks
exactly like Afghani one. And they originally were offering that Afghani one. It had the branded
sacred seeds logos and shit right on it. But so did other producers at the time. Neville did the
same thing. All of the first catalogs were all branded with sacred seed stuff because that
skunk one and from cultivator's choice. I made about 16. I ended up with like 16 of them.
Bodhi, Bodhi's friend. I mean, I met Bodhi and got lucky and met this guy down at Emerald or
something. I don't think I'd ever contacted him prior to that. And I think I had these catalogs
and I gifted him some of them, maybe a couple of them or something. I don't even remember.
Wasn't a major deal, but he had his friends, a photographer for the 1990, 1985 catalog where
Neville goes and visits the hash factories in the Khyber Pass. And it's all front cover of it is the
actual guys, you know, shows them holding the Afghan hash seed stock, shows the hash. They're
smoking a pretty wicked looking water pipe. And his buddy did the. It was in Khor a little bit,
too. It's very great information, but his buddy did all the photography work and had like a dozen
original uncirculated. Copies of that seed bank catalog, and I was I was blown away that
somebody would have originals and he gives me an original and he had about four others, I think.
And I asked if I could copy him and he was on his way to this a few years back, he was on his way to
Mexico to do that land race hunt. I think I forgot who he was going with, but they were all geared up
to Mexico and regional areas to find a bunch of real good stuff. I think that's when he brought
back the old rustic tobacco from Maria Sabina and a bunch of other cool shit. But anyway, he's going
to the airport. He told me he would send me the catalogs and I was like, well, don't go out of
your way. I know you're you're going to be busy for months. He was going to be doing that stuff
for months on a trek. And he did. He had his he had his wife go bring go to the post and sent me
those four or five copies he had. So I was like super honored and I copied them, I was able to
send I think I delivered them back at Emerald and delivered them back with copies. That's what I did.
The memories are so bad that I. He got all of that way, it increased the whole a lot of the catalogs
to like. Or 10 or 14, and I got some of the more rare ones after that, but there's their info.
It's if you don't have them sitting there to just go to and look for reference, it's better than the
Internet. It's faster. It's the original. All this info is been downloaded and formatted for the
Internet. Yeah, no, I'm the same. I like a written copy in front of me. I've either gifted or
there's there's times that so, you know, sell seed combinations. Only the only way you could
get them was with seed combinations. So the people, some of them reposted that information
in public form. So it is very readily available. I know.
Nice. Yeah, I'm going to have to grab a few of those copies off that.
Off you. Yeah, it's essential information. I don't care where you keep it at the toilet,
at the fucking coffee table, piss the wife off and leave them just out off the coffee table.
And that would bring a lot of memories back for me.
Everybody had a story to everybody. It's crazy. Everybody that got them had a story and knew the
exact moment that they lost him. It was a flood, a fire and a dad, a mom, a FBI. I mean, I heard
every fucking incarnation of how the catalogs could go away and lost to history. And I joke
back and say, well, you know how to get them back. I don't like the.
I never had any. I got to look through a couple of them. But back when those came out,
I was more of a consumer than interested in growing or breeding or anything like that.
I got a handle on those in the 87 high times. They were advertising the 1988 seed bank of
Holland magazine seed catalog. And that's the one that got him busted. That's the one that
brought the green merchant shit out. And I have never I've seen that. I've seen terrible black
and white copies. I've seen other people holding the original color copies over in England. But
I wouldn't pass it to me, the copy. And that's the that's the unicorn right there. That's probably
the best. That's photo cover of all his shit or it's one of my favorites. But anyway, anybody that
has that 1988 seed bank of Holland catalog, I'll copy it and send back my full collection of them
to you. I've offered that to a couple of guys that have way larger collection of these and they kind
of like hold them too tight. I don't know why. Kind of strange. If somebody has that copy, get
it over to AK Bean Brains and I will personally give you a handful of fucking. I am sending,
you know, I'm buddies with the Irizing and the Indian Land Race Exchange and
oh, two or three of those guys. And they you know that that.
I'm spacing out the name of it, but they have that library way up in the fucking elevation
that they they have been building up in Nepal. And a set of these are going over there to that
awesome housed inside that thing. And it's like it's crazy if you see the thing, it's built
in the fucking middle of nowhere rocks and it's a library. That's awesome. And it's not another
set of them. You're really lucky to friends with. He has he's he was on it for a while, but that was
you know, the friends. Yeah, but, you know, he was best friend. He had a lot to do with Neville.
I knew everything and had a lot of stuff. But because Neville's sister was applying for
recreation or medical permitting in Byron Bay, Australia, they had already gone quite a ways
through the permitting and they had all this set up and they are going to be growing all of it.
A lot of his legacy stuff, the outback case and everything that he had left will be brought back.
And but I was able to get. You know, three or four sets of these copies of I sent him all of the ones
I had, you know, just for general information, but his original specific stuff went right back
to Neville's sister and she and went to his sons and his daughter. And that's the ones that are
going to run the whole entire operation. But, you know, she put them in the office. She framed them,
put them in the office. It's a pretty, pretty bullshit that they got that stuff back.
The D is when it made it happen. So. In fact, he had another set. I wasn't aware that you guys knew
each other. Yeah, he is. He sent me a bunch of stuff to play around with, but I wanted, you know,
some NL to this kind of stuff. But he sent me like NL to and low rider original stuff.
And oh, man. It's really cool, but he told me it was going to trigger it.
Sixteen hours and should finish, you know, because where he's at, it would do this.
So he says so much off of our system and our life. So we and I growing it outside,
it's getting killer and beautiful and come down to 18 hours. Let's get excited. No sexing at all.
Not at all. And then 16 hours come down and no sexing at all. And 14 hours come down and no
sexing at all. And that's dark and getting purple because our weather is already 40 degrees and
going down real quick. The day that we hit 13 hours where a plant will trigger, it's already
freezing. So I'm looking at these things and it was late on come for fall. So I just left them out.
And there it is about 13 hours. He's near auto half auto from pure low rider. Finally,
trigger. I've seen the first males and females and then had to move them inside to finish them.
So it's not a it's not a photo auto usable thing. That's what we're kind of targeting for. Autos up
here don't work real well outdoors. The weather is just way too harsh. Ninety percent or or not,
you know, weather resistant. They have arthritis or aspergillus or any of the natural fungus or
moles are going to hit them and they're done. And the rain, the wind, you got to grow them,
you know, in an open. There's a lot of like things that aren't going to work, you know,
like a street. I didn't have the original like Siberian ruderalis. Well, yeah, from Neville's
original stuff in 1990, we did grow. They were they were way hardier and did finish and then
you get a hybrid one and four just like skunk or pure indica like that. He had crossed them, too.
But they were smoking like cardboard. It was super high cbcb and and it just like the
is very valuable shit now because that's the meds. I've got some if you want circulating.
Well, I don't know. I've got a ton of them in old film canister, the old 35 millimeter.
This one's a one in the freezer. That's why I froze almost all of my old stock went to those
old 35 millimeter film canister. But I have one of my partner has one and they both just say Rudy
Rudy's on it. So we we cracked it open and have gone into a multiple times. It does just
instantly grow them single stocky past cardboard. It's it's interesting shit, though.
No, not the none of them that have been frozen off every time. We're near 100 percent.
He had a string of wicked tough Iberian cross shit from original because the photos and the
only photo that Neville used. That were not his own was from D and it was the photo in the 1990
CB catalog and that was advertising his Ruderalis hybrid crosses.
And that thing was a polar polar graph from. So.
It shows just at the back of the catalog shows a let me see what the offering was. I thought it was
in the Ruderalis in the thing. But he said he has the original stock.
He had the original stock. It's a Ruderalis skunk in the picture shows.
And it says it to Ruderalis Polaroid snapshot from Canada. But so he's been growing this this exact
stock since 1980s. This is the 1999 1990 catalog. And he told me he had been inbreeding it and just
growing it and it finishes and kicks ass and is potent and is good. He said originally it was just
sleepy weed but they had geared it now towards taste effect still got the super resistance and
durability. And he said he was going to send me some of it. But he sent me about 10 other things
and not that. And then he said he would resend it. But I've lost contact with him. He disappeared
off I.G. and I don't even don't know how the hell I guess we were talking only on I.G.
But regardless he has Ruderalis and the auto that might work up here. Photo autos are the
only thing that do real well up here. You can get something like a Colombian photo auto with the
fastest best indica. It'll have the fast tritus resistance and still finish it about 75 days.
That's the thing you got to target if you're going to do with that shit.
Everybody does like that. If you're going outdoors up here there's only a couple of choices you know
autos that don't do well. You can put a roof by like a greenhouse with screened walls to screen
a man. So it has ton of airflow that'll finish your autos or you. Everybody grows autos in here
indoors. It's so fucking silly. 18 hours of light indoors wasting all that time energy and space.
It is crazy world. Somebody's going to get offended.
Everybody can do their own thing. I'm not against any one form but also one thing people do up here
is grow them in the windowsill like if you've got a good sunny window that'll get you by with
some autos you can finish. Oh yeah. It works. It works pretty well because we have the you know
18 and 20 hours of sunlight and those things are just jamming in your window. Pretty impressive.
That's a good way but they're you know so protected environment of your house just like
your house plant. Right. That's funny. That's a good thing about that auto triggering blueberry
that I have fast blueberry. It's one of the lines of blueberry. I have a root restrictive root zone
restriction flowering response. So if you just put it in a solo cup all your males and females
and you want to sex it. Keep it in that solo cup and by the third fourth week you're actually going
to see males showing and you can separate. It's not a dead locked in tree but it's pretty damn
accurate and pretty heavy. So you can almost just pull all your males if you want to kill them kill
them if you want to do you know keep them in solos put them somewhere else because they're going to
continue to flower at that point. You know you just deal with them but you know what your females
are so you just repot them up and you get these just killer females. And even if you want a male
you just repot it up it'll just go back into full veg it won't be blowing out balls everywhere.
That's good. But outdoors it's about 10 days. It's weird the strain it's like a photo auto it must be
because if you don't shave the legs completely strip it the auxins are going to make this thing
go into flower. But if you strip the legs and put a huge root ball root give it good root zone it's
going to go to full veg and veg only and just be a regular 100 percent normal plant. But if you want
a root bind a good female you can put it in your window seal and it'll act like an auto. So you'll
get a very nice tight smokable killer blueberry and they can smell the thing growing the whole time.
They make a house plant an auto house plant so the fast blueberry is really an interesting strain
and it triggers outdoor maybe 10 days faster than your regular outdoor blueberries which finish fast
anyway. But this one will people have told me they finish it in like middle of September and they can
get it done before October weather starts to hit. So wow that's really important. That's an advantage.
That's oh yeah that's a really good thing up here. Photo auto or hybrid. I heard that the Iranian
autos were like that too. I don't know if it's in the genetics or if it was just got a little bit of
the you know the auto root arousal type of genetics in it or I know there's there's probably about 10
variations of cannabis between the Chinese. The you know root arousal is the sativas and then
there's going to be through evolution. I think they have made photo autos of their own which are
just a slight degree. The expression I would agree with that definitely they lean in one way
or the other you know. The expressions will tell you that. I mean I've been asked by some pretty
thoughtful people they're just like they're like putting a lot of thoughts in their head.
They tell me that they actually think that cannabis is a perennial because it is one that
you can grow forever. It could be biennial annual or perennial and it's thought to be the only
perennial in the world out of 6,000 annuals that has a male and a female to it minus the fact that
I think a radish is very similar. I know Ed Rosenthal had brought up some stuff on that
that it's that cannabis is not the only out of 6,000 but other people have argued that that's
not true. So I don't want to get into that shit. Cannabis is very very special for the fact that
every annual you think about it they're all asexual and cannabis is like that one expression
alone and then you look at all the different lines through the thousands of years that have
come down for whatever purpose they were using it for. They've and regionally too. It's one of the
best things in the world cannabis is. It's got every single expression and then through development
it's going to go to crazy places. I think that was undeveloped natural occurrences happening to
do what it does right now. Very little human intervention you know we just now hit the same
humans that weed has been around. They have prehistoric fucking you know marijuana fucking
fossils. Yeah my mind we're all in here thinking about all this weird shit with our you know our
20 hours of light up here. It's so hard. We don't get a fair chance on you know America. They all
have these plants. They get them vegged out make them to huge bushes and baby them and put them in
you know 600 gallon pots or in real outdoor ground or whatever the case and then it starts to flower
or start to show hairs June July and we're at 20 we're at 20 21 hours of light up here. So it's
we just kind of get ripped off. I'd love to grow some outdoors that just did auto trigger and
regular photo photo cannabis without doing light depth. Are you having trouble in your grow?
Maybe your plants aren't looking as good as you know they could be. Any experienced grower will
tell you that the number one thing that's going to get your plants growing to peak performance
is keeping a stable environment and staying within VPD range. And if you're anything like
me you can't afford a two to three hundred dollar environmental sensor. Well coconut's got your back.
Now for the low price of 69.42 you can pick up your very own coconut meat soup. Humidity temperature
and VPD charting with real-time push to app notifications will send notifications directly
to your phone keeping you in tune with your grow 24 hours a day. You can go to coconut.com
use code calyx for 10% off that's c-a-l-y-x for 10% off. Don't let your grow get the best of you.
Get the best of your grow with coconut. Now let's get back to the podcast.
I really wanted to get into those blueberries with you because that's a big part of what you
do too. But while we're talking about the original SSSC strains you said you got permission
to reproduce these. Is this something that we can expect here in the future? No not the strains. I
had actually those came from old Detroit all out of his freezers all of the SSSC and I gave him
back you know a good portion of seeds like a thousand of each one after I did the reproduction
and he's a super good old guy. He's like 73 or 74 running a medical co-op type of deal and right
outside of Detroit Michigan. He's been there the whole time. I mean he's like he's in it for the
long haul. He just did that Nigerian candahar in last year now it's about a year and a half ago.
He had just brought that out of the freezer did a huge grow out did a huge repopulation of it and
then put the stock right back in the freezer. You know everybody once or a bunch of people were
looking for that Nigerian candahar in pure form. I mean that's that's good shit that he can just
break it out if he wanted it. Yeah both of them on their own are great too. I had permission to
reproduce the seed bank catalogs that were copyrighted. That is what I was talking about.
So but you have some of those original SSSC types too. I have reproductions. I have forward
productions of a bunch of them. Yeah Durbin DTHF which I got from the Flying Fish Farms
and Durbin had for a fucking god dang month of Sundays and
the those other ones I've only recently had for a few years. Beatrix and the Williams Wonder.
That's something that people should check out the Williams Wonder grows a beautiful like Afghani
dark greens, thick tough, grows just killer nice frosty buds. They're huge.
Grows good outdoors, indoors. Can get a little botrytis because the buds are
orange just thick even if you don't even fry the buds will get huge. So you have air movement or a
roof over them son of a bitch. I did a lot of cold weather resistance testing. That's all I can do and
the fuckers will rot. Yeah I never did get that Williams Wonder. But I recently I've got a couple
people that I just gave them give it back to where they're going you know that was my thing and it
was my favorite and this and that. You know what's interesting about the Williams Wonder is
the man who invent not I'm going to say invented but bred the Williams Wonder is
is nobody really knew him or knew the story. I mean Carl says that they got the strain in New York.
The originator of Williams Wonder made it in Williams Oregon in the late
70s and he used to live in Santa Cruz and he was like 18 in Santa Cruz. He moved up to Williams
but he brought all his Santa Cruz stock which at the time was like Mexican imports and you know
you're only going to get so much shit that was coming in. But he met a grower in Williams who
had a solid line of Afghan and that's all it was called was Afghani and they crossed what he said
was O'Hawken that he brought up from Santa Cruz his original O'Hawken chick. I mean I've seen the
pictures of this f*****g cat at 18. You know how people look he's a badass motherf*****g you know
he almost look like a Santa Cruz weed pirate or something he has pictures for it was a real deal
and then such an honor to meet all cats. He's like 75 now he's still growing. I had to meet him his
name's Dave Stanley. He lives in f*****g Williams Wonder I mean over in Williams Oregon still you
know he's a tough f*****g chopping wood snow gets deep as s**t. He's a tough son of a b*****g but
he grew the Williams again because I gave it back to him first time since he'd lost the seed stock.
He'd go to Hawaii in the 80s you know he'd go to Hawaii and spend a couple months over in the
islands and bring like a few case of weed go to the condo chill out. During that time he had the
seed stock in a jar and f*****g mice got into it killed it all. One of the last trips to Hawaii but
prior trips to that when he was still super into it and having the seed stock in production
he met Willie Nelson over there and him and Willie Nelson got it you know got together hit it off.
They both have f*****g suitcase full of weed trading out their s**t but Willie Nelson
really liked David's weed. They gave him a s**t load of seed and the next year when they met up
in Hawaii f*****g Willie Nelson had a suitcase full of f*****g weed and they break it out and
laugh and he's this is what I call Willie's weed and it was f*****g the Williams Wonder seed
reproduced from f*****g directly direct connection to f*****g Willie Nelson. That's right out of Dave
Stanley's f*****g mouth. He had a ton of stories. I love talk to these old guys. I can get on the phone
I can get on the phone and talk to them and um it's an honor to f*****g hear any of these old stories and
get some information from the old guys because they're not going to be around for very long.
If I didn't hear it nobody would say s**t. His son uh owns Ziploc seeds and he would say that my dad
invented Williams Wonder and I don't think anybody ever f*****g once heard it.
You know my my biggest experience with it has been the crosses that P did with it
with the Williams Wonder and he did a great work with that. S**t crosses good. Oh yeah.
Some of my favorite s**t I've grown from him. I just remade a couple of crosses the Williams Wonder
to my uh vintage blueberry. It was kind of like the opposite of what you know uh P had made a
the Blue Magoo. He used BJ Short's blueberry and
Williams Wonder. I did the opposite male with female backwards deal but it was the SSSC
uh F3 I used uh my vintage blueberry so it is damn good weed. It's different. It's come out
different. I grew this Blue Magoo. It's really killer weed. It grew a certain way and did a
certain thing. Mine does something else but it's it's uh one of the ones I think should be grown.
That's a really nice one. Beautiful and smokes good. I promote the Blue Magoo back cross twice
a lot and I think you would be happy about this but Chris told me the other day that he's about
to release the or maybe he already has the back cross three and he said that back cross is way
heavier on the Williams Wonder side. It really resembles that. He's always working so he puts in
the work and you know I know I know for a fact he did get some of his blueberry is the same blueberry
I use so when we get into the blueberry stuff because the best blueberry that he's ever found
and that's what he claims the best sweetest blueberry he's found is the uh Kinnick Goose
Blueberry. It came from a friend of mine up here. His name is uh Greedy. Oh AK Legends.
AK Legend. Yeah he had the you know about 20 years of that Kinnick Goose Bay Blueberry. It's
right where he lived. It's his house right there at Kinnick Goose Bay and um it became pretty good
uh brand name shit even though it was black market days. It was a sought after brand name.
People went for KGBB. KGB has always been a thing you know killer green but the f*****g KGBB is a
f*****g term that's been locked in up here for a long time. Some people will call it Goose Bay but
there's I've heard that there's a Canadian Goose Bay uh blueberry too so it's very confusing. It
was probably a local blueberry of Canada had a s**t load of blueberries. It has got a lot of blueberries.
In the east coast. I've heard the Kinnick. I've heard the Goose Bay. I've heard just regular
Canadian blueberry. I don't know blueberries over there like the mother of berries was basically
down from like a good blueberry. Oh there's so many good berries like that. I did cross the
mother of berries made of I made a s**t load of that mother of berries and uh 907 Blue Jeans and
907 Blue Jeans is the Kinnick Goose Bay Blueberry to my vintage blueberry. It's probably my best
straight uh go-to sweet blueberry that 907 Blue Jeans. You can just straight get a handful of
girls out of that every time that are going to be you might have to go through five of them and flip
a coin and have a couple people smoke out on them to get a one. I re-veg four or five every time. I'll
pick like all of those. Best one for sure but these four are right there with it so f*****g we'll
re-run it and see what happens. That mother of berries is real interesting. It grows killer big
little nice fruity big donks and it has green leaf and then the calyx is at about six weeks.
They start turning purple inside so the bud turns colors. This is on the vintage? No mother of
berries. Oh on the mother of berries. Just to be straight that's a you know how it's weird how
certain plants have some purple some will have purple and they turn purple like um Hannah um
or say gooey breeder of the the guy uh Hannah Exotics. I mean uh he he'll have purple cord buds
that just are naturally purple that start up at two to three weeks in and these motherf*****s turn
purple from the core on up and then other ones have purple in different ways and they'll have
purple uh petiole purple vein down the middle of the leaf vein and then have um start to purple up
that way later on and some have purple leaf and then you know green inside the whole but it'd be a
purple exterior from maybe photosynthesis or cooling and those purples express one way.
It's so weird how the purple there's probably four or five different expressions in purples.
Some have a purple underskirt some won't have any some will be a purple top and green bottom
some have f*****g purple top and purple bottom. So many variations. That's the best thing about the
cannabis. I get I get crazy about combinations and wanting to bring out the expression so my
mind's like going I'm gonna do this and I'm gonna do this and oh man I can target some s**t but um
it's uh there's so much more can be done. Oh yeah yeah I think one of the best ways that I've ever
heard is when it comes to breeding it's it's an art and you're the painter and you're gonna create
you know within your vision of what you want. I got a good handle on breeding because
my whole life I've just bred animals. I'm at a very very early age I say sixth grade I had
meat rabbit breeding project that was making me money because you know as a kid I was pretty
damned enterprising. I worked I worked and I did s**t to make money but that was one thing I learned
was breeding rabbits right quick on but then through future farmers of American vocational
agriculture courses you know in in school I learned a lot about breeding animals and learned
how to cast great pigs and you know we did that s**t right in class cast great f*****g pigs everybody
got one chance at it and you don't want to bleed your pig to death you got to do that s**t right.
Then I went and did judging you know a little bit of judging as apprentice judge it like a different
state fair uh playing around with it and I learned you know learn all of the cow breeds
all of the chicken breeds all of the pig breeds and back then there was like 40 cows 30 30 f*****g
pigs or 20 pigs and 30 chickens now there's like hundreds of f*****g each stupid so you couldn't
keep up on the breeding but I did American Bulldogs from 87 on I I'd crazy I was I saw my
first in like 84 saw a guy called American Standard Pit Bull biggest baddest f*****g dog
I've ever seen and it wasn't a Pit Bull Terrier there's no Terrier in these dogs and he's in
Oregon he's a native guy American Indian and uh yeah the wicked f*****g Brendle and white
badass patched up Bulldogs and it's like I thought five years I was thinking man I
that's the baddest dog I've ever seen they just call it American Standard Pit Bull
and um 89 I got into researching them in 87 my my one original girl my partner's cousin
he has one of these dogs he had a couple of them called Suds and Scratch and Suds and uh
he's gonna go over to Hawaii did construction work he just like moved his he sent his f*****g
bike over there his hot rod Camaro 68 Camaro and take all his tools he'd work over there six months
at a time he left me his dogs I thought they were they were something else so at the end of that
year I went to I went and targeted American Bulldogs and it's like they're called American
Standard it was once called Bully the Johnson Bulldog line the American Standard or Alan Scott
line and then there was old Southern White lines and then there was Country Bulldog lines and I
realized man they're everywhere they're all over the f*****g place because the Johnson Bulldog has
English Bulldog in it they're a hundred and at the time 140 pound just like bird machine
and um the the other ones are working Bulldogs they'd be catching uh doing cattle cattle herding
pig catching uh straight up utility farm work of every f*****g face shape and form and then
the Country Bulldogs there's Cracker Bulldogs down in f*****g Florida that uh you know that they do
work with these dogs fear Salad Scott the originator of the originator of the standard
Bulldog you do like wild cattle roundups on islands down in Florida swamps and uh use these Bulldogs
for that but I get the dogs and they're a f*****g mess there ain't one of them that's healthy
there have bad hips dysplasia they have entropic eyes uh ectropic eyes bad elbow mange both
demodectic and scarpotic and uh oh my god they're a f*****g mess and so what you understand about
breeding some have like brachycephalic f*****g throats like the Frenchies and the
and the English Bulldogs and um some have clear throats and oh Jesus we weed through this s**t
and have every expression of a dog coming out and uh it was like polyhybrids of polyhybrids
of polyhybrids like the current f*****g scene that is today in cannabis and we try to get
some normality of it I started doing a massive amount of testing for hips and uh skin we got
a lot of long way we went with Penn hip which is the University of Pennsylvania and the OFA
Orthopedic Foundation of Animal my vet at Hillside Wellness Center here he took my money for a lot of
times 200 to 300 tests I think I've done 60 70 tests and I'd get to be involved with it because
I'd be the one that would extract you put the dog inesticize them put them on a ventilator
you got to extract the pen hip is actually a pop that you displace their f*****g hips and you do
this with hundreds of pounds of force you spread them on a table pop their hips out of f*****g
joint measure it then another one where you press them in you put their hips together put your knees
together and press in and then there's another one where you stretch them out lengthwise and
that's an OFA view so through all these combinations of f*****g views and calculations
and four or five different vets determine that the dog's got a rating so I it's pen hip rating
and OFA does rating too there's OFA excellent and s**t there's only like one or two American Bulldogs
ever made the OFA excellent rating so anyway I was I got them up good enough to where I produced
OFA excellent dogs but it wasn't many of them I produced one I got the OFA rating from like 80
percentile which was loose as s**t 80 and 90th percentile loose as s**t dogs going to be crippled
from dysplasia so we got it down to the 10th percentile and we were f*****g jamming all day
we didn't have no more f*****g ectropic eyes and trophia and I still inbreeding I did f*****g
grandfather to granddaughter I did brother half brother to half sister I inbred is the only way
I could clean it up right and I inbred fresh where I didn't want to f*****g you know you don't want to
do straight father a lot of the able terrier guys that have winning champion dogs they are they do
father to daughter and do a ton of inbreeding and ton of it and they lock that s**t down but
you're going to lock down any of your issues so if you had a perfect dog you could do that but
you ain't gonna f*****g do that with the dog that has issues you want to keep a somewhat fresh but
anyway I'd get a coefficiency on my dogs where I like them I'd carry them down to you know big
confirmation shows or um the confirmation show would have protection tournament testing and
training and certification and all this for working dogs or something called the Working
American Bulldog Association and they did titling and testing and it was tons you know Schutzen
there was a PSA these are all protection sports that are hardcore um KNA there's a ton of these
motherf*****s so I'd go down there dogs right off the couch from Alaska and go wild boar hunting
that night because it was in regions like you know the show at Watsonville California and Salinas is
right there that's right the main center of wild boars in California I have friends that are
true dogmen and they're in books about this s**t they're f*****g famous true dogmen they take me
on the biggest ranches in California still to this day I got I got invited to go on on
billionaire's f*****g properties to hunt these pigs I mean this guy's got gate key and key codes for
places where the it's insane what he can get into to go pig hunt I remember you telling me about that
I'd go on to his ranches and pig hunt at night and show up at that confirmation show I'd hunt all
night and uh we'd smack some pigs and I'd get the dog boxes like a rental truck birch rental truck
or whatever you know I'd put the pig on the dog box put the stick in his mouth where the f*****g
tusks are sticking out I'd roll through the dog show at about 11 o'clock it's already rolling
start maybe about 10 getting very active already doing confirmation and all this bullsh**t protection
and all this crap's going on I roll through and every one of those motherf*****s have to turn and
look at that bull on the back of my deal and then I'd run back to the ranch put that thing in the
meat cooler run over to the I never once slept I don't think ever well we'd show back up at the
show with the bulldogs that caught the damn pigs so we've made our mark and the whole thing they've
called me that a**hole from Alaska because I'm Latin I'm not like you know an a**hole I'm just
louder and more I'm on coffee and I like unfiltered unfiltered you know so we we held we put our
mark and I go down to Texas and they might get your a** f*****g kicked in Texas bunch of guys
down there a little bit tougher they ain't gonna take it like California guys so I'd get mouthy
down there and I'd have four or five guys in the talking together in a group and I'm not thinking
I'm gonna have to get into a fight over the s**t but I'd hold my own I'd steal a couple of their
confirmation points where they couldn't champion their dog out and go back to Alaska I did that
same multiple times so I did grand champion dogs out though I made dogs that were good I improved
them enough to where I made dual grand champion dogs I won seven best in shows with one female
um a female congratulations show with a female you're beating the other strain of dogs the
bully dogs that's your class you're beating the next class then you meet beat the best male in
that class then you beat the best male in that show you f*****g made a best in show with a female
seven f*****g times in a row you're you've gone somewhere with the dogs this is like a lot of work
though but that gave me a straight up idea how to give me a lot of help on doing cannabis the
whole time besides breeding pigs too a lot of f*****g pig breeding I go to straight semen farms
just get pigs do all my own AIs so Alaska saw Alaska's pig stock sucked did you ever hit up
that guy I told you about I tried to yesterday that uh it didn't come up I'm gonna send you
that profile I put in the farmer underscore fly and nothing came up there's like the fly farmer
and the flying farmer oh my god I'll send you his profile I'll make sure you guys get connected
I'm looking for this guy yeah I gotta get me some damn Shetland chickens he's a good friend of mine
he's a good good guy you guys are good just unlucky as hell because that's a near extinct
to strain a chicken um my main interest in breeding cannabis a lot of it is a one-time
thing I happen to get my hands on somebody collected it and f*****g whatever some of it
very rare like the guy's collecting s**t in the pollen 77 I get my hands on it I'm gonna f*****g
preserve it if they don't come out pure to itself I'm gonna cross it to
something they would express good with it or whatever but that's how I am if I hear
Shetland chicken is almost extinct in the world it's a blue egg layer which genetics originally
comes from South America by way of Spanier catchiestobores going up into northern Europe
this this genetics finally ends up because the only blue eggers in the world is the Shetland
chicken and the f*****g cream leg bar and that's like a Sussex England um but yeah
you're hooking me up if I get me as if I have Shetland chickens this year I'll probably have my
chicken fix I'll be done with chickens for I don't know exactly what he's got but I know his
his main focus is chicken chickens and pigs and when you said that name the other day I've heard
it before and I think he'd be the only person that ran that by me yeah I ordered up 15 f*****g
cream leg or opal leg bars this morning that's the one of the I mean they just came into America in
like 11 a lot of these chicken strains have never come to America they had been banned from
importation and a lot of them are f*****g Dutch German English and Greenfire Farms is one that
brought in most of these really killer lines the French Marons and the leg bars now they're
getting distributed everywhere it's kind of like the elite cannabis but one person finds it develop
it gets the word out and it spreads out each person that gets it it's not on lockdown they
do whatever they want with it so some people would bootleg it at quarter of the price or give it out
or whatever so the chickens have come that way you know five thousand dollar chicken a few years
ago is now uh you can get a thirty dollar set of hatching eggs on ebay f*****g funny as s**t yeah
well let's reroute really quick back to the blueberry because I don't know about you but
I'm about to light up right now I'm gonna finish that f*****g other half of my blueberry joint
I never asked is that what you were smoking on and which blueberry was it
an older blueberry oh yes yes the one that we can yeah gotcha
gladly send it to you you f*****g grow it and love it dude f**k yeah um I am about to light up
right now one of the collaborations that you did with uh it's the goose bay blueberry crossed into
that grapefruit we were just talking about oh my god yeah yeah that's wonderful he made a couple
he made a couple of cool crosses like the uh that that that uh that gooseberry blueberry to his um
cheese bx so that motherf*****r looking through it right now maybe it'll put off that blueberry
cheesecake uh because this cheese is really good s**t I know that he worked hard to get on
and working on that but the blueberry is a gift blueberry is a gift you f*****g get that s**t
sweet good a** blueberry that f*****g tenant newspaper blueberry you're not gonna
you're not the f*****g around you can target it it definitely added to the grapefruit in a good way
I'm curious could that like the grapefruit web of his was a super killer grapefruity uh
deal and uh when I crossed it to grapefruit badass from ice river genetics
the um it's a f*****g killer plant still not as 45 day fast or 50 day fast as the
pure grapefruit web but it had f*****g double that grapefruit flavor so this one still retained the
grapefruit but that blueberry added so much bag appeal and color to it almost added juice I'd
like to think it added juice flavor to it well and that's the other thing is that blueberry it didn't
get rid of the grapefruit but it did accent it like it's definitely got a heavy blueberry there
but it's playing along with the grapefruit really nice got to be more grapefruit like what I was
saying earlier I'm gonna be uh this afternoon I'm gonna go grab a f*****g 20 year old cut of uh
pure island sweet skunk oh yeah maybe talk about that the grapefruit web uh grapefruit
badass crosses that I got all uh or the you know bx a little bit on the older I had that island
sweet skunk one time it was uh it's hard to manage plant it grows six inches a day I actually grew it
in the greenhouse for at first when hit the eight foot mark I realized I was f*****g so um I flowered
the damn thing to nl1 trying to control these genetics on that runaway b**ch and uh nl1 will
generally squat everything or put 50 or more in that category it'll like it'll show its influence
really strong it's a fairly well inbred afghani so the island sweet skunk it overran the nl1 so
wow started to play 25 seeds two or three days ago of that island sweet skunk nl1 it's been a
while since I've encountered it wasn't that island sweet skunk pretty f*****g short plant to begin
with but it branched out pretty bushy I don't know about that this is old original genetics here
and it's yeah beyond my time it's it uh it's known he's saying it's the probably the wildest
thing he f*****g houses other things that were like that for me were really good was uh
like oh seven I got a hold of uh space jill that um I grew also chocolate the original d line that
was it was all nice line I had f*****g space jill and d line and I'm indoors growing this
s**t and I read the write-up so that's one of the few times in the world I get on those
forums you know I've researched this and I gotta have that then I go grab it and they were warning
that if you don't the chocolate it was like they said four foot minimum height and don't grow it
under lights or you get overrun and s**t so I started at 18 inches it's gonna be great well
solid went to four f*****g foot it is a serious big long cola biomass not out of control but man
it is what they said 100% but the space jill it grows six inches a day if you had it tuned in and
it was feeding and had root zone you could dwarf it for sure and try to keep it a little bit slow
but that's what I call a biomass producer it's almost an out of control f*****g indoor plant you
you have a heart and she is funny she's trying to reproduce right now or go back to any
of her original space jill closest she can to vic hi's uh gift that that they had picked up so
she's running through her um was um a few packs of it actually left I used to wholesale for them
and I've bought hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of f*****g packs so I was just running the s**t
out of their gear just because I was getting it you know that wholesale and I could just run
through it she's trying to reproduce her original space queen or space jill right now the space bomb
that's what she's going through packs a space bomb which was the last space jill production so if
anybody has original ace jill packs or original old old old f*****g space queen you know kick that
s**t to her that'd be a pretty helpful out a lot man that's good weed that original space jill was
f*****g damn good you're looking for space jill not space queen or is it the same thing either
one well most you know the space dude the male version of space queen that's what f*****g like
all of his breeders produced everything came out of that one f*****g deal the original
space jill seeds I got was like the f*****g f1 right off f1 ish or whatever the s**t was fire
it was like different you know we changes and everybody breeds it gonna get a slightly different
expression two or three environments later it's not the f*****g same and then they never kept a
clone ever all they would do is grow from seed every single generation because they didn't have
room to keep the clones so it definitely no I'm not gonna see generational shift but it's f*****g
changed so original space jill was a f*****g good product that's some of the things I crossed
back in like 07 and 08 was like I made tropal oak which was you know just d line and space jill
it was like that d dairy ain't gonna like you know really good strong killer uh tasty look good
nice I would love to go through that that chocolate trip one of those old ones like that
the chocolate any time you mention chocolate I'm gonna f*****g get your local look you want to
catch a fish you put chocolate on that damn hook because there ain't enough chocolate in the world
I tried that escobar's uh chocolate was that the chocolate trip was escobars somebody send me a
pack of that I f*****g tried it wasn't germ it wasn't germ for me it was really old it's just
so disappointed I'm doing some chocolate tie right now I mean I gotta I have a few pictures
of it I'm sure that's what I'm getting mixed up is the chocolate tie we were we did go through the
chocolate I never got to grow the chocolate yeah there's not enough good chocolate tie
chocolate tie I want one that's like the one when I I smoked a lot of pot when I was very young say
uh 10 years old because there was like no there was a guy around back then people were just so
different until it was like people on the radio with like the eagles and f*****g people were like
chill it was so much different but a guy was getting a bunch of ounces we didn't call it
ounces of weed they call it lids he's buying lids of weed have a weed de-seed it de-stem it and roll
joints from and I was like at like 10 years old I had very nimble fingers very f*****g good at it
he would give funny he was using those the old zigzag wheat papers which were yellow he would
he would tell everybody that nobody nothing causes cancer except the paper and the and the thing and
he would say that wheat papers didn't cause cancer it's a f*****g guy so anyway it's five dollars a
lid and ten dollars a lid or you know import weed which was generally brick some of it wasn't super
compressed some was but they um I would roll the s**t out of it where was it coming from at that
time for you I think at this point that was in Oregon so okay it was just I don't know where the
f**k it would have been coming from when I was in Washington a little bit I could direct I knew where
it was coming from there's a lot of Mexican imports straight through the Columbia River when I was in
Oregon I don't know where they didn't came from I was right at when I started getting into it I was
right at that time where most of it was Mexican but we had just started getting some like good
green buds some kind of yeah it was different well we never saw that back then this was the pure
original f*****g terraquadish type of old f*****g s**t Mexican to have to have dirty pencil crap in
it and wasn't good but it was cheap it was like yeah when listen this is like gotta be a 8 78 or
something is and I was smoking that I would keep here's what the deal was he'd give me like two
joints if I rolled up like 30 and I'd get about get about 30 joints out of a out of one of them
lids so I was rolling the s**t he'd like go grab his 60 joints and go give me a couple of them so
me and my friend would like go smoke it it was such poor f*****g weed I don't even know that it
really got us high you get about as high as f*****g tobacco because I got super I got spun out from
tobacco at that point hard so I'd say it was equal to some tobacco high and I didn't enjoy it
I've got I've got to ask you a question back then way beyond my time were you smoking the seeds in
your joints no I knew to clean it out that's why that guy was having me roll this because he didn't
want to deal with the f*****g amount of work it was to f*****g dc the lid of that weed you know
right no seed where seeds were give you a straight up f*****g headache and it'd be
you know popping and fizzing and yeah no I tried to smoke f*****g seeds at one or two times
desperation as a child thinking after I already knew what weed was without a weed thought I could
go to get high off the seeds and tried to smoke it that's how you know at 10 11 it's like I realized
that oh my god it's like oil pure oil and bark right all you you can't do it but I had been
smoking those crappy joints and I'm babysitting it's funny it's not this isn't about 80s and about
78 I'm babysitting my mother's friends children and I think I'm about 12 years old maybe I'm
about 12 yeah um but they had some weed I know they're not they're bikers and um back then bikers
were pretty hardcore people but they had some weed I can call it tie bud and it was on a f*****g stick
it was like on a actual literal bamboo stick laced with like the f*****g string from the whole
length of the main stem the the um apical stem was like hemp string basically and that's what
that s**t was all bound up with so they let they tell me I could smoke some weed they knew I was
smoking my mom was pretty liberal because she that's how I ended up it was her friend that I
was rolling all the joints from and then you know they would go out on a Saturday night go to some
live jams at some country f*****g bars and s**t and she's like well you can smoke a joint if you want
and the s**t would just never get me high anyway I'm babysitting to these people they say well
here's a little bit of um but if you want to smoke it so untied it I untied the s**t I crumbled it up
I rolled the f*****g joint took about three hits and it hits me is but one of the first thing hit
me is the taste it was original real chocolate time it actually had f*****g like licorice um
chocolate leather it was f*****g a delicious just almost like an incense type of a flavor um
and then that weed hit me I don't remember two to three hours f*****g of the whole f*****g event
I should have never been um taken care of f*****g these people are crazy if they let some f*****g
oh watch my kids and watch they didn't care about their f*****g kids because I literally lost
there's a time portal I lost three hours aliens could have f*****g grabbed me that out that three
hours I don't know because I wasn't but I f*****g never then I got high you know from then on that
trigger it triggered in me that weed made me high after that so I knew what levels of of the strength
was but it's weird some of the times at first if you smoke it really does not affect you though
the first time I smoked I didn't get high at all yeah but a long time ago it was said s**t weed I
think if a f*****g as a uh sixth grader gets a hold of the mac right now I think they got high
right I think they f*****g got out of school but smoked one hit of that s**t and they f*****g
went to the shed and they found him sleeping in the shed if I can you know that's that's a
difference in what we've had that little bastard just looks me in the eye and says I didn't feel
nothing man oh funny s**t no I the whole reason I asked behind that is because uh one day we were
talking about I don't I don't even remember who was involved but my old man was around
and I said I remember some of that first stuff that we were buying it was Mexican stuff we call
it merch and uh we'd put it on a paper plate grind it up you know and uh just kind of tap the
back of the plate and let the seeds fall out from the weight and my old man he's about your
generation he goes f**k we just rolled that s**t and smoked it holy s**t yeah
oh it happens yeah we have so much seed weed that me and my partner it's a running joke with us that
we miss one and uh if you take the drag and you start to know it's starting to burn you'll
instantly know and you just like get it puffing just a tiny bit more and make sure it's like
scorching and then just pass it to that motherf**ker yeah you're about to get that firecracker
true story here listen 17 Bernadino my buddy Falcon Falconer is showing me around and meet
me to people I don't know I don't know anybody about industry or strength or nothing and he
brings me over to f**king JJ and f**king Mr. Soul we're sharing a booth I didn't know JJ and didn't
know um sour diesel or nothing he knew JJ because this guy this guy bought 100,000 plus worth of
f**king packs from all of these breeders he'd get like pre-drops and s**t so he brings us me and
AK Rizzo and over to uh JJ's booth and introduce and he's like oh you want to smoke a joint he rolls
f**king joint of sour diesel and about and we're hitting it like you know four of us five of us and
uh about the second round man big old pop goes off the f**king seed bursts and like a volcano and
it's like you all laugh and this kind of s**t you know and it's like oh my god I'm sorry about that
guys let me roll another it's like no no you did work yeah I got to taste it before I f**king did
that s**t we walked off and we were laughing a little bit and s**t and just like super comical
but blunt my I don't remember if it was f**king Falconer or f**king Rizzo he goes pop dog
oh damn it's funny but I had never smoked that sour diesel before that f**king 17 right then and
there I got to smoke his I didn't know s**t about diesels before that that's awesome I only smoked
a few different diesels I've tried a bunch of Taco and AJ's and uh Albany uh what the f**k might
have been another one but I had never been a big diesel fan before but it's pretty good if you have
a have that as like one of 10 or 15 in a jar say you're going out fishing and then you smoke like
five or one type and then you just want to go off a whole different scale you break out a diesel
joint it's a whole different thing diesels are by far one of my favorite types I just the way that
they affect me um but it's kind of a trade-off because a lot of diesels can grow like motherf**ker
so they're a b**ch yep I don't know if you ever got the chance to try P's huckleberry diesel
who which one Chris is huckleberry diesel no no no um that was amazing amazing
half a dozen things of his pineapple fields the caramel all that one's good or um was it
caramel haze caramel cough oh caramel cough yes that's why I meant haze because it had the f**king
confidence um you know the blue magoo he gave me a bunch of s**t when we first met I grew it the
best thing I grew I think and liked a lot the most was the the platinum huckleberry cookies the
original the platinum huckleberry cookies very original f**king incarnation I got one that's so
ogkb nothing like any of the others in the packs you would get that out of the f1 for sure you'd
get a good one if you found it it was a good one and it changed a lot after that a lot of people
did different selections that's so weird how one pack can put off nine of one expression and one of
another that guy keeps it that whole line is that line and the other go do different s**t
like the one I keep right now we call it the Kirkland and uh uh because it's f**king my
buddy captain Kirk f**king new houses it all the time but it's a f**king mainstay go-to for
f**k at least five years it's f**king such a consistent good uh I was down there carry that
s**t down to emerald and it'd be what you know I might carry three types there's all the whatever
at time period in the world it was with gorilla glue f**king wave or og wave or cookie wave or
gelato wave or whatever whatever it is today you would walk through that smoke cloud it's just
cloud it's just calm and a s**t so emerald about 18 or whatever I'm carrying that purple
uh I was carrying purple hindu kush a good one that uh I got from uh I'm from the nature farm
there's a f**king killer old shasta old old old mid mid 20s old cut of purple hindu kush but
that would hold its own and that uh this is f**king platinum muckleberry cookies it hold its own
f**k I'd roll I'd have pre-rolled joints to that s**t and we'd be meeting strangers being super
social like being at some phone drop or whatever and everybody's over there doing their thing and
we'd be like sitting down chilling smoking joint and a stranger would come along we're
just meeting and talk to them and they'd take a rip off that s**t and they would be like
whoa what what is that that's not like everybody else it's not the f**king
business I know that's Christmas platinum muckleberry cookies it has that just that
really unique certain taste I'm sure there's slightly different variances because he we used to
two or three years later got a v3 pack of the same thing and then he told me it was
like way slower veg way faster bud way more huckleberry and he was right it's slowest
veggie in the f**king world we got a bunch of like trifoliate type of growth out of it so it was like
a super squat biomass pig if you didn't like take off leaves and take off leaves and we ran
that thing two or three runs and they were all the same super slow super fast um flower and
it wasn't nothing like the original that we keep it's so good though that thing there the people
up here that are friends of his the east frog botanical gardens I think they consistently run
a super killer cut of that that platinum muckleberry cookies of his also if they have a
rec market down in Holbrook it's a little down 240 miles south of here at the end of the penide
peninsula and um a real small community and that's one of the places they grow and uh have dispensary
so they got the market handle growing chris's s**t that's almost all exclusively what they grow
really really cool that they do that and then uh because homer has a lot of f**king dynasty here
I can f**king honestly say that you go to a dispensary at home or you're f**king buying
chris's s**t oh yeah that's the end of the road that's like the capital halibut of the world this
f**king town is known as the capital how I mean the halibut capital of the world it's called the
end of the road or end of the bit because there's like it's the end of the f**king peninsula there
you drive right out to the ocean to the on the spit towards the straight water but I don't know
I haven't been to their uh I haven't been to their operation I know f**king shiv the husband of the
couple that runs it he's a boating fool like us the f**king fishing ocean killing fools oh yeah
so a lot of my patrons have been asking about your skunk cabbage
do you have any new plans to do anything with that
yes and no I've done it for a long time I think I made that straight up in 08 so it's what is now
like f**king what is that 12 years or 14 years or some sh** I had it a long f**king time but I
did just break out some recent frozen uh frozen seeds that actually didn't have skunk cabbage
written on it it still said uh f**king crazy train and d line so they're one of the first generations
I don't know what it is f something I don't even know what the f**k it was but they're prior to
five I know that I started calling it skunk cabbage at five and um I used to call it a1 but
I already had too many a1s you know when I'm doing 50 or so feeds I'll go a through z and then one
through whatever and then when I find the pheno search I have all that sh** written down that
classify them as what's best one through five and f**king funnier than sh** but two or three times
the number a1 ends up popping up as being the best keeper pheno so you can't keep calling sh** a1
and f**k there's other a1s in the world Bodhi has maybe a haze but you know but Bodhi I think has a
haze called a1 or something so people confuse mine and they go what where's this and that and that
no no my a1's f**king this it's just uh it was a number but number six runs in my f**king lines too
I've got four different things that ended up being number six you know my Americana the um
f**king Ike's Afghani the GST which was um originally I call it Jackson's gift originally
strain I got from a 83 year old dude here he's still alive he's in bad health right now got
into a car accident and uh been a year in the hospital with a broken back and then
now he's wheelchair bound but he's still growing the f**king GST the guy that originally
produced this with his old crew pretty uh pretty tough old cat but he's he's going downhill I'd
like to think he doesn't f**king uh if he can pull out of this sh** his goal is to get out of that
wheelchair hell yeah he's a good he's a good old cat him and his guys just like us would have been
with a your little local crew they had a local strain then they f**king went through it and they
would decide what was what and they they picked that thing after breeding for years and they all
stuck with the number six that's what he calls he just calls it the number six I got it can you get
me a cut of that number six and like yeah you know what I can bring one over in a f**king second for
you old Jackson oh named Al Jackson but I call him Jackson yeah he's he's a good old guy just
like if you don't hear some of the old f**kers like that it's gone he told me a bunch of cool
sh** about Anchorage um retro grow days because him and me he's 35 f**k he's like 30 full 30 years
older than me so he's seen some sh** f**k yeah he went through about everything those 83 year olds
if you're still doing it and got a clear mind and sh** they can tell you what was what right
went through some hard sh** and some and some good sh** one of our patreon shiggity flips
you wanted to know how is your big skunk and is RKS still on the planning list
big skunk I haven't um do tons of sh** with big skunk I have it
preserved in a couple of forms and it's available pretty much pure big skunk just like it was um
it was a commercial type of strain you know some of them older sh** was made for uh
original commercial it's not going to be super strong and you can find killer ones in it
some of that stock that was older freezer stock I four or five years ago sent that sh** to uh
Jackson to mean gene and he reproduced a bunch of it outdoors and he the way he's so meticulous he
listed you know when he breeds he grabbed all the ones he liked male wise put them on whatever
females which were going to be whatever but he listed what their preferences were for uh
exhibition of sh** and uh one or two were like he said p.m was everywhere f**k just stick some
plants other strains and and even these bad p.m but one or two wouldn't even get p.m and then he
you know noted that sh** for me so I was able to breed another generation out in my greenhouse
from the ones that said p.m resistance and they were man it made a hell of a difference because
big skunk was a p.m pig if you grew it indoors I'm not p.m but f**k you get arthritis really easy
you get a big thick nice bud and at six weeks in you're happy as sh** and at eight weeks in the
f**ker wilts a little bit and browning and you realize you're just sloughed right off the f**king
plant before you even care so we'd kill it at seven weeks early every f**king time we just had
to kill it early but yeah big skunk is just like a mainstay it's in a cross that I like a whole lot
of marikana which was our original nl5 and I crossed the big skunk nl1 that's americana's
f**king killer because I worked with it I don't know we had 15 000 f**king seeds of it and still
have my partner still has a jar of the original 1990 f1 marikana he's the one that named it because
it was like a joke it was a big group of 300 of them f**king seeds and we culled off all of the
males so we had about 150 or 120 I'd say real nice females told every male we're just trying to make
a nice room of f**king killer weed and uh you know the story five weeks in
start seeing seeds every f**king where I was like what the f**k looking for herms
no herms get about you know 50 plants back there's a little shorty that f**king grew up right next to
f**king one of them girls a little spindly single stocked f**king male that uh came in late did his
f**king thing polluted every girl of 100 120 of them f**kers at home so when we just shucked it
out we got the killer ash and uh it was really f**king good hash too because I have photos of
the hash and um I was able to share it with jack hair f**king steve hagar and f**king jack hair up
here damn here's a good story listen here's a good story I'm going to try to not f**king talk about
1 million hours on this but they're promoting we got that emperor wears no clothes of I mean a book
that jack had written and uh steve hagar the editor of high times and him are on tour promoting the
book and they have a symposium up here even at our at our performing arts center downtown this
full-blown s**t and uh everybody went down and f**king got to listen to the show and listen to
him talk and explain the f**king how bad we have been f**ked on hemp and from the beginning uh how
the whole thing went down the the benefits that hemp could do the world I'm like he's selling this
s**t and we knew already we're like we're nuts dude we're like we are known we're pissed we're
like revolutionists about this s**t back in f**king the 80s so we are um we're all behind them anyway
this is like 89 in the summer of 89s and uh they get to go visit different gardens and f**king
play around and anyway I give them a half ounce of the hash which was near bubble hash of that
that production from the americana crop and uh we didn't call it americana back then but he uh
he went on his deal a couple days meeting other people we met about like third day and he's like
I didn't think he'd ever smoked that s**t it was super expansive and it's super f**king strong so
I thought it would last the whole time and he's going to smoke other people's weed he comes on the
third day we met up he's completely out of it asked if he can get any more I don't know how he
f**king smoked that s**t because it's really it was that strong but his tolerance was truly f**king
insane because he smoked all the other f**king best weed that people were displaying for him
and all that I gave him of that f**king killer hash and uh it was amazing but we got to uh
there's an there's an initiative to illegalize marijuana in 1975 what happened was a lawyer
named Raven intentionally was arrested with a couple joints to go to jail and then fight this
in court that he had the right to smoke pot so this big battle goes out he wins in local court
goes to the state supreme court and wins and because of that what the deal was they they ruled
that Alaskans have the right to privacy and it would override a privacy in their own home this is
it would override a suspected illegality the right to have privacy in your home would override the
fact that a cop thinks you're smoking pot indoors so they write it in the constitution that it is
legal to f**king possess marijuana and they wrote it up as 16 plants and four ounces in your own home
you can do this in 1975 that became a law up here so you couldn't transport it so you still get a
my my mothel any s**t for transportation but a misdemeanor fine wasn't an infraction it was
an amid a misdemeanor so uh it's still pretty big trouble you could get like f**king 30 to 90 days
or something in thousand dollar fine it was pretty hairy s**t so and bigger the worst and
anything over 16 plants and four ounces was turning into trouble so um in 1990 a bunch of
really stodgy people that are starting to move up here from other places decided it should be illegal
to have marijuana they don't want the s**t and they think you know they don't want their f**king
children there so they get a initiative going ballot initiative enough people to sign it to
to outlaw marijuana in alaska so yeah we're as patriots you know we all had tri-cornered hats
and we're like at the time you look in the 80s late 80s high times this was going on in Ann Arbor
Michigan and s**t there's all these people that are like protesting and let's make marijuana legal
everybody's wearing tri-cornered hats so that was like our symbol and kind of our moniker and uh
Jack is up here promoting his book Emperor Wears No Clothes and he decides to help with
you know that kind of help with the fight on the initiative which was going to be in
the November vote to make it illegal to vote but uh I mean make it illegal to smoke but at that
point in time uh we were all rallying and there was a group of guys from the states which did
more harm than good because they were all the type that wanted to use wheat paste and post flyers
vote no on the initiative and they did this s**t around town on private property on walls on
electrical you know uh big electrical boxes that are like city owned and uh fence posts and fences
and posts like light posts they're wheat paste and it's impossible to f**king get off so they
did this echo they're like doing almost uh environmental uh terrorism s**t damage more
harm than good the people go oh look at this they're yeah I'm gonna vote no well the owner
of that f**king fence that tried to scrape the f**king wheat paste flyer off his s**t
is pissed f**king off so yeah it was super it became negative more than anything so but
during that little rally point we all of us as a huge group got to go down to the Denny's
there's a there's a there's a couple Denny's up here but there's one on Bergdorf street
it's still there today it's like you know regular Denny's they have a f**king big main
like area and then the back convention room and uh we got to go have our meeting or whatever the
f**k it was in the convention room and somebody at one point decides to f**king start smoking
and uh it turned into a full-blown f**king smoke fest in the Denny's restaurant they they served
us not we kept oh no they kept ordering we know a stoner so we ordered every f**king thing on the
f**king menu and they kept just letting us do it and it's it was crazy it's like the first known
indoor smoke out that it's probably ever happened f**king up here for real the dangerous story for
you to tell no it is it's so it's so normal and good no but at one point the it was leaking out
you know every time they enter through the conference room doors the smoke was just belching
out into the f**king main area and at one point after about three hours customers were complaining
that the f**king smoke was just f**king them up and they shut us down on the smoke so but it's the
it's an epic f**king thing that happened right there we were rallying and it was all like for
the cause we ended up losing the initiative f**king to end the story it goes illegal 1990 the f**king
s**t goes illegal illegal to smoke marijuana after f**king since 1975 we've always had the right just
to do to grow your own and smoke your own so it's like super illegal at this point f**king snitchy
a** neighbors and people that know what you used to do are going to f**king turn you in
and the dea is up here thick as f**k this green merchant just went off and it's still
fun going on they're embedded like hell so it's scary f**king times in alaska and uh somebody f**king
sues that it is illegal to change the f**king constitution with an initiative ballot that goes
to court and f**king they reverse the initiative so we party we rally f**king alaska is 100%
f**king legal again to smoke and to shut those f**king whiny you know people that basically
hockey moms and call them now they were like soccer moms they came up here and you got to call
them hockey moms when she moved up here so but it was the that's who made that initiative and just
like evil marijuana evil marijuana well f**k it's a normal f**king non-f**king harmful thing besides
the medical aspects is insane so weird though how the evolution of of alaska has gone
that concludes the first part of the epic three-hour podcast with ak beanbrains i hope you
took away from this as much as i did you'll learn something along the way and you had a lot of fun
listening if you're a fan of the show you want to help support it come check us out on patreon
for only ten dollars a month you can get behind the scenes content extra bonus content from past
previous and future episodes game day giveaways seed giveaways and more come check us out on
patreon you can find us at www.patreon.com forward slash doc underscore calis i hope to see you there
and we'll catch up soon until next time this is doc out saying good night and grow right i'll catch
you all on the next one
