Good morning everybody and welcome to the Calix crew podcast. We have an
amazing episode for you today. We've got Canna Queen Genetics on the line all the
way over from the East Coast. A female breeder that's here to promote herself
to talk about some of her genetics, her history with the plant, and her history
with breeding cannabis. Before we get into the episode I want to give a quick
shout out Stoner Days Apparel. You guys can go over to shop.stonerdays.com and
use code CALIX that's all caps C-A-L-Y-X at checkout for a whopping 20% off your
order. Shout out to Stoner Days Apparel. Now let's just jump right into it.
We've got Canna Queen on the line. How you doing Canna Queen? Hey Doug, I'm good. How are you?
Good, very good. We got a beautiful fucking day over here. The weather is
starting to heat up. It's amazing outside. Got some Chernobyl in me this morning.
Did you get an opportunity to smoke? Yes, absolutely. I always make time for that.
Nice and what were you smoking on this morning? I'm smoking on none other than the Queen White Haze.
The Queen White Haze. I've heard a lot about the Queen White Haze. You know what
Wisco Tree Fire was telling me about it. You sent us over a pack of it. I'm
stoked to pop those, but Miss C got in on those zombie unicorn right off the bat.
Hell yeah, I love zombie unicorns. There's one other garden that's been growing. It's definitely more in the
testing phases, but it's a fun strain. Nice. So I wanted to talk to you a little
bit about your history with this plant. When did all this come about? When did
you first start smoking? I think I first started, I actually remember the very
first time I smoked. I was smoking on an abandoned school bus in this fishing town.
Everybody was like all like, you know, their eyes were chink and like
they were giggling. I was like, what is wrong with these people? I realized that, you know, I guess maybe, you know, that first time you don't get high. I don't know, maybe I just didn't realize that I was high. I don't know.
I didn't get high my first time either. Yeah, yeah, like it's a common thing I think, but then it's like how can you not?
Like what is wrong with me? Maybe your endocannabinoid system is like so empty
because you've never, you know, fulfilled it that that first high goes straight into
your receptors. I don't know, it's kind of crazy to think about. Yeah, or those receptors don't know how to
react to what's going on for the first time, you know? Yeah. Could be, could be. Yeah, so my first time, nope, didn't get high. Second time, I slept for like 18 hours.
Nice. Do you remember what you were smoking on? Actually, back then, I was just like, it was like the
Crip or, you know, BC Bud or, you know what I mean? So we never really knew what we were smoking, but it was like right in the air where the cannabis started changing from like the Mexican brickweed all the time to like actual like Christmas tree buds and the mango stuff. And, you know, that's when it started like really blooming.
That's about the time that I started as well. Like when you start going from green bud to actually having some names like white rhino and stuff like that. I remember when we actually started calling it names other than, oh, this is chronic,
this is Mersh, you know, and I think the West Coast Mersh is the equivalent of the East Coast. What'd you say? Crip? Yeah, like the Crippy, the, what was that?
They called it Hydro or Chronic, you know what I mean? There was just like a blanket name for them. Yeah, we called it either Hydro or Chronic. That whole, that whole Crip thing, the Crippy, that seems to be an East Coast term. I'm just not familiar with it, but I'm hearing more and more of you talking about it.
I was raised in Florida, so it was definitely more of an East Coaster thing. But a lot of people, it started moving, you know, it started moving everywhere. It's in New York and California and stuff like that, so. Nice. So how old were you at this point? I think I was probably about 15, turning 16, something like that.
Okay, okay. So at what point did you go from smoking cannabis to saying, I want to grow this for myself? So I do have to rewind a little bit. A little bit after I started smoking cannabis, I started realizing that some things were changing as far as like my brain chemicals. I wasn't, I wasn't as, I don't want to say sad, but like I had a pretty tough childhood and I went through a lot and it wasn't the best home life.
And so every time I smoked, it really felt like it was doing something different. Like it was touching my soul and like, I just, I didn't smoke for the same reasons everybody else did. Yeah. Like I was gonna like be around my friends, but yeah, we're getting high. Like let's get high. But like really, I knew it was doing something different for me. So the minute I had the chance to pop a seed, I did. I think it was like 14 when I popped my first seed and tried to grow it outside in Florida.
And I don't know if you know about Florida, but it's humid, it's hot, it's, you know, hurricanes. And so, you know, the winds blew really hard, blew my little tree over and I was so depressed and sad about it, but that was my little first experience. And then I made when I was about 18 and we moved away from Florida and we traveled the entire country. So, yeah, so I kind of like put that on the back burner, but we ended up landing in Colorado at Fort Carson and he actually got kicked out of the plane.
Out of the army for testing positive for cannabis. So he got a general, yeah, it was really stuck because it was our livelihood. We lived on post. Anyway, long story short, he got kicked out. We ended up staying in Colorado and I'm like, oh yeah, like I'm going to start growing. So my friend's husband, he was a military veteran and he was like, he was already growing. So every time I go to her house, I'm like, can I see it? Can I like just see it? I just want to look at it.
Right.
And he had a bunch of seeds reserved, saved up from his, you know, his dad from like eighties to the nineties. So we had like elephant stomper and strawberry cough and wifi. Oh gee. AK 47 destroyer. There was some really good classic ones in there. And so yeah, that's a blue dream. So yeah, that's like the strains that I started up with my first row.
Very cool. So you're growing at a young age. Um, you started smoking at a young age. How long did it take you while you were growing until you decide, you know, I want to make this step in making some types of cannabis that work for me that I can produce for myself under the name canning.
So this isn't a story that I get to share very often. This is a story that it's actually literally what sparked my joy to do more than just grow. And I'll try to like make it short. It's kind of a long story, but my neighbor, he was a retired, not retired, but he was kicked. He was medically discharged from the army. He had PTSD and he had a lot of pain and he had epilepsy. And so he was having probably about seven seizures a day on a good day.
And there are 25 years old and I just watched this and him and his wife and like they were trying to start their life out and they were just stumbling and falling and um, they were smoking spice at the time, which at the time it was, you know, I had been killing people. And so I'm like, he can't be smoking that he has epilepsy. What is wrong with you? Like, that's probably why he's having seven seizures a day, you know?
So I grew a clone from that said, uh, military veteran. That was my friend's husband. It was ace of spades. And I realized that I didn't get me that high, but I like, I knew, I knew what that meant, you know, like that it had CBD factors to it. So I offered him an ounce from like one of my very first harvest, like real good harvest. Like I had a thousand watt Raptor eight inch inline fan. Like I had the whole shebang, you know,
you know, that was at the time, like that was, those are the shit. Yeah. So I handed his wife an ounce of the ACEs phase and I said, tell him just to like put the spice down, just give this a chance, you know? And it probably took about a whole month for her to come to me and be like, dude, he quit smoking the spice. He started smoking the ACEs, you know, the, the weed. She's like, he's in 43 days without a seizure.
I'm like, no way. Like literally that I knew that wasn't my strain, but I knew I wanted to have that pride from something I created.
Medicine that you created for a patient. So it doesn't matter if it was your type or not. It was medicine that you produced that you made and you help somebody with it. That's the, there's nothing better.
Yeah, it was the most amazing feeling that I've ever had. So yeah, he, he ended up, you know, getting a quality of life back. Unfortunately they divorced and she went on her way, but there was a lot of damage done between, you know, before he, he healed himself, which you change, you know, and things change, but I see him today and he's, he's healthy and happy and it's just crazy. So yeah, that was, that was the fire that got started in Cana Queen soul.
So was that one of the first plants that you bred with?
Actually, no, I didn't breed with that. I got picked up by a state breeder in Spain. I'm not going to name drop, but like he, he saw my pictures on Instagram and he wrote me and he was like, dude, he's like, that's awesome. And I'm like, no, it's not a dude. It's a she. And he was like, what? He was like, I want you on my team. He's like, I ain't never seen a girl grow like this before. Like what? So he was like, I want to teach you how to breed.
And I was like, dude, I just got, you know, good, good at this growing thing. And you know, I don't know if I'm ready for that. And he was like, I'm backed up and I just need you to F2. He's like, hell I'll help you make the selections. But he's like, I need you to F2 this CBD straight. And then I was like, Oh, here's my chance. You know, it was like destined, you know, like that is a CBD straight.
But in the door for sure.
He got half the seed stock and then I got half the seed stock and you know, he made a good chunk of money off of it. And we parted ways and he hooked me up with another breeder. And then I realized that I, you know, these guys were using me to breed behind the scenes for them with no name. And I was like, Nope, this is my time. Like I'm going to step forward. And I ended up, you know, partnership with the other, the second breeder and then Canada Queen genetics was born in 2018.
That's awesome. And at this time when you were getting into it, what, what was some of your main intentions on breeding cannabis? Was it all CBD related?
Actually, no, that was really my only CBD project. I started going more towards a very high THC. You know, it was what the hype was. I was trying to go like towards the mark where the market was going. And I had already bred under a different breeders name, a bunch of really killer strains. So ended up when we broke up, I say broke up because it was literally like when our partnership broke up, like we had to, you had to split equipment down the middle and all kinds of stuff. It was literally like a breakup.
I got half the babies and he got half the babies and then, you know, we went our separate ways. And so that's when a Queen White Haze was born.
So that was the first staple strain that made Canada Queen a name.
Yes, that is my legacy strain for my company.
And what was the cross on that?
The cross on Queen White Haze is Oro Blanco by Bodie, which is the white times Wookiee times Miami Heat, which is exotic. I mean, yeah, exotics genetics. And it is triple OG times Miami Haze.
It was true to my roots. So, you know, I just knew that it was going to be, you know, originally it was supposed to be like a white version of the black haze, but I really bred it more towards the OG side. So it became more an OG than a haze.
But I would tell people in the beginning of the F1s and F2s, it was an OG haze all the way. You'd find OGs, you'd find hazes. You'd find OGs with haze high and you'd find hazes with OG high. It was kind of cool.
Right. And, you know, when I first heard the name Canada Queen, that was the first strain that was, or the first type of cannabis that was thrown out there to represent you was everybody was saying grow the Queen White, grow the Queen White, grow the Queen White.
And I'm going, okay, well, maybe I'll pay a bit more attention to this gal. She's obviously got something going on that people love. What's the flowering time like on that? You said it leaned closer to the OG, right?
Yeah, it does lean close to the OG and the flowering times are, I mean, I've seen one harvest at 56 days, 64 days, 70 days, but mostly between 60 and 70 days is your sweet spot. I feel like cloudy, half amber, 20% amber.
Yeah, definitely leading towards that OG side. That's a beautiful flowering time.
It is. It's so frosty. Like she definitely lives up to her name, like everything about her except for the haze, but the high does come out in some of the phenos, the haze high.
Yeah, especially.
She's definitely more of a heavier high. And then like icing on the cake, the trichomes is icing on the cake because when you press her, she'll give you a 30 or 32% return like every time.
Nice.
Every time.
That's beautiful. And what's the terp profile like on her?
So I have F1, F2, F3, V2, and BX1. But when you get to the BX1s, I locked in that piney, lemony, like it's almost like Murphy's oil. There's some that have like a burnt rubber tire terp to it. So yeah, it's pretty big.
One of the things that I like asking all the people that I interview, or all the breeders I should say that I interview, is what top three to five strains best represent your company and what you're trying to accomplish? Obviously that queen white haze, you said that is the staple of Canna Queen genetics. Is there any others that just you're really trying to promote and put out there?
So I'm just going to say like as far as like crowd favorites, the crowd favorites are definitely queen white haze number one, lemon delight number two, blue tree stars probably number three, three little nightingales. Oh, it's so hard.
So that nightingale was one that you made with the breeder over in Spain.
Yeah, the three little nightingales. It's an F3 of his strain, the nightingale.
So you recreated that and took your name to it?
I took that strain out of my selection. Yeah, and I changed the name because I don't think it's right when you stomp on, and I say stomp on, but you could be making it better or making it worse. You don't know until the progeny. But it deserves a new title. I always stay true to the strain lineages. It's somewhere in the name, you know?
What about that lemon delight? What's the lineage on that one?
Okay, so lemon delight is it's a queen's treat. Actually, that's what I mean. You know, that's what the name is about. But it's lemon royale by swamp boys, which is lemon tree times GMO TK skunk.
I actually heard that was a great one. That's nice.
Yeah, it's yeah, I would have to say that if you like a longer flowering one, she's you know, for you, she's probably a 12 to 14 week or just depending on what you know.
We're all about flowerings over here.
Yeah, but I'm talking like lemon tree all day long, like fresh lemonade stand grind. Like, I don't know, she's just phenomenal. But there's also like a GMO pheno that they love. Lefty's farm did a collab with me on operations grow season two, they did a blind grow and they found out what strain they were growing halfway through.
So it ended up being the lemon delight F2. And lefty at the time was doing a phenom of the TK and oh five haze by aka bean brain. And he hit his best lemon delight with the TK and oh five haze male.
Oh, well, yeah, so he sent me almost all the seeds that he had made, which was a bunch. And something kept telling me to pop them. So I did. And I guess I will, you know, I guess you don't think about this when you're trying new strains that you've made. You're just like, Oh, yeah, I'm about to smoke it and taste it.
I actually did it live on Instagram. I smoked a mess up and it was it was phenomenal. It was amazing. The smoke was great. I'll sit down like yeah, I feel great.
Oh, sorry. So my nausea delay is the name of the strain. And then we had to nickname it mess up like, like, mess. Yeah, it's really bad. So I listen, so I get off the line. I feel like you know, I feel really energetic. I'm gonna go get some stuff done and I'll see you guys later. See you next time, whatever.
I get off the phone and like 10 minutes later, I kid you not my heart was beating out of my chest. I was like, Did you hear that? Like, did you hear that? Like something's outside? It's like broad daylight. I'm like, Oh my gosh. So I've never in my life had to smoke CBD to come down from flower ever in my entire life. So I knew something was up with this strain. I didn't touch it for a whole month after that. So it was clearing and I was telling all my people I'm like, Nope, stay away from that. That's messed up. That's straight. It's messed up, you know.
And so it kind of stuck, you know, and then that they all wanted it. They're like, we want to go. I'm like, No, I just need to come with a disclaimer. Like if you have heart problems, this strain is not okay for you.
I feel like it's, it sounds like Tyson trying to say messed up.
Yeah, yeah, definitely the list. Yep.
It's really seriously messed up.
It's funny that you brought that up about taking CBD to bring you down from a strain. A lot of people have their, you know, withholdings about CBD and its efficacy. But one of the things about CBD is it needs that THC with it in order to activate in order to touch those receptors and be effective, right?
So yeah, the entourage effect, you know, the CBD piggybacks on the THC and vice versa. So they don't really work as well without the other. But there's a few things you can do if you get too high. You can chug a beer because like alcohol is a depressant. So if you're like really, really high and you you're freaking out, because you know, a lot of people aren't used to this medical grade stuff. You know what I mean? Like they're like, What, what'd you do to it? It was fine before. Like, it's too strong. That stuff hits different now.
So you can chug a beer or you can smell pepper. Pepper does something to your brain where I can't really understand. I'm like, I'm like not a scientist.
Must be that karyophyllin.
Yep, has to be.
That's interesting.
So, yep, pepper and then CBD. And people just, they just shun CBD.
I've never heard that with a pepper.
Yeah, definitely.
You know what's funny about that? We were doing an event in Seattle at Hemp Fest and there was a booth there that sold CBD. Like, I don't know if it was isolate or it said full spectrum.
But Hemp Fest doesn't allow, you know, any THC over there. But he had these CBD dabs and then he had extract terpenes. So you could add whatever flavor profile you want to the CBD.
And right before that, Miss C and I had, we were passing around this big old one ounce joint that I had rolled and we were sharing it pre-COVID days. And we were just high as shit. It was amazing.
And I was with my brother that doesn't smoke cannabis at all. Like, he's never done a drug in his life. So we're just ripped on this one ounce joint. And then we go to this booth and I said, well, I'll try the CBD dab.
We sat down. He had a little e-mail on it. We put the isolate in there. We picked my terpenes. I think it was peach or something like that. But I took just an enormous rip and it was so smooth that I just kept puffing on it. Kept puffing on it. I was fine.
And then I stood up and he's like, well, what do you think? And I said, it sucks. And he goes, what do you mean it sucks? It looks like you enjoyed it.
And I said, I'm not high at all. I smoked a one ounce fucking joint and you just made me waste it.
So that's my testimony to how well CBD can work. It's just how you use it.
Yeah, so I just looked it up real quick about the pepper and it says it's not an old wives tale. If you're battling a bit of THC induced anxiety paranoia, your body suggests sniffing or chewing on black peppercorns. A few sniffs, the media effect while chewing peppercorns can provide a relief for about an hour.
Oh wow. Up to an hour. That's actually quite a bit of time for just sniffing some pepper.
Very nice. All right, we're going to take a short break.
We're on the short break. I want to give a quick shout out to Diamond Cut Company. You guys can go over to Diamond Cut Company and use dock minus 10% for 10% off your order.
Since making the switch over to Diamond Cut Company, I have not wanted to use anything else.
They meet and exceed every expectation that I have in a trimming scissor. They're some of the most beautiful trimming scissors ever. They're like a piece of jewelry and they keep their edge forever as long as you keep them clean.
They have tons of different models. The classics, which I use to chop up my buds. I prefer not to use a grinder when I'm rolling a blunt. I prefer a coarser grind, so I use the classics to chop up my bud.
They also have the 6-5, which incorporates the finger loop and it is spring as well. I use those as my general handyman scissors.
They also have the pros, which have a rounded hand grip and a heavier spring, and I can actually use those for physically taking down smaller plants.
Anything from like a one to three gallon, they usually seem to be pretty well with, as well as de-stemming before the trimming process.
My favorite model, though, is the Harvester. They come in both gold and silver. They're springless, so you can trim it as fast as your hand will fly.
And since there's no resistance against your hand, it also means less fatigue and longer trimming time.
Miss C's favorite model is the Artisan. The Artisan does have a spring and it's very comparable to a lot of the top of the line models that most companies use.
But I find that the Artisans have a lighter spring, which again leads to less hand fatigue and longer trimming time, as well as a more comfortable grip and a sharper edge.
So one last time, shout out to Diamond Cut Company. You guys can go over there. Use Dock minus 10%. That's Dock minus 10% for 10% off your order.
Alright, let's get back with CannaQueen Genetics.
Hey everybody and welcome back to the Calyx & Crew podcast. Before the break, we were talking to CannaQueen Genetics about her experiences with this plant at a young age, her experiences getting into growing and how she got introduced to breeding.
We also talked about some strains that best represent her company and she was shouting out that Lemon Delight sounds delicious. The Queen White Haze, everybody has recommended that to me.
So I'm stoked to pop back in here with CannaQueen and talk more about what she's got coming up in the future. What is going to happen with CannaQueen Genetics?
I can't say what's going to happen with CannaQueen Genetics, but I would like to think that we will be operating somewhere in a huge field of dreams with warehouses full of my genetics.
Everybody wants that.
Exactly. But for now, I'm just forwarding, working these lines, like really just putting in the work and eventually, you know, my strains will do my talking for me and we'll see where that takes us.
I don't know where that takes us, but I am actually F3ing the XXX Candy. The XXX Candy was a special project I had gotten some pollen from a friend of the Gulf Forbidden Candy as a fishing out of strain.
He was covered in trichomes, he was colorful. He definitely had more of a skittles leaf trait, but I didn't really see that come through as that.
As much in the F2s because they favor the X18.
Nice. What colorations were you getting in the Fades?
Oranges and burnt umbers and reds and plums. Oh, it was just phenomenal. Actually, I had it listed on my IG.
Very nice. Keratin doesn't get enough appreciation. Everybody loves the dark purple, the black fades, but I've always had a special place in my heart for the oranges and reds.
I actually have a special place in my heart for the males. They do not get enough appreciation. They don't get enough face time, they don't get enough credit. Yes, we need females. I think they're obviously important, but I think the males generally...
I'm sorry to say that as we're talking to a female breeder, the males do not get enough respect.
Yeah, and what's crazy is the females in this industry, it's vice versa with physical life in this community and industry. The females just don't get the credit that they deserve.
And a lot of females just don't even stand up. They don't stand for it because they're intimidated. It can be very intimidating to be in a sea full of...
It's definitely a male dominated industry.
Yes.
No, it's okay. It's okay. Most men are assholes. We can throw that out there. And it's not me sticking up for the females here. I can be an asshole.
Everybody can be an asshole.
Not so much assholes, but they're worse than females.
Oh, I'm an asshole.
They're worse than females. They're pettier.
I agree.
When I decided this was going to be my job, I was like, hell to the yeah. I don't have to deal with all these petty women hating me because whatever.
And then I get that same thing that I thought I wasn't going to get here. Yeah, it's just hard. We face a lot of adversity. And I'm not like a feminist. I'm not like, hair to the vagina.
But if you guys would just give us half a fucking chance, and you would let us work with you, you would see that we bring something to the table that you never could.
Yeah, it's definitely something that shouldn't be gender related at all, especially when women naturally pay more attention to things than men do.
It's those fine details, you know, that comes with that, that whole nature versus nurture, where I might go into my grow room and say, you know, Oh, well, you're a little soggy, you know, I'll give you or you're a little droopy.
I'll give you a little bit of water and I'll catch you later. Miss C will actually like go through and look at him and make sure everything's good. She's kind of like my second pair of eyes and she's a little bit more detailed than I am. And she catches things that I just don't catch.
And that you know, on that point, a lot of people discredit like, for me, me, for instance, because I'm more of a intuitive, instinctive type grower and breeder, like, even though I'll see two plants, and I'm like, yes, seemingly, you guys are perfect for each other, you have everything.
But like, there's things under recessive things that you cannot see that you could bring up. So like, even though I do pick the two best plants, you know, in my opinion, as far as breeding, I also go with the my second choice that's like in the back of my head, like you should hit those two, like, they're not perfect. But you know what I mean? Like, and nine times out of 10, that second cross I make that version two that I make is, is the one that I end up going with. So
I definitely agree with that. I think there's plants that when you smell that terpene profile, it hits certain receptors in your brain, that when they turn you on, they make you happy, and they make you feel good, and you have a good feeling about that plant. That's definitely something that you should investigate further. Because obviously, there's something about that whole makeup of that cannabinoid profile in that particular phenotype.
That's just saying it's calling to you.
Yeah, I think too, with a lot of breeders, they're breeding more towards like their own their preference only. And that's, I'm a firm believer in making three versions, if you need to have the same cross. If you can, if you have the selections, I definitely encourage making more than one version, because one version could be for you. And one version could be for your mom. And one version could be for your sister. It's like, I just don't want to single out just what I want. And I think that a lot of breeders do that. And I'm not saying that's bad. I'm just saying maybe that makes me a more,
thorough breeder when I hit more than just what my selections would be.
Right, right. I feel like there, that is, or few and far between. But there is a couple breeders that like isolating certain phenotypes.
Oh yeah, absolutely. I'm for that too. I just really love variety so much. And I have a very dependable test team. So they love it when I send different versions of the same strain.
Very nice. Very nice. Who all do you have on your testing team? Would you like to give a quick shout out?
I actually have about 19 on my gardening team. I know, I know. It's grown over the years. I've really built like a little family. It's really awesome.
And I'm going to forget some, so I hope they don't kill me. But Smurf and the Stone, Wawa Cantergrows, Tolkas, 69, Grim Smurf Banks, Doves. I just have so many.
And they all bring a different factor. And they're all over the country too. So I have some in Scotland. I have some in South Africa. Shout out Delta 9.
And shout out for Ben's Hide Till I Die Farms in Scotland. So it's really cool to see the different phenotypic expressions, especially the South Africa. He grew the Lemon Delight.
And I mean, black. The leaves of the Lemon Delight were completely black. It's just a stunning plant.
Cool, cool. And what do you got that you're working on right now?
So yeah, I kind of got off base. But yeah, I'm doing the Triple X Candy F3s. I'm doing the Queen White Haze Backcross 1 with the Smurf and the Stone cut.
Smurf and the Stone won the Dillon Queens Grow Off, which was my third grow off that I had run on my own. And he won with the Queen White Haze. So I used his cut to backcross at F4. Yeah, so that's what I'm working on right now.
Pretty nice. And what was it about that cut that just did it for you, that you said, this needs to be the backcross?
So honestly, I wasn't that sold on it just because of how she looked. But she was, every time he grew her, he grew her like different. So he grew her in a greenhouse and she was like rainbow.
Her fade was just rainbow. Her buds had this purple undertone. Underneath the leaves was purple. Super frosty, super dense. But every time he grew her, it was better and better.
And then the last time he grew her, she had this more low, almost like a brick red color. Oh my gosh, she was magnificent. I said, you know what, Smurf, send her to me.
She's been screaming at me for three years now. Just send her to me and we'll collab on a backcross.
Oh wow, it took three years for you to agree on that one, huh?
Well, I wanted to see what else, you know, there was a lot of people growing her and there was a lot of different phenos. I mean, I was seeing the same ones, you know, throughout the mix, but this was the one that was just like, maybe.
So you keep your lines pretty open or are you more into bottlenecking into a certain type? It sounds like you like your variations, so you're trying to keep your lines a little bit more open, but you're giving the people that want the option of the best phenotype, in your opinion, to be able to select for that too.
Yeah, so for a long time I only had about 14 strains released and behind the scenes, you know, every time I was flowering, I was breeding. So I have about 50 or 55 strains that I've actually created and I just released 47 of them. So these are strains that somewhere at F2, somewhere at F1, somewhere at F4, you know what I mean, it just depends on what strain it is, but everybody, there's something for everybody.
Nice, very nice. What else are you working on that you're really stoked about?
I had gotten some seeds from a friend in the Emerald Triangle and he sent me some double OG and I'm literally like, I love OG. So I popped those, I found a male and I found a female with the double OG. So I did a binary cross. I did a male double OG to the female Queen White Haze and then I did a female Queen White Haze to the male Queen White Haze.
And then vice versa, because I'm dyslexic, so my brain flip-flops it for me. Anyway, I did it binary, so whichever, I flipped it with the other cross. I'm excited about those. We just named the strain, it's called Lorena del Sur, which means Queen of the South.
Very nice. That sounds beautiful.
Yeah, I thought so too.
So what made you decide to work with the Purple Wookiee?
Oh man, I actually have to say this. I got to meet Bodhi. I got to tell him that my signature strain was made with his Orlando. I was like, are you bringing some more back? Where are they? They just disappeared. Now it's my second top strain I've ever grown and bred with. One of my strains has actually replaced it.
I got to talk to him, I got to pick his brain, I got to show him some of the phenos that I had. So he did Purple Wookiee and I was dying to work with some kind of skunk, some kind of roadkill skunk, but not from certain people.
So I saw Bodhi had the Roadkill Unicorn and he crossed it to the Wookiee and I was like, oh, I like Wookiee too. He knows the way to my heart through his strains. Wookiee is almost in everything that I have. Literally, it's somehow, well obviously if the Queen White Haze is in it, Wookiee is in it.
I had heard about the Wookiee for a while and that name kept popping up, Wookiee, Wookiee, Wookiee.
A lot of people think that it's the White x Cookies, which it's not. It's Lavender x Appalachia. A lot of people, when they say the White x Cookies, I'm like, ew, why would you do that? Why would you even think that?
But I get it, if you just take the W and you put cookie, I get it. Maybe there is a Wookiee cookie, but not Wookiee.
Right, right. Yeah, we got to try for the very first time, I think it was the Purple Wookiee, that's what it was. And I said, okay, well I finally have the opportunity to try some Wookiee.
And I didn't know what to expect out of it. I didn't know that much about it other than that name kept popping up. And after we smoked the Purple Wookiee, I was like, this is something I would grip. This is beautiful.
The flavor.
And the high isn't scamp either. It's a nice, even high.
So, okay, so Purple Wookiee is Roadkill Unicorn x Wookiee, but if you break down Roadkill Unicorn, you got Roadkill Skunk, then you have Blackberry Widow, so that's where you get all those berries, you know, undertones and stuff from.
And you definitely get that Widow too, like that, I call it halitosis, because that's the only way I can explain it to people who can't smell it, but it's like bad breath. That's what Widow smelled like to me.
I always thought, to me, Widow was very like musky earth.
Yeah, I think, yeah, that could be. It could be chalked up to earthy, I guess. I just, I really get like a, it's not really a GMO bad breath.
Everybody perceived smells different.
Yeah, that's true. Yeah, yeah, so true. That's what I'm saying. Like, I just explain it exactly. Like if it smells like a port-a-potty cake, I'm gonna tell them it smells like a port-a-potty cake, because how are they, how else are they gonna like...
You put your perception out there, no matter how bad it is, and honestly, I'm one of those people that if the worst you make it sound, the more I want it.
Yeah, or the more you can relate, oh, I know what a burnt rubber tire smells like, and I know what lemon smells like, so if I put those two together, yes, that's something that I would like.
Yeah, for sure. I remember being a younger punk and stealing some of my mom's vodka, and we took a swig off of it, and my brother goes, well, what do you think it tastes like? And I said, well, it tastes like fucking, tastes like oil lamp oil.
And he goes, how do you know what that tastes like? And I go, I don't, but that's my perception.
So, yeah, so then when people say that, like, how do you know what that smells like? Dude, how do you know what it tastes like? It's like, because your smell can translate to taste, that's why you're given those senses.
Absolutely, absolutely. Well, we love talking to you, Canna Queen. Thank you so much for coming on the podcast. Before we end this, is there anybody that you would like to shout out, sponsors, what have you?
First of all, thank you so much for having me on. I really appreciate that. You've given me a little stand for my voice, and that's super important to me, so I really appreciate that. I really had a great time.
And I did shout out my guardsman, but one more time, I wouldn't be where I am if it wasn't for their thorough testing and growing for me, so thank you, guardsman.
And also, my friend Johnny Nugs will be vending at Any Can Beanstalk and Bean Con at the Fish Shit booth, so shout out Fish Shit and Johnny Nugs at Canna Logic Inc. And also, my soil is so very generously sponsored by Bio365, my rep, Bio365 Tim. Amazing people, very knowledgeable, backed by science. Check them out.
I've seen great things with that soil. Beautiful, beautiful work. Weren't you also doing a contest for people that were growing your type?
Oh, okay, so in April, I'm having the first annual Canna Queen Cup. It's actually a private sesh for the first annual, just so we can iron out some kinks and stuff. But we're doing a blind judging. Everybody who's coming has grown some of my gear, and we'll be blind judging that. We'll have prizes. We've had some prizes sponsored by What the Fuck Whisko Tree Fire for the slaps and some art.
I like how you say that, too.
Yeah, he's awesome.
We have to definitely give him a little spotlight. I know I didn't mention him in my Garzman book.
It's not actually What the Fuck, though, is it? It's just WTF for the Whisko Tree Fire, right?
Yeah, I guess that's just how I read it every time.
That's how I read it. Yeah, every time he pops into my life, I'm like, What the Fuck, Whisko Tree Fire. He added that later, and I was like, oh, it stands for Whisko Tree Fire. But I still, to this day, call him What the Fuck.
Yeah, he's just a solid, solid, solid guy. Good friend. And definitely makes some amazing slaps. He prints, so definitely check him out.
So at this cup that you're doing, the first ever Cannabis Queen Cup, is that the name right?
Canna Queen Cup, yeah.
Is there some kind of incentive? Is there prizes for somebody that wins this?
Yeah, so we're going to have all kinds of prizes. We're going to be playing all kinds of games. There's going to be a joint rolling competition. I don't really want to give away all the details, but there's going to be prizes.
We're buying, instead of a trophy, we're buying dab rigs and stuff for game winners and some of the competition winners and stuff.
Very nice. That sounds like a fun time.
BIO365 was actually so generous and sent me a 10x4 banner with their logo and my logo.
Awesome. That's very cool.
So, anybody that wants to get into this Canna Queen Cup over on the East Coast, what are the credentials? Is there any rules to it?
It's going to be a traveling event. I decided that we didn't want it to be a stationary event.
This year it's obviously in Michigan and next year we're planning on it being in Oklahoma and possibly New England a year after.
That's awesome.
We're going to do an overall best cannabis of the entire weekend. It doesn't even have to be my gear, but we're going to do two separate competitions.
One Canna Queen, only genetic, and then one whatever you want.
Right. People who maybe didn't get to grow or didn't get to harvest in time, they still get to bring something and get to compete. It's just a good time.
Very cool. Sounds like a fun time. I always love a good joint moment competition.
Hell yeah!
Thank you for coming on, Canna Queen. We appreciate you and we appreciate what you're doing in cannabis.
Thank you so much. You can check out my website, cannaqueengenetics.com.
You can hit me on my email for a full menu at cannamafia420.gmail.com.
You're also on Instagram, correct?
Instagram, yeah. Canna underscore Queen underscore genetics underscore co.
Very nice. Very nice. Well, thank you for coming on. We appreciate you so much.
And that's the show, everybody. I want to thank Canna Queen again for coming on, for sharing her story, who she is.
I urge you guys to go over to Instagram, go over to her website, check her out, pick up the packed seeds, and see what she's working with.
This is a female breeder that's putting in tons of work, that wants to get her name out there, and rightly so, deserving it.
Some beautiful plants I've seen coming out, that Queen White Haze, absolutely beautiful. Some Lemon Delight.
I've seen all kinds of pictures from tons of growers that are growing her genetics, yet her name just isn't getting out there, which I find absolutely astonishing.
Shout out to Canna Queen. I hope we can get her back on the show one day, see what she's up to in the future.
Before we get going, I urge you guys to share the show with a fellow grower. It is the lifeblood, which is going to keep the Calix and Clue podcast pumping.
Your support means the world to me.
Also, don't forget to go check us out on Patreon and Discord. Our memberships start at a mere $10 a month.
With membership, you get access to our forum, our Discord, and we have 24-7 help there for you.
I'm joined by my amazing team of guys. We have GrowGreenDaddy over there helping us with content creation.
We have Husky Genetics, who's going to be doing the ever-hilarious do or dab with us, as well as a synthetic cultivation class called Why So Salty.
We also have my good friend Farmer Fly over there doing the Wake and Bake Wednesdays with us.
Very, very excited, and we hope we see you over there.
Thanks for joining us. Thanks for supporting and watching and listening to the show over all these years.
This is Doc Calix saying goodnight and grow right.
