Hello, podcast listeners.
Welcome to the Calix and Crew podcast.
Podcast by the cannabis community for the cannabis community.
I'm very excited because today we have a very exciting podcast for you.
Joining us on this episode, we have Chef Sebastian Kurosi.
Chef Kurosi has been published multiple times in High Times,
Weed World Magazine, Maximum Yield, just to name a few.
He works with a multitude of cannabis events and specializes in sustainable,
organic foods and out of the box local ingredients.
Before we get started with Chef Kurosi,
I wanted to give a quick shout out to our patrons for their help in supporting
the show so that we can continue making this epic content.
So shout out to Barry Turt, Funtime Grower, TK Geico,
Jesse James 3006, Jtrain071,
Metal Matt AK, Farmer John 13, Charlie Brown,
Harshi83, Covert Dylan, and Twisted Gardens.
I've been grateful to build relationships with these guys in our private
discord service,
as well as teach them regenerative and sustainable gardening practices,
whether they're on their first or their hundredth grow.
Thank you all from the bottom of my heart. I really appreciate it.
If you're interested in supporting the show,
I urge you to check out our podcast page on Instagram at
calix underscore crew underscore podcast.
There's a link to our patron in the bio for $10 a month.
You can get access to our discord server, bonus content, games,
giveaways, as well as behind the scenes interviews with our podcast guests,
or you can check us out at patreon.com slash doc underscore
calix. Share the show with fellow cannabis enthusiasts, like comments,
subscribe. I greatly appreciate your feedback and your support.
Now, before we take up too much time,
let's welcome my guest chef Sebastian Kurosy.
What's going on doc? How are you? Thanks for having me.
I'm very excited to have you on this, a bit of a different podcast.
It's very cannabis related,
but we're kind of delving into what you do today.
And I'm actually extremely excited for this.
When did your interest in working with cannabis begin?
I'm 50 years old and I grew up in a household where both of my parents were
cannabis users.
They were also both in the medical industry.
My dad became a doctor and my mom left the medical industry and became actually
a nuclear physicist. So she moved into a different realm of stressful jobs,
but they both continued to use cannabis throughout my life.
And then when I grew up,
I saw that there were two people in my life that were
successful, no problems,
had basically whatever they wanted to work for to get and use cannabis.
And my dad being in the medical industry would always,
you know, he'd always had plants going on,
but he always had something to make out of it. You know,
whether it be something silly back in the day,
like brownies or rice crispy treats, you know,
I hate to use candy and sugar vehicles like that as a topic, but you know,
those things were vehicles for cannabinoids back in the day when that was your
level of cooking with cannabis.
So I just kind of took that and added it to my
profession as a culinarian and as a chef and
just tried to apply it without being too scientific at the time.
Everybody's getting really scientific now and everybody knows everything.
And yet everybody knows everything. Everybody's the master grower, you know,
everybody's all this. And it's really, it's kind of a convoluted,
I don't even care.
I can't call it an industry because it's not an industry because it's not
nationwide. It's sparse.
It's in certain areas and it's controlled in different ways and nobody's
controlling a fucking carrot and all these different ways.
So why are you going to try to control cannabis in a different way?
And I know the benefits are highly different from a carrot versus cannabis,
but I mean, still, if they're going to regulate it,
they really need to start coming together.
And because there's people out here,
they're like me who are not looking for the highly processed edibles in the
store.
We're not looking for the next strain that is named after a candy bar or a
wrapper. We're not looking for that.
What I like to call real cannabis consumers and not just end users.
So a lot of people are in this industry without drawing a paycheck from a
company. You can't be in an industry if you're just an end user.
Oh, I smoke a lot of weed in the industry.
I come across that all the time and it just,
it's like jaded me for a lot of things and it's kind of moved me away from a
lot of things.
I get these messages all the time from JNS casting to go and be on the next,
you know, chopped cannabis show and all this.
And I don't answer any of them because I don't feel the,
I need the validity of what I'm doing to shine through.
I need to maybe talk about things a little bit more and I don't feel like I'm
going to be able to talk about things a little bit more openly and ask people,
i.e. the larger conglomerates and companies.
I don't mean people in general,
but there are owners and CEOs of these companies that are buying 65,000 pounds
of sugar a month and only buying,
and only buying 20 pounds of cannabis extract to put into their gummies and then
selling them to the mass market, which is basically my grandmother.
And it's just so sad. I want people, and I'm sorry,
I'm on the Dennis Miller style rant here, but no,
you're good.
I really want people to understand that the plant is edible from the roots to
the tip. The leaves are highly nutritional.
The biggest benefits that we found from cannabinoids and cannabis yet are not
from any of the ways that any of us are consuming it.
It's juicing it and drinking the juice immediately.
All the studies in Israel that were done in the sixties and now that are done
in from 2005 up are the phytonutrients and then the availability of what you
can get from just, and then auger juicing. And that's another thing.
Everybody's like, Oh,
I'm going to go out and get a juicer and I'm going to juice it and I'm going to
be like, yeah, yeah, yeah. No,
you have to have an auger juicer like you were juicing wheatgrass because the
centrifugal force of the force driven motor driven juicers are just killing half
of the nutrients. It's just like we're doing when we're smoking weed.
But I'm not going to stop smoking weed.
I'm going to get as many cannabinoids in my body as I can.
And I don't need heavy doses of cannabis.
A lot of people think I eat a lot of cannabis because I cook with it. I don't.
If you notice a lot of my food is based around raw cannabis and the leaf and
other forms of cannabinoids in the recipes and using the,
you know, tonight I made a panna cotta with cannabis pollen.
A friend of mine that's a breeder gave me a gift of cannabis pollen and it's
highly sought after. I mean, some of it goes for 600 bucks for a quarter gram.
You know, if you're a breeder, it could go for more than that,
but it's loaded with protein.
And I always see all these chefs and all these culinarians in my field,
always looking for the next thing. You know,
they're all looking for like moose nuts from the Congo of South Brazil.
You know, something that's like, people are just going to be like, Oh,
I need those moose nuts. That's, that's it. I need those.
I heard of those and I need them. And the chefs are all driven that way,
but yet they have an ingredient that's readily available to them.
They could be using micro greens. They could be using juicing greens,
salad greens.
It's really weird because I got involved in the first farm in the country that
is USDA and FDA licensed to sell micro greens,
juicing greens and salad greens, cannabis, hemp, whatever you want to call it.
Sour tsunami is what we were growing. And I grew 50 acres and you know,
I only had two chefs in the world buy it only to, and I got it out there.
I mean, I got, I got a reach, you know, I write for seven magazines.
I mean, I'm out there. I can get it to people.
Even if I have to send it to you free, I'm going to let you try it.
Do you think that's lack of experience in working with those materials?
Yeah. I think it's scarce, lack of just lack of knowledge, but yet they'll,
they're all looking for like, and if I tell them I got truffles, they're like,
Oh, can I get some, can I get some?
Yeah. Everybody wants the truffles.
I saw your post the other day about the truffles and I want truffles.
You live close bro. And here in the next two months,
you come on over this way and I'll pick more truffles and you can sell.
Dude, I would love that.
I would love to go out and forge with you and just learn some of your knowledge.
I've gotten extensive knowledge of cannabis,
but I've just never really been exposed to the world of mycology as much.
And that's something I would definitely like to learn.
I'm not a professional. I'm not a mycologist. I'm not a botanist.
I'm nothing like that.
I've gone on everything that my family has kind of handed down to me and just
whatever region you go to has got it's the things like that.
So let's loop back on that really quick since you brought it up.
From my understanding are both your parents, Italian immigrants?
Yes. Both of my parents was first generations born here.
And your father was the one that got you into mushroom foraging.
Yeah. My grandfather Vito, his father. Yeah.
He was a truffler. He was a forager.
We had like 300 acres farm in Rhode Island when we first came here and we didn't
have no money, man. You know, if you wanted to eat,
you either had to grow it or forage it. And Americans don't,
and I'm not talking shit about Americans. I'm an American.
I'm just saying Americans don't have any. Well,
there's no seasons in a grocery store.
You go into a grocery store in January and there's plump tomatoes.
You go into a grocery store in the middle of July. There's plump tomatoes.
You go in February, there's plump tomatoes,
cold storage.
And that's the thing is, is that I'm so scared right now.
Monsanto has registered and copy written over 8,500 stranger cultivars of
cannabis. Really? Nobody's paying attention to shit, man.
They did it with apparently they did it with,
they did it with vegetables.
They're doing it with all the hemp right now because they work cannabis for like
the past six years.
Now they're doing hemp because the hemp farming is getting so damn big,
but people just have to shake off a little bit of the dropped on their head
syndrome and kind of like, just wake up, wake up.
Sourcing things fresh, naturally,
and locally is very important.
No to them that these people need to focus on. Yeah. But here to them,
if that doesn't adequate,
that doesn't fit into a drive through method,
then they don't do it or there's no app for them. That's, you know what I mean?
I'm with you. Yes, absolutely. I'm very glad we did this interview.
I think you and I vibe together just perfectly. Okay.
So I wanted to touch back.
You said your grandparents were Italian immigrants. They came over here.
They taught you how to forage and work with these mushrooms.
And another thing that you said was that you use the entire plant from the roots
to the leaves. Yeah. Okay.
If you're going to make RSO or you're going to make something and you're a
grower, you got the roots, those roots, if they are not, and I'm not a grower,
I've never grown weed in my life. My wife is, I had cannot,
I murder plants for a living. That's my job.
So if you're growing in a basin and it say hydroponic and you have roots that
touch the basin between that root and that basin,
that micro space, there's a lot of bacteria that a lot of people don't know about.
So personally, if any roots touch the basin, I wouldn't use them,
but any other roots, I would put them in your RSO.
I would put them in your anything I would make from root to tip.
You juice them and do whatever the hell you can not to waste them.
What's your favorite way to prepare roots?
I like to make things like if I'm making, well, so I like to juice.
You like to juice? Yeah. I like to juice them because they're extremely bitter.
So there's lots of parts of the plants that I like to juice because different
areas on the plants and I've done,
I've sat there and juiced like 70 runs just testing the
taste on a few different strains I had available and a few different methods of
juicing,
but they're so damn bitter that you really have to mix them with some plant
matter juice to get them down. I mean, that's what I thought.
Pollen. Very cool. Pollen's loaded with all sorts of, I mean,
you think about what pollen is and it's the,
it's baby flowers floating around from one flower to the flower.
So it's already got so many nutrients and it's loaded with protein,
minerals, all sorts of vitamins.
And then those things are necessary and we're just letting them go, you know?
Yeah. That one doesn't scare me at all. I, you know,
I've been consuming bee pollen for a long time,
so why not go with a plant that I'm already working with?
That's really weird because I'm developing a recipe for Maximum Eel Magazine
right now and it's chocolate chaga truffles with bee pollen,
just a little sprinkle of bee pollen. I'm a junkie for bee pollen. I love bee pollen.
I am too. Yes, absolutely.
One of the things that I appreciate about your work that I've really been
following and been interested in is the fact that you work with ingredients
that are kind of out of the norm, you know?
One of the ones that I saw you post about the other day was a gunpowder and can
of pickled green strawberries. Oh yeah. What?
So a lot of people don't really know about gunpowder,
but the highest quality green tea in the world is actually graded as gunpowder
green tea. Really? Yeah.
So I like taking healing things that people don't really know about and people
that are a little bit unknown to people. And like I said,
it was so easy being a chef when you have all these normal things available to
you. But if you wanted to work in my kitchen as a culinarian,
first of all, you had to name five apples.
And I don't mean grocery store varietals.
You also had to name what the things on the end of a fork were.
And then we would start talking about maybe you'd wash dishes and then maybe you
could peel carrots or something like that.
But you got to, if you're going to be a culinarian,
you got to know your way up and around everything that you're doing.
So you go to a chef and you're like, cool, nice dish.
It looks like it was put together by 3000 people and 20 sets of tweezers.
Where'd your salt and pepper come from? And they look at you and they, and I,
I, uh, hmm. Yeah.
So that story kind of sucks because they can't even tell you where the fricking
salt and pepper came from.
And yet they put it together like this Noma museum of art and charged you
$65 for three little bites.
You're going to stop at somewhere on the way home and get something to fill you
up. You know, I was never, I couldn't sleep at night as a chef.
I worked for two sitting presidents. I worked for president Zarkozy of France.
I didn't cook food for them.
Like I went behind the boathouse at Walker point in Maine and smoked weed every
day while the Bush family was in there eating lobsters.
And I didn't feed them a shit, but I also,
I didn't have any political, I have no political affiliation.
I don't talk politics. I don't do,
I had one conversation with Laura Bush and it was about lobsters and the politics
behind lobsters. But other than that, we've never, I've never spoken, you know,
it was about food.
So for me,
it sucks that all of this has become Instagrammable because it's all
kind of based on elitism.
And like you see people like, and I'm just going to call it what it is,
but you see people that are registered sex offenders and rapists,
like being held an iconic status because they smoke weed.
Yeah. What the hell is going on?
That's that Chad culture.
You know what I mean?
It is what it is. I mean, you're always going to have that yin and yang, right?
Yeah. I can't, so I can't deal with it. So I turn a lot of people down.
Like, like I just broke a contract off with identity CBD and
I started working with them because we developed some products for the Norwegian
Olympic team. We developed a bone broth out of Norway,
but a lot of people don't know that the owner of identity CBD also owns
Futurola USA and Futurola. He's a big player.
He owns a couple of other companies too, but he runs,
he's business partners with plants now. And I was like, well, I can't,
I can't do anything for you now. Yeah. You know what I mean?
I mean, he's a bigger player. He's a bigger star.
You're going to get more publicity from putting pictures out of a registered sex
offender than you are of me. I got to kind of back up, you know?
Yep. And you don't need to affiliate your name with that.
They thought I was weird. You know, I kind of have my own,
I stay in my own little situation as much as I can because all the early
cannabis chefs out there are now,
all they're doing is peddling products on their Instagram. They're not peddling.
It's either regurgitated information that they got from somewhere else.
It's none of their own.
I appreciate your organic more of, you know,
staying within your own realm of this,
especially the work that you've done just locally, you know, for our state,
you back in the day you were doing hemp fest, right?
You were cooking over at hemp fest with the staff.
That's really weird that you knew that.
Dude, I, I, you went to hemp fest for years.
17 years.
I ran the kitchen at Seattle hemp fest for the volunteers.
Cooked meals, 10,000 meals over the five day period.
I've also done a few other things for hemp fest, but again,
I got jaded by what I saw that was real.
And I had to be really honest.
A lot of my friends became legal and hemp fest was long time ago, right?
So my friends, you get a legal cannabis business and then hemp fest comes to you
and says, Hey, can you sponsor the event? It's $15,000, you know,
or can you buy food for the event? It's this and this and this,
it's a $1.8 million a year party.
No matter what year you throw it,
it costs $1.8 million because of the land you got to rent all the bullshit you
got to do. And every year, every year,
there was a pallet of food that I couldn't give to the homeless.
I couldn't give to the needy. I couldn't give to the hungry.
And they made me throw away. But yet I was able to give to the homeless.
I was able to throw away, but yet five, but yet five months earlier,
they were begging me to beg my friends for the food to feed people with.
And so it got to the point where I wasn't going to be quiet anymore.
And Vivian's great. Nivon's great. Don't get me wrong,
but it's just,
it'd be so easy to get rid of too. There. Oh man. When you have hungry,
so many people that appreciate that, bro,
you got hungry people right on the other side of the fence and you're having to
tell them, no, I'm not that fucking person, man. I walk, no,
I walk right by see you later. I'm not responsible for none of this shit. Hey,
y'all, here's a bunch of sandwiches. Boom. Peace. You know what I mean? Yeah.
Dude. Much respect. It was bad. It was really bad. And I, and I found,
you know, I work for in the I five Oh two and OLCC,
I worked for about 40 companies as freelancers.
So I'm in the back door of a lot of places and I don't
sign disclosure agreements with anybody,
but it's not my business to talk about their businesses.
But I am really happy staying to myself
and just letting cannabis and psilocybin progress
the way that it's going to be with the lecherous money,
hungry vultures getting their parts first. Yeah.
It's like I was approached last year in November by national geographic
and sensi magazine.
They wanted to send a team out to forage for wild psilocybin for the first
time. And I was like, you know, that's cool.
But I've been going to this spot for 28 years now.
It was shown to me by a pretty important person. Yeah.
And I realized that things are on the cusp and they're coming twofold
and everybody's like, wow. And it's cool and it's hip and it's like this.
But like I said, I've been picking here for 28 years,
so I don't want you to be too disrespectful of the spot.
And they did it right.
Unfortunately, when they left, they called me back and were like,
hey, you guys might want to go get a COVID.
So my wife and I went and got COVID tests.
And sure enough, we both had COVID.
But that was a hell of a surprise from the National Geographic team.
But it's weird how this...
So 15 to 20 years ago,
they looked at me as a chef because I didn't wear a chef's jacket and I pushed
vegetables on my menu and garden grown foods.
And they were like, you hippie granola fuck.
And now, you know what I mean?
And now that's the stuff I like.
So I'm laughing at myself.
And now they're like, oh, my goodness.
The organic heirloom grown in no till soil.
Carrots, cosmic grown carrots from blah, blah, blah.
And it's funny how I'm going to.
And this is this is a funny thing for me sitting in a cabin deep in the woods
is saying like Ted Kaczynski is that social media
has put everything in everybody's fingertips.
So everybody knows everything now.
And it makes all these professionals.
A lot of masters of nothing.
Yeah. Master gardeners.
They're in it three years.
They got two crops down and they're a master gardener on their profile.
Yeah, I know. I know.
Chefs were like that, too.
I just hope that we have less
candy on the shelves in dispensaries and pot shops or,
you know, whatever you want to call them these days.
I hope that the culinarians start learning how to utilize cannabinoids
without using sugar as a vehicle to get them to people.
And I hope that the government gets a standardization practice going, because.
If they have a standardization for what organic is,
then they can surely have a standardization for what cannabinoids are
and what form they are.
And here's the five forms that are acceptable.
You can fucking use what you can use.
Here's what you can sell.
Here's what you can do.
Anything outside of that's the market is just like
people that are going to get in the carrot market and start selling us
carrot dust because it's, you know, carrot dust.
You know what I mean?
And there's some people that'll be fooled with the as seen on TV carrot dust.
But just get a normal carrot and eat it.
It's that simple.
Amen. So before we head to break,
I want to ask you, what are some of your favorite types of cannabis to work with?
So fresh.
Cannabis, pollen and young leaves.
I mean, a leaf that's like a shoot of like an inch.
Yeah. Is there is there a certain variety of cannabis that you like to use?
So it really depends on what I'm doing.
I tend to stay away from ultra, ultra
gassy, terp style things when it's going to be eaten raw.
You don't get a huge profile, but
some of it does show through.
And I like like popcorn buds to pickle whole.
They pickle up whole. Pickling.
Yeah, they pickle up good.
Like if they're the size of the tip of your pinky
and you do like a warm bath pickle, like pour the like get like two or three cups
of them and then pour the warm pickle liquid over them.
Let them sit at count room room temperature for like three hours
and then put them in a jar and then put them in the fridge.
Oh, my goodness. They're so young, tender.
You get this little slick of cannabinoids
and other compounds that floats on the top.
It's it's pretty nice to be able to play like that.
An incredible idea.
How does the infusion work on that?
Does the do the cannabinoids bind to anything in the pickle?
Here's the thing. So you just asked the perfect question.
So with me, I tend to layer my cannabinoids.
I want people to open their their cupboard, their pantry.
And I need you to have a I need them to stop thinking of, oh,
I need to grow weed and I need to have this.
And oh, it's just so complicated to know.
Jesus, what am I going to do?
And it's like, no, find a way to do it.
Find a supply, whether it's your dispensary, your grower, your whatever farmer.
Farmers are best, just like our food source.
We're talking about cannabis and then start making things for your pantry.
If you use balsamic vinegar, infuse it.
It's acid. It infuses either do it the old fashioned way in a jar
with decarbed cannabis or do it in a magical butter machine or something like that.
But olive oil, grapeseed oil, soy sauce, sesame oil, tamari, pumpkin seed oil,
sesame seed oil, rice wine vinegar, apple cider vinegar.
The list goes on and on.
So you go to make that and then use your vinegar for the pickled cannabis buds,
even though it's cannabis and you're pouring a liquid over it that's hot.
You're really not going to hold decarbed 10 times.
You're not going to do too much of that.
So use half cannabis infused vinegar in the recipe.
That's a great idea.
So we're going to take a quick smoke break when we come back.
I want to talk to you a little bit more about different infusions
that people can be working with.
Everybody works with butter.
Everybody works, you know, with the commonalities, with things
that we learned online that, you know, went back for generations.
Oil, typical oil.
People are start starting to break into different things,
like you just said, avocado oil, grapeseed oil, things like that.
But I still don't see like just as general knowledge,
a big palette of materials that most people work with at home.
So I kind of want to touch base with you on different infusions
that maybe people could be playing with that that they can benefit from.
I also want to talk to you about your work with these mushrooms
and like what benefits you're seeing from them,
what kind of dishes you like making with them and just dive deeper into what
Chef Sebastian Kurosi is all about in his practice.
Totally, totally.
All right.
We'll come right back when we get done with our smoke set.
Man, I cannot wait to get back to this interview with Chef Sebastian Kurosi.
If you guys haven't checked him out on Instagram already, go check him out
as Chef underscore Sebastian underscore Kurosi.
While we're on this quick break, go run, grab your pipe, grab your bomb,
grab your papers, roll you up on smoke with us.
That's what we're doing.
And while we're on this break, I want to give a quick shout out to Next Light LED.
Next Light LED is a pioneer in bright white LED technology.
Their spectrum is absolutely amazing.
They have one of the best warranties that I've ever seen.
It's a five year all component warranty down to the very last diode.
They have a model to fit any style of grill.
Doesn't matter what you're doing.
I have the Magus, I have the pros, I have the 420s and they're all amazing.
Go check them out at nextlight.com.
Now let's get back to our interview with Chef Kurosi.
All right, listeners, we're back with Chef Sebastian Kurosi.
Before we went to break, we were talking about using,
you know, every part of the cannabis plant, including the pollen, the roots,
some of the different infusions that you like to do.
I want to talk now, like we were saying,
a lot of people know how to work with oils and infuse oils, infuse butters.
What are some other mediums that we could be using to infuse?
I know you do things like sugar and stuff.
How do you try to stay away from the sugar?
I try to let people have other vehicles,
because if you are going to make the sugar,
you actually have to make a high alcohol tincture and then dump that into the sugar,
evaporate the alcohol out, the cannabinoids are left in the sugar, so on and so forth.
But I tried to have people make like vanilla infused with cannabinoids.
So if they're making pancakes or a cake, they can just put a little thing in.
So you always think of these little micro doses
that you can get to build up to a macro dose if you need to.
But have them in everything in your cupboard and pantry.
You were saying oil before,
because a lot of people associate fats and cannabinoids bonding really well.
And that's good.
And you get the most optimum extractions when you do things like that.
But you can't neglect the fact that acids,
thyme, and other things also create infusions.
So you can infuse vinegar because it's acid.
You know, most vinegars are at 5% pH, 7% pH for a normal vinegar.
And then I would also recommend people,
and this is going to be weird because you see it everywhere,
but people are all into the MCT oil, the coconut oil.
Yeah.
That's the worst thing you could have in the world for you
because it's been.
Treated to get the way that it is to be.
Coconut oil is not shelf stable and clear at room temperature.
It's cloudy. It's got solids in it.
You know, the other kind, like the non MCT coconut oil.
OK, I have not used the MCT oil, but I have seen a lot of people.
Don't OK.
You I was afraid about the coconut oil because I've used that.
It's always cold.
Yeah. Find. Yeah.
The cloudy stuff, the chunky.
Yeah, that's what you use.
But so the MCT oil is like liquid at room temperature and clear and all that.
And it's easy infusion and shit.
But realistically, it's medium chain triglyceride.
So what they did is, is they took the full chains away.
So you don't have full chain branch chain amino acids floating around in there.
And there's only a few three or four, but they've stripped it of that.
And then they've taken more parts away by taking that natural
whitish opaque pulp that's in there.
That's the real oil.
They've taken that away, too, to make it clear liquid like,
you know, and realistically, it's just stripped is stripped.
So if you have to use it, use it.
But I would say use olive oil overly.
Yeah. Use olive oil.
If you if you live anywhere here where we live, I know we're talking.
We live in the Pacific Northwest.
We have California below us.
But we also have olive growers in Oregon that are right there.
They're 50 miles away from Portland.
You can get a bottle of olive oil from them.
Travel time's little.
And I'm not bagging on anything from Italy.
That's where my family comes from.
But I try to buy where I can, when I can locally, because to me,
it works in two different ways.
I the farmer down the street is actually my neighbor.
And if he can't afford to put shoes on his daughter's feet
or a baseball glove on his son's hands
because the local folks don't buy his farm product, well,
that's not a community to me.
So socioeconomically, it says to me, let me buy from him when I can
all the time when I can.
And because I see his daughter regularly, I don't see the olive grower
in Italy and France's daughter.
I don't even know her damn name.
So if somebody is going broccoli, just same with weed.
If somebody is growing something that you use as a commodity in your life
that's close, try it out.
You know, if your family eats apples, find an orchard, go pick apples.
Yeah. Don't just try to buy the five dollar bag at the grocery store.
It might cost you thirty dollars at the orchard to pick the apples.
But guess what?
Look at your kid in the face when you're doing it and be like,
oh, damn, that's priceless, you know?
And those things are taken out of a lot of things.
When we get back to where we're talking about earlier,
the commercialization of cannabis and all that, it's like.
Like the home growers got forgotten,
the old school breeders got forgotten because it's so commercialized now.
And I hope to start the conversation off when we first got back from break,
it was to fill the cannabis pantry up and what ways we can do that.
I don't want to see a bunch of commercial shit in the pantry
from a bunch of conglomerate style big companies,
you know, when these people can do it themselves.
And it might not be easy to always bake your own cake.
Sometimes it's a little easier to go and get one from the store, but try.
And it might be that time where you're going to go down the street
to the hemp farm or the cannabis farmer and be like, yo, I need a half pound.
I'm making olive oil for salads, making,
making a grapeseed oil for salves, and I'm making this for this and this.
And hey, do you got any calendula flowers and what else do you grow?
So here's a funny thing.
We're talking about that.
You and I are going to hit it off great.
You guys, we're going to hit it off great.
I'm a very sustainable and regenerative local farmer.
And I'm very into growing with K&F, and that's kind of one of the things
that I preach, so I'm always working with things.
I'm always going out into my lawn, picking dandelions and using that for like FPGA,
which is nutrients for the plants.
Or even our local orchards, my dad's a you know, he's an
agricultural farmer.
So we get we get all of our apples and everything like that from him
and that we live in.
And there's a place called Los Hernandez.
It's a they make tamales there.
And it's a James Beard award winning tamale.
You get asparagus tamales two weeks out of the year.
Well, that gives shit away to right then the location.
Man, I'll tell you what, me and Carla will drive the four hours,
two hours from our house just to get those tamales when it's asparagus season
in the center of Washington.
Oh, yeah, I'm going to have to check those ones out, that sounds delicious.
Yeah, but yes, I have eight over there of quite a few times.
They have excellent fucking tortillas.
Some of the best is around.
You just got a James Beard award like two years ago, man.
He's gotten the word that I wouldn't dream of getting.
So I thought it was really funny when I was checking out your page the other day.
I'm that guy that's going out in his lawn, picking dandelion leaves,
using those for FPGA and stuff like that.
But when you were talking about salt and pepper, like that being the basis,
like you want to be a chef, you want to cook, you want to do this, but you don't
even don't even know where your salt and your pepper, some of the things that we
use the most in cooking.
And I saw pictures.
Are you growing peppercorn?
Well, we have we have peppercorns, but they're the reverse peppercorns.
So it's a Sichuan peppercorn.
So you don't use the corn, you use the husk.
And it's the one that makes the lips tingle.
It's got a chemical in it.
I forgot the name of it because you put me on the spot.
Damn it.
I have a habit of doing that.
I'm sorry.
But it's it's so it's the reverse peppercorn and you only use the husk of it.
So here in we live in the southwest corner of our state and it's kind of you
can only grow certain things.
And that peppercorn tree does really well over here.
It's actually a bush the size of the house.
So it produces more than we can we can harvest.
We actually moved some of it to a friend of mine's winery so that he could get him
going because he wants to do he wants to distill it down because of its lip
tingling qualities.
But it works the exact same way as like a peppercorn does just with a little
absolutely more bitter.
And then when you get into salt, we live here.
Yep.
You use a ton of it's our basis.
You know, it's like like I said, it's the basis that like the cooks that used to
cook for me, they used to I used to come onto the line like, you know, a half hour
before dinner, check everybody's set up, check everybody's stuff, check all their
consistency, all their products.
And they used to have to go through a mashed potato test and they hated it.
Because it was something simple.
It was mashed potatoes.
But I was like, listen, if you can't make mashed potatoes, right, how are you going
to make my forty five dollars steak right?
And then you're going to make thirty forty five dollars of steaks a night, right?
I don't believe in that because you can't make the mashed potatoes right.
So why don't you make the mashed potatoes right every night for four years, then
touch the steaks.
And I wasn't really harping like that, but I really wanted people to get the point of
if you're not consistent with the things that are on the bottom that you think are
the bottom, you're never going to be able to hold it onto the top when you get there.
You know, and that's like what I say about salt and pepper.
They're the basis of our food.
You really don't need nothing else.
Some water, some vegetables, some salt and peppers.
You know, you talked about dandelions earlier and I was approached by.
I love dandelions.
I was approached by a friend of mine during the COVID lockdown.
During the COVID lockdown, and he said, hey, Sebastian, I need you to come on a show for
me and cook.
And I was like, OK, cool.
And I'll just let you know this was the vice president of High Times, John Capetta.
And he said, you're going to see 15 million people in your 45 minute segment.
And I was like, what'd you say, John?
And he's like, yeah, you're going to see 15 million people.
And I was like, all right, this is going to be great.
This is really my opportunity.
So I'm sitting here with my wife's got the computer.
Pressure's on.
And everybody's got everything all set up.
We got all the filming equipment here and all that.
And they cut to me and I bring my phone for the cut screen and I'm in the front yard and
they're like, oh, we're here with Chef Sebastian Kroese and it looks like he's in his
front yard. Where'd the kitchen studio go, Sebastian?
And I was like, well, you told me I could make anything I wanted.
So I'm going to make country fried dandelion flowers with milf style ranch.
And they're like, dandelions, dandelions with milf.
And John goes like, mother, I'd like to fuck ranch.
And I was like, yeah, like the one down the street that you always go on the fuck, man.
So I proceeded to make country fried dandelions for 15 million people on 420 last 420
for during the COVID lockdown on High Times virtual thing.
It was pretty funny.
I don't know if you and I'm not trying to brag, like if you've seen the last two recipes
that I did for High Times, but they don't ask me to put what everybody expects High
Times to want as a recipe in their magazine.
They are expecting the Rice Krispie treats, the chocolate, the this, the that.
And the past past recipes that I've done for them are salads, avocado toast, things like
that, things that really let people know that there's another level that we can cook with
cannabinoids, cannabis, fresh cannabis, processed cannabis.
And I know there has to be everything, even the products that I dislike.
You know, I can sit here and bash this and that, but my grandmother is going to get to
an age where she can't make her own infused olive oil.
You know, she can't go to the garden.
She can't do this and she can't do that.
And when that time comes for my grandmother, your grandmother, me, you, anybody else that's
thinking about their health and their life, I want there to be reputable products on the
shelf, not products like, and I'm not trying to bag on, you know, Coca-Cola or soda, but
I don't want the Cokes and Pepsis on the cannabis shelf.
And I know there's going to be, but there needs to be room for the medium sized guy
and the small guy all at the same fairness across the board so that the people can make
the choice because there is levels of buyers that are out there, you know, and there's
there's there's people out there that think my ****** is not guilty, but I mean, sorry.
I'm probably going to have to edit that out just so I don't get sued.
But I'm a firm believer that there's a reason why we're at where we're at.
And I won't like I said, I won't stand behind products when there's a question behind a
person behind it or anything like that without having to name anybody.
And it just it it makes me feel better, you know, as a as a chef.
I don't know if you know my story, but when I was 17, I grew up in the Puget Sound in
Seabeck, Washington, and I had a lot of growers in the area and my English teacher was a
grower and I found out that cannabis had a value and I really didn't know.
I didn't smoke cannabis at all.
You know, and he'd be like, here, give me a half ounce and it's stinky and ****.
And I was like, oh, my God.
No, my friends were like, where'd you get that?
And I said, I can't tell you.
And then finally, he got to the point where he was like, hey, can you deal with these
five pounds?
Can you deal with this five pounds?
And I was like, yeah, probably.
And he'd be like, OK, give me the money.
And then it'd be like, can you deal with these ten pounds, ten pounds?
And I was like, yeah, cool.
I got a boat.
I started driving across the Hood Canal where I lived and going to Benino, going to
Brennan and actually was making like two or three runs to through Day Bob Bay to
Victoria, like twice, three times a week.
And I didn't know the Coast Guard was watching me.
So I got caught and I got caught with thirty two pounds of cannabis in the little
fishing boat. And I got a seven year sentence.
So I from my 17th, 18th and 19th birthday, I was at Walla Walla in Washington state
penal system at the Washington state penitentiary.
Now, and I moved from Walla Walla to Klalam Bay, which is another closed custody
facility up in Klalam Bay and right up on the overlooking Victoria Island where I got
caught, believe it or not, that they did that on purpose.
And then, of course, McNeil Island and Monroe.
I was at a few other penitentiaries.
So as a 17 year old, I did five and a half years in the Washington state penitentiary.
And then I got out and went to culinary school in Portland.
And as I was finishing culinary school, I noticed that the paperwork to do my
internship was at the presidential estate in Walker Point, Maine, where I have family.
And I was like, this is cool.
I'm never going to get this, but I'm going to apply for this shit.
And I was the first one they called.
And I was like, what?
I got to fill out top secret paperwork.
And I called my mom and I said, Mom, you know, I know I've I know I fucked up when I was
a kid and I got in trouble, but they're asking me on the paperwork if I've been
convicted of a felony and I feel like lying.
And she's like, just don't lie this time.
Just really just don't lie.
You know, and I was like, I need a job, mom.
I'm broke.
You know, and she's like, just don't lie.
Don't lie.
Just put it on there and see what happens.
You've had plenty of times where they told you no go because you put it on there.
And so I put it on there and they're like, OK, can you come for an interview with the
Secret Service on Tuesday?
And I was like, what?
I said I was in prison for five years.
And they're like, can you come for an interview on Tuesday?
And I was like, yeah.
And they said the company that you work for, Kate Porpoise Kitchens, will they vouch
for you? And I said, I'm in prison in Zarcoze of France's house three days a week on a
private contract. I think I'll be OK with the Bush family and I have nothing political,
you know, and then then they pull my jacket from prison, make sure everything was good,
everything was good. And then so I ended up doing three days a week at the Bush
residence in Walker Point and then right across the sound from him or Peninsula or
Ithmus or whatever it's called is President Zarcoze of France, the former president of
France property.
And I would do three days a week there.
So it was kind of cool because I went from prison to two presidents, one of a foreign
country and one of our country.
And I would sit in the back of their houses and smoke weed every day that I worked
there. And it felt really good.
But I never thought that we were going to move mainstream in my lifetime like we are
right now.
That's pretty incredible.
Wow, man. And now you're doing stuff locally to us, too.
You while we were on break, you were talking about the papaui.
Yep. Is that how you say?
So believe it or not, the papaui is a native term of how and it's the only people
that have a word for it is the native folks.
And it is it means the force of which mushrooms are pushing themselves out of the
ground overnight.
That's what the word papaui means.
So it's really weird because they're the only people that have a word for it.
We don't even have a word for it.
I tried to dig up, you know, my my ancestors are northern Italian from Abruzzo.
And I tried to dig up.
There's a lot of what we would consider witches and people really associated with the
land from where I come from in Italy.
And they don't even have a word for it.
So the natives and specifically the natives here in the Pacific Northwest had a word for
the force of which a mushroom pushes itself out of the ground overnight with.
So the papaui definitely for me means something.
And this event is held going to be held in November 12th, 13th and 14th on the Long
Beach Peninsula of Washington.
And for those that know psilocybin mushrooms, that's actually the psilocybin mushroom
capital of the world in November.
You can forage for psilocybin azorescent, which is a wooden most psilocybin dense
mushroom on the planet, believe it or not.
I think it was discovered.
I know people discovered it prior, but I think I know Paul Stamets from Fungi Perfecti
here in Olympia, Washington, our local hero mycologist.
Yeah, I've actually hung out with the sun as several times.
So he was the one that coined the psilocybin azorescent and named it the Azzi.
So our 27 mile stretch of beach in the Long Beach Peninsula of Washington is actually
Azzi capital of the world, especially in around November.
You will see people from all over the world converging on it.
I've lived there.
I operated several hotels and restaurants there, one being James Beard's old favorite
restaurant and hotel.
And I every year go and pick between six, eight, 10 pounds of azorescent and dry them
and use them in various different things, just like cannabis.
I like I microdose daily that going to prison at 17, you know, it's kind of good.
These stories ran together, but going to prison at 17 crushed me.
It gave me PTSD like you wouldn't believe.
They changed all sorts of things about a child's life and perspective.
So.
I live with PTSD today, and psilocybin really helps me get through that.
And I microdose daily and I really like the conversation that's going to have to
arise soon.
I know we're talking about the Pahowi, but the conversation that's going to have to
arise soon is like the conversation that arose a couple of years ago, you know, sun
grown or light, you know, light depth, you know, all this between the cannabis world
and indoor, outdoor.
And that's lab cultured psilocybin or wild psilocybin.
And I treat myself with both.
But part of the psilocybin therapy that I helped push 109 and I-34 with in Oregon for
the decriminalization of psilocybin is part of the therapy is getting out there and
finding the mushroom.
You know, if you spend three hours out there in the dune grass, just nature, that's
part of the therapy that a lot of people that have PTSD and depression are missing.
And it's like you look at the list that they give you, you want to crawl out of your
depression. The first thing to do, go for a walk.
And it's like, hey, fuck.
Meditation.
So go for a walk and hunt for some mushrooms.
And then the other thing is, is that when you're out there in the dune grass and
you're able to find a freshie, a mushroom that's fresh in psilocybin, I don't mean
one that's been dried in a hydrator, dried in the sun from a laboratory, but a fresh
psilocybin dense mushroom and put it in your damn mouth and eat it.
Don't make tea. Don't make anything.
You know, a lot of people are like, oh, I'm going to go to Brazil and I'm going to do
this ayahuasca and I'm going to drink iboga and I'm going to do all this.
And it's-
Hey.
I wouldn't mind.
There's nothing wrong with that.
And I have nothing wrong with that.
But I believe that from where my ancestors came from in Italy, we didn't have any of
those things. We had psilocybin mushrooms.
So I believe therapy should go back to where your ancestors originated from.
If you've got some Latin in you, then explore those things.
But if you don't, don't explore those things because they're not made for you
chemically. So the psilocybin for me-
That's a very interesting point.
I think people are going to have to start paying attention to these things.
You know what I'm saying?
Logistically, what I was trying to get at is-
Well, most Americans are a big melting pot, though.
And, you know, they're just a mixture of everything.
So delve down deep.
Oh, both of my grandparents are from South America.
OK, I need to be doing ayahuasca.
Or, but my grandparents are islanders or they're this or they're that.
You know, nobody needs to be licking a fucking frog because that shit is-
There was nobody that was licking frogs except for people in Arizona when they told
us what we were getting.
So I have a question for you really quick.
Sorry to cut you off there, but it goes hand in hand with this.
So one of the things that I've always talked about, my theory on this, as far
as what foods are good for you, what type of cannabis is good for you, I feel that
most people have that sensory memory where they're attracted to a certain like
terpene, a certain flavonoid, where their body says, hey, you need some more of
this or that's why you're craving something like this.
And I'm glad that people can now tailor their medicine.
Before, when we were living on the black market, it was like a strain name was
just something we used to sell what we were getting from the dude we were
getting it from. Oh, yeah, this is OG Kush.
This is vanilla fucking thunderfuck.
And, you know, and it's like it was just like a sellable of a sellable point for
bag appeal. But now it actually matters.
Now, with the medical industry prior to the rec industry for eight, 10 years in
Oregon, people can actually say, you know, you were saying something about Blue
Dream. And it's like, you know, like that DJ short blueberry that came out of
Eugene, Oregon has led its way into all the blue strains.
And that's because those med growers, you know, and I'm not a grower, but I do
follow genetics, especially old genetics, especially land race genetics, because
I have to tailor my.
Yes, we are going to be best friends.
I have to tailor my medicine, too, because it's like I just don't smoke weed.
You know, Carla, we got like we've smoked live resin now for the past probably
four years. Solid just live resin.
I haven't smoked flour for 18 to 20 years after prior to that for the past 20
years. It's been B.H.O.
You know, for 15 years, it was some raspy ass B.H.O.
from up here in the Pacific Northwest.
But it was all we had.
And it was way better for me to smoke B.H.O.
20 years ago off a swing plate than it was to try to smoke flour because I had to
smoke two ounces a fucking day to get where my head needed to be.
You know what I mean? And I knew that back in the day.
But the psilocybin micro dosing kind of took away from that or like how much
cannabis you need to consume.
Carla and I smoke about a gram and a half between the two of us of live resin a
day. She tends to go for the more gassy type of
gassy wet style live resins.
I like like right now I'm smoking lemon sour diesel because everybody in Vancouver
grew that for like eight years in downtown Vancouver here.
So I was used to it. It's that particular the lemon sour diesel.
Really nice for me.
I enjoy it. She's smoking Agent Orange, I believe.
Yeah, I like California Orange.
I like all those other strains.
Carla grew for a long time, you know, so she's well versed better in the genetics
and the things around here. I just know what the black market had for over the past
25, 30 years here in the Pacific Northwest and then, of course, throughout the
country. But yet the combination of good live
resin and psilocybin therapy and
trying to eat right, trying to do all the other things right.
Well, that those are the best things you can do.
And nobody, no matter if you're getting a paycheck from Warner Brothers
Studios and have multi millions in the bank and the biggest house, those people feel
bad, too. Those people have ailments.
There's no separation between there's no they're not better than us because their
house is bigger. Their fucking bills are bigger.
Everybody is the same.
Everybody is a. Yeah.
So and we all have our different paths in life, and some people just go there a
little bit quicker. Yeah, totally.
All right. And some people have different expectations.
So my expectations out of cannabis is and even
psilocybin, but moreover, cannabis, because we're not legal in all states right now.
We're still got ways to go.
And that the we need standardization everywhere so that people so
everybody's grandmother in a different state isn't having to worry about a different
rule and not worrying about.
The other thing is, is that in my states, two states, Oregon and Washington and in
California, I lived in California growing up, too, and they pushed it even quicker.
Medical in California is that we legalized and recreationalized in these states under
the auspice of medicinal values for cannabis.
But yet all they are selling us is sugar.
You go into the dispensaries and the pot shops, man, and it's bad and we have to have
conversations like this so that at least two people go, oh, wow, wow, there is a lot
of candy. Wow. They just added popcorn.
Oh, wow. And chocolates and oh, wow.
And this and that. And it's like, wow.
How about just weed?
Before we get going, I wanted to touch on a couple more points with you, this Pacific
Northwest Papau.
Yeah, it's sorry.
Sorry we got lost on that for a second.
You know, the oh, you're good.
The biggest things for us holding this event is that you're we like to call them campers,
people that attend our events.
Campers can can actually walk outside of their room in their hotel in November, right on
the beach in the dune grass and forage for wild psilocybin.
We're going to have the release of the fantastic fungi community cookbook.
I contributed five recipes to the cook community cookbook.
It's the cookbook that follows the movie that of Louis Schwartzberg, Eugenia Bone and
Paul Stamets did.
So it's kind of a huge deal for me.
And I'll be creating for the we'll have forays so people will be able to go and buy
people will be able to go and forage for King Boletes, Aziz, saffron milk caps, violet
quartz, some other mushrooms.
The porcinis or the King Boletes are highly prized by a lot of the culinarians.
But for those that want to find a source of psilocybin therapy right there as close as
possible, it's a huge educational event to be able to recognize wild psilocybin or any
mushroom in the wild is good.
It's like, you know, the growers that walk up to a plant and they're like, well, this
is sativa dominant, huh?
And I'm like, what?
Huh?
What?
Huh?
You know, it's like the mushroom world is still like that to me.
I only know like 17, 20 mushrooms from this area and I stick with them because they've
kept me alive this long.
But the events really to throw a party for the release of the cookbook, because that's
a huge deal and bring foragers and like minded people together.
You know, we just hosted the auto flower cup in August.
And that was, you know, a lot of people with camp.
A lot of people don't know what root rouse is, but yet you can talk to 12 of the 30 tier
one growers in Washington and they're like, oh yeah, we're testing some autos out, man.
We got four acres going and it's like, oh, you mean you're testing your abilities to
make more money out is what you're doing because you're you're able to run three crops
now and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
So we hosted the auto flower cup, the second annual auto flower cup in August at an oyster
farm. And we like to do these immersion educational style events where we bring people
not from say like this event we did.
We brought not only auto flower growers, but we brought mushroom enthusiasts.
We brought chefs.
It was on an oyster farm.
We had native prayer in the morning each morning.
Lots of speakers.
This is kind of going to be mirrored after that, but more driven towards the azorescence
and the Long Beach Peninsula and wild edibles there.
Nice. What kind of mushrooms do you like to use that you can find out in these areas?
Me, my favorites, my favorite is started last week and it is the Pacific Golden
Chanterelle, the White Chanterelle and the Cascade Chanterelle.
And we actually have a Rainbow Chanterelle here, but I don't go after those.
I only get like two or three.
But like Carla and I picked probably about twenty five, thirty pounds just the other
day. And this weekend we're going to go to the lowest Lewis River Falls in Gifford
Pinchot and look for some mushrooms down there.
But it's Chanterelle season.
It's my favorite. As a chef, everybody goes for a lot of the more exotic, more expensive
harder to find mushrooms.
But a Chanterelle is one of the most exquisite in taste, one of the most versatile to
use. It doesn't have any bugs.
Naturally, it's got it's immune to any bugs, so you don't have to worry about any of
that shit. You know, it's got these beautiful apricot tones to it.
It's easily pickled, easily cooked and easily eaten for anybody that's like, oh, I
don't like mushrooms.
So what would you equivalent the flavor of a Chanterelle?
It's like it's its own.
It's like I couldn't pinpoint if you ask me what a Porcini or a King Bli tasted like,
I would like it like the woods, like the good part.
A good point. Like the earth it's growing in.
Like you can pull out like if your palate's really trained, you can pull out some like
apricot undertones, some nutty, nutty, nutty undertones to it.
But nothing in particular. It's really where and how that Chanterelle was grown.
This past weekend, we picked white Chanterelles.
And I'll tell you what, they're like, they're going crazy this year because of the
weather. The weather each year we get a new like flush of what's going to come in a
heavy thing. Like two years ago, we drove over where you live because you had a lot
of wildfires and the morels, the burn morels were prevalent over there.
I was going to say, that's pretty cool that you're into the Chanterelles because
everybody around here is about the morels.
Yeah, no, see, it's actually my it's not my least favorite, but it's my my least
favorite is a big, big King Bli or Porcini because it's going to be buggy when I got
to dry it. And I like some of those you just want to slice and eat.
But I like Chanterelles that are no bigger than my thumb, not big and floppy eared.
And I love morels.
Don't get me wrong.
I don't like burn morels a lot.
I like true morels more.
I like blondes better.
I love lobster mushrooms, although I don't we don't eat a lot of them, but I love
lobster mushrooms, cauliflower mushrooms, lions mane.
We usually don't find lions mane here.
We find bear's tooth.
You get oyster mushrooms and cordyceps.
Oh, no, no, no cordyceps, but we get lots of oysters like you can just.
So here's the thing, Carla gets mad because like I'm like played out on mushrooms like
I've like seven years of picking oyster mushrooms, so I'm like, I'm not going to
pick damn oyster mushrooms.
I'm waiting for Chanterelles season.
I'm going to be lazy.
You know what I mean?
It's just like, no, no, no, no.
We need it every season.
But yeah, I I thoroughly love going out.
Anytime you want to head out this way, you're more than welcome.
Yeah, I'm stoked.
I love that.
I think you and I, we vibe together pretty damn well.
And it sounds like we we have a lot of the same similarities.
We definitely need to do another podcast together.
But before we get going from this one, I wanted to talk to you.
Maybe you could shout out like a quick recipe for our listeners
that they can try at home.
I know one that I was interested in was that you put I'm not a big drinker.
I'm really not.
I appreciate a nice scotch every once in a while on a special occasion.
And I like me, Shalottis.
Oh, yeah.
And you posted about a marijuana Misha.
Oh, yeah.
Tell me about this.
So you can do it in two ways.
Actually, one of my favorites, like I said, build a cannabis pantry.
You know, if you like absinthe, make some absinthe infused.
And if you don't want to make it in the machine, do it the old way
and just decarb some bud.
Put your favorite rum, whiskey, liquor
into a mason jar with the decarb bud and let it sit there.
Alcohol is got acid in it.
It's got alcohol and it's going to it's got extraction opportunities available.
You know, everybody I know, and I'm going to veer off for a little bit.
What about with a beer, though?
Because that's only what, three and a half to I think the max
that we have in Washington is like eight.
Yeah. So with that, you would really you want to add it to your other ingredients.
You want to add to your salt.
You want to add it to your, you know, whatever you can get it in
in that situation.
We in particular have it in our hot sauce.
So that's the way that we made that.
OK, I'm saying.
So you're you're making your hot sauce with the vinegar.
Exactly. And actually, the hot sauce that I made
was not only made with cannabis vinegar, it's two tone.
So it was the peppers were fermented, then decarb weed.
The peppers and liquid was added to the magical butter machine,
which is I put it on no heat at that point in time and just did the puree.
Then I put it on low heat, which is about 60 and did an hour.
Then let that cook.
Then I just strained it out.
No particles of blood or no color left because I used white heel peppers.
They're all dark.
So you can't even see if there was flakes of butter in it.
But then now it's double tone.
It's got the decarb.
Are you trying to bring that flavor through a lot of people don't like it?
A lot of people are.
They're really scared of it.
And a lot of people will get like a little toothpick of RSO on their tongue
and freak out, be like, oh, my God.
And it's still on my tooth. And oh, my God, I love it.
RSO can be bad.
You can have bad RSO, but there's some really good.
But some people like they are like, you know, it's like some people like,
oh, I want to smoke cannabis, but I don't want to smoke it.
And or I oh, I want to eat cannabis, but I don't want to eat it.
And it's like, just make up your mind and get over your fear hurdle
and just say nobody's died yet.
And you're not the room's going to spin.
You're going to want to go to sleep.
That's the worst thing, you know?
So, yeah. So with the beer, I would definitely make some hot sauce
and then made your red beer out of that.
And you can if you want to make the sugars in this
and the salts out of alcohol based tinctures by any means,
you can and just add layers.
What do you find yourself typically substituting sugar with?
I know you shouted out honey, agave nectar.
But I'll tell you what.
So, OK, I'm a type one diabetic.
I just became a type one diabetic.
I was a type two diabetic like a year ago and just became a type one diabetic.
And are you going to talk about the sun syrups right now?
I got a jar out there right now.
Oh, yeah.
Sun syrups and agave nectars and all that, that those are really the ways
that you can and if some people are like me and they can't get away
from like a little bit of sugar.
And actually, I need to have it around to direct my sugar, believe it or not,
because if you're up, you're up.
If you're down, you're down.
You need sugar one way, you know, one for one and one for the other.
But I would if people can get move away from the hidden sugars,
they don't necessarily need to take the sugar jar off of their counter.
But if they can get rid of the if they can just be more conscious
about the things like like a hamburger just isn't a hamburger.
The bun has got like 30 grams of sugar in it.
But if you go to a non sugar bun, like say an egg bun,
like a Hawaiian roll or a potato bun or some, they've even got less sugar in them
because they're made with another ingredient like a potato.
Oh, yeah. And potato bread is like the best.
Totally.
I just recommend people think, think about what they want to do,
think about how they want to do it and think about what level of
convenience they want to work with when it comes to cannabinoids
and having that pantry available and buying products.
Yeah, absolutely.
And on that note, I think we will end the podcast.
I want to thank you, man.
We definitely have to do another episode of any time you like.
That I think I could talk to you, you know, for hours about this.
You work with so many amazing things, if you guys have not.
Familiar familiarized yourself with Chef Sebastian, go check him out on what's
what's your Instagram is Chef underscore Sebastian underscore Kurosi.
And we have Camp Ruta Rallis as another page.
But usually if you go on to my page, the chef underscore
Sebastian underscore Kurosi, you can find out all about the events
and all about the things we like to do.
We do random pop ups here and there.
We do all sorts of stuff and we travel a lot for education.
So we're all around the country pretty much throughout the year.
Very nice.
Awesome, man. Thank you for coming on.
Thank you for sharing a couple of recipes with us.
Your beliefs in sustainable, sustainable cooking, lowering sugar
intakes, being organic, regenerative and locally sourced.
We really, really appreciate it.
I'll tell you what, Doc, it's really easy when somebody can jive with you
in the conversation, it's not just a one sided conversation.
I got to tell you, I appreciate that. Absolutely.
Anytime, man. Thank you.
Hi, everyone.
Grow Green Daddy here.
Thank you all for listening to this episode of the Calix and Crew podcast.
What an awesome episode that was.
We thank Chef Sebastian Kurosi for taking the time with Doc
to share some of his knowledge, advice and stories with us today.
Check him out on Instagram at Chef underscore
Sebastian underscore Kurosi.
Hey, before you go, have you heard about the Calix Crew Discord yet?
If you're picking up what Doc's putting down or maybe your plants
are a bit how you're going and you need some advice,
come check out the Calix Crew Discord.
We have channels set up for all types of cannabis related content,
along with our members sharing stories, advice, humor
and most of all, encouragement for one another to grow.
It's free to come check out, meet the crew, catch a vibe and chat with Doc.
If you do enjoy your time with us and you want to join up as a member,
you'll receive access to all content channels, do or dab competitions,
game day giveaways and more.
We've given away some amazing prizes recently,
such as seed from Romulan Genetics and Swarmy Organic Seed.
You'll also receive access to the Patreon for more exclusive content,
including Doc's specialty, Korean natural farming.
Membership is only 10 bucks a month.
Head over to Doc's Instagram at Doc underscore Calix,
where you'll find links to the Discord, Patreon
and information on how to join us in the Calix Crew.
We'll look forward to seeing you all soon.
