Good evening everybody and welcome to another episode of the Calix and Crew podcast.
Before we get started, I want to give a quick shout out to Coconut Sensors.
Coconut Sensors has one of the best sensors on the market right now.
Their retail value of only, what, $69?
You can pick up a sensor that checks your humidity,
your temperature, your VPD,
and I heard from Anton coming here soon.
He's also going to include not only the chart for the live VPD,
but CO2 as well, which is very, very nice.
Today's episode, I'm highly stoked for.
I've been anticipating this for a very long time, very long overdue.
He just did a podcast with the James Loud Show,
Romulan Jake of Romulan Genetics. How are you doing?
Good. How's everybody doing?
Good, man. Very good.
It's an awesome day.
We finally got some heat over here today.
I got a little bit warmed up.
I rolled up some sour diesel for this,
and I just wanted to talk to you.
We've been talking about doing something like this for a very long time,
and today is the right day.
It's been a while.
Today is the day.
Oh, yeah.
So before we get started,
not all of my listeners are going to know who Romulan Genetics is,
the story behind Romulan or anything like that.
Why don't you introduce yourself really quick,
tell everybody who you are,
what you do, what your company is about,
and what your goal is?
I'll try to remember all of this.
So, hi, my name's Jake.
I'm the owner of Romulan Genetics.
You can find us on RomulanGenetics.com.
I've got an Instagram under the same name.
I've been around in breeding for going on two or three years now.
I forget.
In 2015, my father passed away,
and as part of him passing away,
Romulan clone that was kept in our family,
which wasn't known as Romulan by our family,
was handed over to me, and it was kind of...
The torch was passed, and I was told to keep it alive
and do well with it.
And I started by giving clones and cuts away for a long time.
And then eventually, people just kept pressuring me,
you know, hey, you got to make seeds, you got to do some stuff.
So I started doing it just as a hobby,
and I got such great positive reaction.
It turned into far more than that.
It's kind of become a life-calling passion more than a hobby now.
I'm really stoned right now,
so I'm going to try to remember.
I remember you said my goals,
and then there was something in between,
something in between that maybe I missed there.
But as far as future goals, I don't want to...
I've got a small little roadmap plan
that I've been sticking to for the past few years
of things that I, you know, right when I kind of set my mind
that I'm going to do this and do Romulan genetics,
I came up with a bunch of stuff
that I knew I wanted to breed it with,
that I knew I wanted to try and see what it would come out like.
And then I had some other things that were personal projects
that I wanted to do.
And so I've been sticking to that roadmap,
and I've got, I don't know, about another two or three years left of that.
And I figure once I get done doing that,
it has a lot to do with making as many rake seed lines as I can,
along with a few feminized versions in between
to kind of keep people happy that allow them to grow those.
But my plan is with the rake seed stuff
is to get a decent stable for me to work from
so that over the next 10 years and a couple of years from now,
I can start stabilizing those lines,
the ones that I like the most,
do some things where I, you know,
pheno hunt and find some really nice unique ones
and make feminized versions of those for people,
but try to eventually get to where I've got about
maybe a dozen IVL versions or close to that.
And that's my long, long term goal.
But that's stuff that will, you know,
we're talking at least 10 years beyond that
for me to just get a few things available at that point.
That's awesome, though, man.
You got plans already to take
what your father bestowed upon you
and put your own signature on it.
I love that.
I love it.
I wanna take a step back really quick
because you just said something
that I hadn't heard from you before.
And that's that your family didn't know it as Romulan.
Right.
What did you know?
So it was just basically,
because back in the day that weren't really,
when I was growing up,
and this was in the 70s and the 80s,
we didn't really have as many names for Bud.
It was really about the location where it was from.
You know, there was Maui, Waui, and a few exceptions.
But for the most part, you were talking about,
you know, Alcobolco Gold or Columbian Red.
And it was called Red because the hairs were red
or Gold because the hairs were gold and where it came from.
And this was called Pine Bud.
And there was a mountain nearby
where I grew up called Pine Mountain.
So some people would call it Pine Mountain Bud.
People that were close to my father
would call it G. Doves Bud.
Those were the initials.
And it was mainly because it smelled like pine
and nothing else.
And some people just referred to it as the Pine Bud.
That's awesome, man,
because that's exactly how I came to know it.
Before the name Romulan came by,
it was Port Alberni Pine Bud.
That's what we always-
Right.
And when I first got into this,
I didn't know about that.
That was stuff that I had to learn
early on getting into this and talking to people.
And I said, you know, there's a much deeper history
than what you can kind of just look into on the internet.
And then I started talking to my pop's friend
that hadn't passed yet
and getting more information from him.
And that was where I learned a lot more about all of this.
Because initially it was just that,
wow, I know this plant's great.
It's fantastic.
I gave it to some friends.
And then the word coming back was,
I mean, it's a lot more than that.
And people don't really have this anymore.
So you have to try to get it to as many people as you can.
Did that feel like a huge burden?
It did.
It went from this really kind of small thing,
like, you know, no big deal.
I'm sure I can keep it alive, you know?
And I've got my dad's friend that at the time
he was still alive and I can talk to him
and he can tell me what to do if I've got questions.
And it was real, you know, carefree, you know?
And I remember my first harvest and I just was floored
at how good it was.
And I, you know, okay, this is,
I'm gonna keep doing this.
This is great.
This is kind of what I've wanted to do my whole life,
is have my own grow that no one fucked with.
And so I can definitely do this.
And then as soon as I started giving
some of the flower to friends,
then people started asking me for the cut
and I started giving that to them.
And then, you know, months down the road,
they were coming back to me saying,
you can't just keep this to yourself.
You have to get this out.
So the burden really kind of got heavy at that point.
Because I knew that wasn't something I was prepared
or wanted to do or capable of at all.
And I started just giving it away to people.
And I was on forums and eventually people said,
oh, you know, go on Instagram.
And I got on Instagram and was trying to find,
you know, people that wanted it,
that had the biggest grows that I could find on there.
You know, big outdoor grows and stuff
and people that were in California,
as local to me as I could find.
And I eventually got to give it to Dark Heart Nursery.
I gifted it to them.
And I kind of had this fantasy that, you know,
it's only gonna take them a couple months
and they're gonna be, clones are gonna be everywhere.
And it was years later before they even did
their initial release.
During that time, I had people asking, you know,
can I get seeds from you, can I study?
I have some old ones, but I don't really wanna give them
away, this is all I have from my dad.
So it doesn't really go well with me.
How old were you when he passed that cut to you?
This was in 2015.
So I'm damn near 50 now.
Okay.
So it wasn't that long ago when he actually passed it to me,
but I grew up around it and I was,
I can literally remember in my diapers,
being around it.
It was around before I was born.
Well, you said it was a long-term project
between a lot of guys.
Yeah.
So did you have any growing experience prior to your dad
giving you this cut?
I had not all on my own.
I had grown up around growing and cultivating
and I'd helped a lot of friends do things,
various different growth, outdoor closets,
all that kind of stuff.
Many, many times, but I had never, it was never my growth.
It was never from beginning to end,
no one else was doing it.
It was always just kind of,
I'm coming over to a friend's house
and we're doing it together at best,
or it was I'm giving him advice.
So it wasn't really ever my growth.
There were several where I was involved enough
where it was, this is our pot and everything.
We in the room were saying how we grew this,
but it was never my own
and it never felt like I knew what I was doing.
Well, that's a lot.
It was such a burden then.
Yeah, exactly.
I had a decent amount of knowledge
and I had a lot of access to everything I needed to know.
But at the time I knew enough to get started,
that was about it.
Right.
So now you're kind of down the line for a while.
You did an awesome job at preserving those genetics,
I guess, and now you're hybridizing all these things
to find new things to hunt through,
to kind of take that Romulan staple
and put your own signature moves on it.
And I love that.
I gotta say that Fritter Bomb that you made recently,
if you would have caught me any other time,
I would have just called bullshit.
Like with a lot of cookie stuff, I usually call it bullshit.
But we do our hype strain reviews
and on our hype strain reviews,
we did smoke that Apple Fritter.
And that was one of maybe three of the hype strains
that I've ever smoked that I was like,
that one's actually really decent.
Yeah.
And Lumpy's who made that,
and he's pretty local to me here too.
So that one was special to me that Katsu chose that
because it's a guy that I don't know him personally,
but he's not far from me.
And I think he created that in 2010 or 2012.
It's been around here for a long time
and it's just now starting to become this big hype thing.
So it's been really cool to watch that process.
So that one was really special to me
and I was fingers crossed that that was gonna turn out good
and it blew my mind how good it actually turned out.
If you've smoked Apple Fritter,
you know it's pretty potent stuff.
Oh yeah.
And the two of them together is, it's real good.
And the taste is amazing.
I think a lot of people that are kind of Turk chasers
and into flavors are gonna love it just because of that.
But because it's so potent and so strong.
How did it change your flavor profile?
It's not exactly the same as it smells.
You know, a lot of things don't.
But it's got a real good sweetness to it.
And it's kind of the best way I can describe the smoke
because for me, I have a harder time
kind of pointing down flavors than I do smell.
It's kind of like smoking a sweet candy
that's got some kind of cushy, piney ganja type,
you know, flavor in the background to it.
But it really, it's like, it's almost like smoking candy.
I'm trying not to dip back into it
and smoke some other stuff
because when I get stuff that's that tasty,
I'll smoke an ounce every few days.
And I can't smoke like that.
That's too much weed.
Preserve it a little bit.
Yeah, I'll just be sitting on my couch like a zombie 24 seven.
So let me ask you,
when you were looking at putting your own signature on this
and finding things that you were gonna breed
with the Romulan,
what were the boxes that you had?
Like, what were you looking for?
So that one's real easy.
I want Romulan that tastes different.
I wanna be able to have some options
to smoke different tastes.
I love Romulan.
I smoke it all the time.
I smoke it every day.
I've been smoking it for years straight
and I never tire of it.
But it's nice to smoke stuff
that tastes a little different every now and then.
But most of the stuff that I go out and get
or I get from friends or I grow myself
that is a totally different profile,
I don't really like smoking it.
I like the taste of it.
10 minutes after I smoke it,
I'll go and smoke Romulan
because that's the high that I wanna feel.
I don't wanna feel whatever it was that I just smoked.
So that's the first category of that
is make a bunch of things,
or try to at least,
that affect me just like Romulan does,
but have a different taste to it, different smell.
And then I wanna have,
after that I wanna have things
that are far more sativa-leaning
or far more indica-leaning.
I wanna have stuff that's better for,
so I just wanna zonk the hell out or watch a movie
or be really couch-locked.
Yeah, or stuff where I wanna be
almost like I'm on amphetamines or something,
cleaning my house, mowing my lawn and doing everything.
Right.
Yeah, I wanna have that broad spectrum
because I like everything that there is
within the cannabis world for smoking.
So first it's flavors
and trying to stick with stuff that hits me
just like Romulan.
And then the second it's stuff that's,
it's close to the Romulan effect that I can get,
but leans far more in one direction than the other.
No, this is why you and I have always got along
is because you're very fucking real with what you say.
You're not trying to promote yourself out of nowhere.
You're just telling it how it is.
And the fact that you're working with Romulan in this way,
because it's something that you love to smoke
and you wanna take that to different lengths
that are still gonna work good for you specifically,
that means that you're breeding for what you like.
And you're actually putting that intent in it.
And that's gonna come forward in your work.
I hope so.
I can't remember all of them.
I go through so many seeds all the fucking time.
I got so many friends that do this.
I forgot everything that you had crossed the Romulan with.
What all did you pick other than the apple fritter?
So for the Katsu collab,
he made those selections.
That was all his choices.
And I think he may have tried to choose things
that he knew I would be interested in too,
because he did make a lot of selections
that were right up my alley.
And in fact, two or three of the things that he crossed with,
he didn't know what I was doing at the time.
And we made the exact same crosses.
We both made a roadkill skunk and Romulan cross.
We both made a great vaping Romulan cross.
And that was, I think, one other thing.
We both did the exact same thing.
And on one or two of them, I think the great vape,
we were using the same cuts.
So we were literally making the same cross.
The roadkill skunk I hunted mine from seed
that I got from copycat, which was,
I know some people have issues with that,
and I don't really give a shit.
I had some people I highly respect said,
it doesn't matter what you hear about him.
If you're gonna grow something of his
and you like the old school shit, get his roadkill skunk.
And it was a guy that's been growing for 30 or 40 years
that told me that.
And then someone else repeated it.
It didn't have quite as much cred in my world,
but I heard it from several people and I went, okay,
I'm gonna get it.
And they were right.
It was legit and it was fantastic.
But I found one that was,
the one that I chose was not quite the skunkiest.
That wasn't the best selection in that area,
but it had a really nice structure,
had a really massive yield to it compared to the other ones.
And it didn't have as much of a branching issue or anything.
It didn't need any support.
And so that was my selection
because it was a real nice breeder.
I wasn't going after it just for the skunk profile.
That's awesome.
I really appreciate strong branching.
You too.
I try not to spend too much time in the grow room.
Of a lot of breeders list, they want a good structure,
but like if all the progeny,
they're either weak and limpy or strong,
they don't really mind too much.
And it makes it a lot less work
when you've got something that yields really nice,
that's not flopping all over its fucking self
and needs to be managed on a daily basis.
Yeah, I can't help because of my personality
with being kind of OCD with my growth when I'm doing them.
And so I'm in there almost every,
when I'm breeding, I'm in there every day,
checking every single plant,
looking, trying to literally with my eyeballs and hands,
look at every node, every portion of it,
going over the whole plant to make sure
nothing's going wrong, nothing's, you know.
And if you trellis things and have all kinds of supporting,
that gets to be a huge pain in the ass
to even get in and prune and trim and things like that.
So I can't stand the fact that when my Romulan cut
is a pain in the ass in that sense,
you have to support it, you have to trellis it
in almost every type of growth.
And it's a lot of work in that sense.
So I try to, when I'm breeding with it,
I already know that that's an issue.
So I try to choose things that are gonna
not continue that as much as possible.
Awesome, exactly.
That's exactly what you wanna do is,
you know, with every outcrossing that you do,
you wanna take what you already had and make it better.
The point isn't to go backwards.
So the fact that you're breeding
for those weaknesses within it,
that really shows your passion.
I appreciate that.
Thank you, Dylan.
So it's a learning process.
And I kind of thought getting into all this breeding stuff,
I was like, you know, there'll be some failures.
I'm sure I've heard that, you know,
but I figured probably most of the stuff,
because if I choose right,
most stuff I make will be great, you know?
It's been like maybe a third, 30%,
25% of what I've made has been,
okay, now this is actually a stuff
that I can sell to people.
We're gonna take a short break
and we will be right back with Romulan Jake
of Romulan Genetics.
Stay tuned.
Hey guys, while we're on short break,
I wanted to give a quick shout out
to one of my favorite sponsors,
one of the best affiliates that we have on the show,
Coconut Sensors.
You guys can find them over on IG,
over at Coconut Inc,
or you can find their website at www.coconut.com.
That's K-O-K-O-N-A-U-T dot com.
I believe their sensors retail at $69 each,
and it's such a cool little device, guys.
I cannot praise them enough.
I use them in all of my rooms,
especially at that price.
You can't really beat it.
They are battery operated.
The batteries have never ran out on me,
and I've been using them for over a year now.
I believe I heard that the batteries can last in them
for up to two and a half years,
but that comes with the price point.
What Coconut does, it's a pretty amazing little device.
You can get an app that works with it on Google Play.
You can get it on the Apple Store,
but what it does is it connects your climate data
to your hands,
so you can tell what's going on in your environment
if you need to go away for a while,
if you need to take a vacation,
whatever, you know what's going on inside your grow room,
and it'll help you keep track of keeping everything
where it needs to be within VPD values.
It's pretty amazing.
It tracks it.
You can bump it.
You can find it.
You can refresh it at any point
and see where your humidity levels are at,
where your temperature's at,
and where your VPD's at.
It's a pretty damn handy little tool.
You can add multiple sensors on the same app,
so you can check your bedroom.
You can check your clones, your seedlings,
your mother's, your flower room,
whatever you need to do.
Awesome, awesome, guys.
Awesome retail value.
I cannot say enough good things about them.
I heard they're also going to be incorporating CO2
as well soon,
so I'm very much looking forward to that.
I believe that is going to be a bit higher price,
but not much, not much at all.
But with the CO2,
I believe he said it was going to be running a higher power,
so it is actually going to have to use
a wall plug on that one.
Either way, we love them.
We support them.
One of the best sensors for one of the best price points.
If you guys aren't looking to go out there
and spend $300 on a sensor,
but you do want to keep control of your climate
in different grow rooms,
I would highly suggest Coconut Sensors.
Go give them a follow over there.
That's coconut.com one more time,
www.coconut.com,
or you can find them on IG at coconut, Inc.
Huge shout out,
and let's get it back to our episode
with Romulan Genetics.
All right, we're back with Romulan Genetics.
Before we left, we were talking about
some of the people that you were collabing with,
like Katsu.
You did the release with Katsu.
Who else were you thinking about collabing with?
I've talked to quite a few people,
and I've, for a while since I started this,
I've had a short, specific list of people
that I wanted to work with.
Katsu was on that list before him and I even talked.
So I was really excited to work with him,
and that's turned out to be pretty amazing
because I see what most breeders do with a collab,
and they make maybe one or two strains,
and that's their collaboration,
and then they move on with their lives to other things.
And that's what Katsu and I were gonna do,
and it ended up turning into really big projects
and ongoing and years worth of releases.
And we're talking about doing more things,
and so it's almost becoming more of a long-term partnership
than a collaboration, and he knows a lot.
So I'm learning a lot from it too,
and getting to see crosses with stuff
that I've wanted to see for years.
And he just went and did it and got it done,
and I get to see it, so it's really fucking cool.
But did that with him, and I'm talking with 13 Hills
and UFO Genetics, I think those might be the next ones.
I don't know exactly if both of them are going to happen
or what's gonna happen with them
because we didn't get too deep into specifics with it,
and it's been a little while since I talked to UFO Genetics,
but I recently got my cut into Paul's hand.
He's the guy who runs Nucleus Seed Bank,
and he's really good friends with the guy from 13 Hills
and the guy from UFO Genetics,
so he's gonna try to then get my cut into their hands.
And so those should be the next two people
that I'll be doing one with, hopefully, if things go well.
I've talked extensively to Gage Green Group,
and it's been about a year since I've talked to them,
and we never really got into specifics.
I haven't heard that name for a while.
Yeah, I was thinking the same thing.
They've just kind of been quiet for a bit.
Hopefully, that means they're hard at work,
and I'm sure it does.
But I've talked to them several times.
I talked to Ethos a little bit,
and both of those I was pretty excited about,
so I hope to maybe one day
get talking to them again about things.
I think that's it as far as what will actually happen.
There've been several other contacts from other people
that things probably won't happen,
because you can only do so many things at once.
Yeah, you can't fight too many wars on different fronts.
Some people can, but I'm not the kind of person
that will ever, I'll never be dropping
two or three new strains every couple weeks.
I'll never do that on a consistent basis for years.
Some people drop things like that,
and that's not how I work.
I like smaller batches,
just so I can really pay attention to those few.
I take on too many projects,
and your mind starts going all over the place,
and it becomes a little bit fuzzy.
Yeah, I usually try to stick to one or two,
and that's how I've done most things in the past.
I just recently bumped it up
and did five different crosses at once,
and ribbed feed stuff,
and it was a little bit too much for me.
I didn't like it,
so I probably won't do that many again.
It's too hectic having to pay as close attention as I do
to all the different plants,
and when they're all different, that's harder to do.
You kind of have to go row to row type thing,
and a lot of times my plants will get mixed up,
so I'll be trying to look at the tag,
tick with the same cultivar till I get through them,
and then move to another one,
but then that gets too hard to do.
Yeah, no, I hear that, man, for sure.
So out of all these collabs that you did with Katsu,
what would you say were the top three
that you personally, you were like,
I really appreciate this one?
So we did, the first one was a year ago,
and it was a feminized seed line,
and he did basically about the same thing
that we did with this current release
coming up with the regular seed line.
He did like a dozen different cultivars.
He reversed my Romulan and let that dust all these things
he'd been growing for a while and working with,
and several of those, we hardly got any seeds from it.
We didn't get very much at all,
and there was only enough from two of them to release it.
So we released Old School Dank,
which is kind of like White Romulan.
It's the white Romulan, and then we released-
Thanks for the explanation.
Yeah, and then we released Space Field,
which is East Coast Sour Decent and Romulan,
and both of those were top notch, just fantastic,
but we didn't have that many packs.
We didn't have that many seeds.
It was pretty limited release.
I still have several packs of myself that I kept for my golf.
That stuff was really, really good,
but there were 10 other cultivars
that no one really got to see or smoke,
and I think only a few testers got some stuff from Katsu,
and most of them were fantastic.
There was a Black Lion Bubba Kush in Romulan
that was about the most potent stuff I've ever smoked.
I mean, it would like,
felt like I got hit in the head with a frying pan,
and then I would just basically pass out
10 minutes after I smoked it.
Is that a good thing or a bad thing?
No, no, it's not a good thing, really.
I guess you're saying it doesn't sound like it's up your alley.
For special occasions, yeah.
You know, I guess if you get home
from a hard day's work or something,
then that's exactly what you're looking for.
Oh, yeah, oh, yeah, sometimes.
But it was just remarkable in how potent it was,
and its taste was really good, too.
But there were several of those things.
On the regular seed thing that I just test ran,
I'm smoking all the stuff of it now,
and there's a few, there's two that haven't quite finished up
their long-winded 12-plus weekers.
So I'm waiting for those before I can talk about those.
But the Fritter Bomb is probably,
for what's going on in the industry right now,
is probably the best one of those.
That would be what I would pick as number one
if I'm trying to appease everyone with my selection.
It's not my own personal number one,
but it's the easiest to grow,
just about the highest yielder in that room.
And I ran 12 different cultivars.
It was really, really high yields.
Really pretty plant, really frost-covered,
really potent, really tasty,
just crossed all the different boxes off
that people look for these days.
It looked really exotic and shit like that.
That one was probably the number one.
Right now, number two for me is Vapor Trails,
which is the roadkill skunk and Romulan,
because it's got that old-school flavor to it,
and it's extremely potent on the indica side,
and I don't smoke a lot of harder indica shit.
I just try to, when I have stuff like that,
I only smoke it at night.
So it just doesn't feel like I'm smoking that much of it,
because all day long, I'm smoking Romulan
from about an hour after I wake up until I go to bed,
and sometimes I'll smoke a bowl every 10 minutes.
I smoke a lot.
I smoke a lot, a hell of a lot.
Sometimes I feel like I have to,
because I have so much weed on me,
that I have to keep smoking that much,
because otherwise, what the hell am I gonna do with it?
It's eventually gonna go bad.
Well, yeah, I was gonna say something there, but I can't.
Put a marker there.
You can put a pin in that one.
So yeah, Vapor Trails, number two,
and probably the Stonks, which is UW and Romulan.
That'd be my number three.
Wow, nice.
I didn't even think about that one.
Yeah, and that's because my choices
are kinda gonna be a little different.
The Head Dimp is awesome, that's Headband and Romulan.
All of them are really good, that's the thing.
They're all so good that it's kinda hard to really choose.
And so most of them, it's like,
well, this is a lot like that parent or this parent.
And so it doesn't impress me as much
as the ones that are very unique in their own right.
The ones that came out much more like a true F1
are the ones that I've got my eye on.
It's like, wow, those are special.
Those are really cool.
Because when you look at both parents,
they're coming out as pretty evenly
as something in between a mesh of the two,
and quite unique.
And the Stonks is really, really special.
You're saying that F1, the blend between both parents
is very dominant in that?
Yes, exactly.
It takes over the leaners.
Yeah, whereas most of the other stuff,
things were in one direction or the other.
There really wasn't as many phenos
that showed up that were in between.
It was a really nice mixture of the two parents.
That's what most of them were.
You can tell that leans more towards Bromelain,
or you can tell that leans more towards Atmosphere,
just as an example.
That's not a good example.
It's driving.
So, yeah, and the Stonks one was really interesting
because there was this really off, smaller plant
that finished really fast.
And I got to smoke it early on,
and it tasted exactly like great blunt wraps.
Nice.
Like, really strongly.
So, when you smoke a bowl of it in a glass piece,
it did this really strange thing with your head
where you're like, am I smoking blunt wraps?
Like, I don't understand what's going on here.
And people in the room, too.
Like, the first bowl I smoked, I blew out,
and someone walked in the room,
and they're like, are you smoking a blunt in here?
You know, and I said, well, it's just sweet.
Everybody has a different perception
of what something tastes or smells like, you know?
And some of those can be fucking hilarious.
And it is interesting.
It is interesting to see,
because I do get some people
that have grown my Romulan cut, and specifically my cut.
They've got it from Dark Heart Nursery.
Every now and then, I get someone that they're like,
oh, it tastes, you know, creamy vanilla,
and something totally different
than what everyone else tastes.
And I'm like, really?
And can I see a picture of the girl?
And they show me a picture, and it looks fantastic.
They did a great job.
And I'm like, they must just have
kind of like a different, you know,
profile in the way that their body takes it in.
I remember when I did my first, and it was horrible.
I didn't have a handout right off the bat, you know?
Nobody gave me any cuts.
Everything I had, I had to work from seed.
But the very first cross I did,
I just was not happy with it by the time we got to F3.
It just wasn't stable.
But we had-
I think I saw you talking about that.
But we had all the testers growing them out,
and it was very heavy on the skunk side of its family.
And all the testers, by the time we came to harvest,
they were saying, oh, it's really, really earthy, skunky.
Or it was, there was some like sweet, skunky phenotypes,
but everything was like overall very skunky.
Had a little bit of Hawaiian in it, so you'd get that too.
But we had one tester that said, it tastes like mint.
I was like, is it dry?
Just totally off the wall, it throws you off too.
You're like, oh shit, really?
I mean, you know, you went pretty far off the spectrum.
One guy had me hunting for like a pheno
that I wasn't gonna find in mine for a while.
Oh no.
And then we got talking about something else,
and he goes, yeah, this tastes like this to me.
And I'm like, what?
Wait a minute, you know, that's everyone's smoking.
It wasn't OG, it wasn't OG,
but it was something like that
where everyone universally says
this is what it tastes like, you know?
And he was like, nah, no, it's totally different for me,
but I'm like that with so many strains and so many things.
And I was like, oh, shit.
Yeah, true.
Okay, well I'm gonna stop talking then.
Something I don't know about here.
That sucks, man.
So how long were you hunting for that one?
It had been like, I was probably three grows,
so like nine months.
No!
I made a cross, one of the first early things I did
that never released it was the hog with Romulan.
And it was insane.
I remember.
It was really, really good,
but it had a very high intersex rate.
It was like 30% somewhere around there.
And so I couldn't release it.
So I was trying to hunt through it and find better things.
But I'd had people that did test grows,
and they were like, no herms, fucking crazy yields,
like the biggest I've ever seen,
and super potent, super potent.
Some of the best stuff I've ever had.
And one guy, because I wanted to call it alien bacon
once I realized I was gonna cross him,
I just kind of had that name stuck in my brain.
And one guy said, no shit,
I have a pheno that tastes like bacon.
And I was like, I gotta find that.
So that's what happened.
I was looking for this bacon pheno,
and there was no bacon phenos to be found.
There wasn't anything close to it.
I kept looking, though, thinking.
Yeah, I've been looking for that too.
That's awesome.
Bacon?
Right?
Who doesn't like bacon?
I love bacon.
Everybody loves bacon.
I mean, not everybody, I guess, but yeah.
They should, they don't know what they're talking about.
I've gotta be the PC one.
I gotta put another marker now.
There's probably countries
where they don't even know bacon, and that's just, that's.
I know, goddammit, more markers.
We should have a bacon across the world program.
We'll start, and it'll give out bacon
to underprivileged bacon countries.
Oh no, you gotta cut that one out.
I'm enjoying this, man.
Thanks for joining me and doing this.
You said it was gonna be a session, smoke and be relaxed,
and that's exactly what I'm being, so.
So is there anything else
that you wanted to talk about on the show, man?
I don't wanna like force your hand or anything.
I mean, I don't know, quantum physics.
I don't know, what do you wanna talk about?
Well, you know, now I kinda wanna talk about quantum physics.
You got some shit or what?
I mean, yeah, I can go pretty deep
in a lot of different areas, yeah.
Okay.
I've done a lot of reading and stuff throughout my life,
and my beliefs are very.
Motherfucker.
Let me start with what I believe in.
Okay, so I believe that I'm a Christian,
and I believe that most of what's written in the Bible,
all that what's written in the Bible is true.
Most of it is interpreted truly.
It's the best way to explain it.
You don't want me to have a podcast today.
But, no, no, no, no, listen.
This is important, and you can air any of this podcast.
I studied Orthodox Christianity,
and what I was taught by the people
who was teaching me in Orthodox Christianity,
which is an older form of Christianity,
is that there is room within Christianity
and believing in God and all of that
for Bigfoots, ghosts, aliens, wormholes,
portals, time travel, anything.
Anything, because God created everything,
and as humans, we shouldn't question what he's created.
Amen!
We should examine it and do our best to interpret it
and all these things, but we should not ignore it.
We should not deny it, and we should not question it,
because if he created it,
it's not our job to question what he's made.
And that was one of the first meetings I had,
and this was kind of something I was being forced into.
I was going into a marriage,
and they said, you have to be Orthodox Christian.
So I was going into it a little hesitantly,
and I asked him these questions,
and I said, what about these things?
Because I've read the Bible.
I do believe a lot of it,
but there are some issues I have.
And I explained my issues, and he said,
well, most people look at that the wrong way,
because they don't realize with God, there is no time.
So a lot of what you're reading
that's being explained as time
isn't time how we see it.
It's how he sees it.
Oh, yeah.
So maybe a day is a million years.
Maybe it's a billion years.
Can you build a universe?
Right, so he's like, a lot of people don't realize that
in reading it, and they misinterpret things,
and they take it the wrong way,
and they take it too literally.
So I have spent my whole life studying
all these different things, and I firmly believe,
I've seen UFOs, I've had very dramatic Bigfoot encounters.
You had a Bigfoot encounter?
Yes, I had one throw a rock back at me on my property.
It threw a rock back at me.
I'm not joking.
What?
I'm dead serious, and where it was,
I'm in Bigfoot country.
I haven't seen Bigfoot.
It's not where people would have been.
There's no other explanation that I can plausibly
come up with, because it wasn't people I was dealing with
that were in the forest next to my property.
My dog was going nuts, my dog that doesn't bark
at people ever, never loses his mind,
and he was going ape shit.
Oh, no.
And there was something moving in the bushes
about five feet from my fence, and it's a fence
that's just wrought iron, you can see through it.
And I couldn't see what the hell was there.
And then something else moved 15 feet away to the right,
then something else moved way over here,
and I knew it, there was, now I'm dealing
with multiple things, because that one thing didn't move.
It's still there, making noise.
And so I started talking and thinking it was people,
and I got no response, nothing.
And I'm armed, and so I pick up a rock,
and I throw it high arc up in the air
to try to have it land behind whatever is out there,
to hopefully get them to at least make a movement
so I can better know whatever's out there, where it is.
And as soon as the rock landed, a rock hit right next to me,
there's a huge pine tree that's like,
you can't even put your arms around it, big around.
A big rock hit the tree right next to my head,
about 16 inches, 18 inches from my head,
and bounced off the tree right behind me, almost hit me.
So it happened, I ain't Bigfoot.
That's the only thing I can come up with,
because I turned on the light after that.
At that point, I really kind of got scared shitless,
and I started trying to flashlights and spotlights,
and there was nothing there.
And it's not, it's hard for me to explain,
but it's not a place where people would be.
It could possibly be, but it's not a place
where people would be, and they certainly wouldn't be there
at two o'clock in the morning, a group of them,
without flashlights, without anything,
and able to move from the area
without making as much noise as,
there's all kinds of sticks and branches,
and whatever was there moved away silently.
It just wasn't there anymore.
I heard very minimal movement, but I knew it was moving,
and then it just wasn't there.
I don't know how to explain it.
It was either a ghost that threw a rock at me,
and many of them that were just fucking with me,
and my dog could see them,
and it made the whole property smell weird,
or it was Bigfoot.
No, I just love how dead-on serious you are right there.
Or it was Bigfoot.
Yep, I had other people here
that was witness to it with me, and they all said,
we all. Don't let me make fun of you.
I mean, everybody has fucking encounters of some kind,
or I'm just the worst fucking skeptic,
and it's probably because you and I both
have that OCD problem.
But I'm the worst skeptic ever,
and I try to explain everything.
And Miss C is completely the opposite way.
And I've seen pans fly across rooms before,
just all kinds.
It's a long story.
I'm gonna have to tell you about that sometime.
I actually went to college at what had been recreated
from a old mental hospital,
and they turned it into a college.
And there was just some crazy shit that happened there.
But even Miss C, she loves ghosts.
And she's like, and you don't believe in ghosts?
And I'm like, a ghost would literally have to walk up
to me and say, what up?
You know, and I'd be like, all right, you're real.
But yeah, there is shit like that,
and it's just like, there's no explaining that.
Like seeing a knife go off a three-foot counter
through my buddy's rubber boot.
Like, yeah, you don't have enough velocity to do that.
Yeah, and once you've seen something like predators,
you're like, you know, okay, how do I explain that?
Yeah.
So anyway, we talk about cannabis sometimes, right?
Yeah, yeah, let's just get back on subject here.
Let me ask you.
This is what happens when the weed you're smoking
is too good.
That's good, though.
Way off track.
At least it means we're smoking good stuff.
Because you and I are both in this, I love it.
This is by far one of my favorite podcasts I've ever done.
I feel like we're sitting on opposite couches
in the same room.
Yeah, and that's how it should be.
That's how it should be.
That's how I've always done it.
Even back on when we did like all the IG live shows,
that's all it was.
We were just sitting there smoking,
talking about weed with everybody.
And it should always be like that.
That's what I love.
That's my passion.
It works that way.
Yeah, that's how it flows, you know.
It reminds me of, you know, my younger days,
just going over to a friend's house.
His friend's coming over to your house just to smoke,
you know, and you'd sit there for hours.
He's playing low in the background,
just chatting, laughing.
That's what I'm shooting for.
Talking about whatever.
So I did want to ask you one question
that we always ask all of our guests.
And this one I'm super interested in
because there's a few options now from what you've said
that you have to pick through.
But we always say, if there's one,
I don't like to say strain anymore.
I hate saying strain.
I've been saying type.
Cultivar.
Type variety.
Cultivar.
Well, I think cultivar more as like, not a type.
I find a type is more like your Fritterbomb
crossed with Romulan.
And then your cut would be the cultivar, right?
Yeah.
Like that.
That's how I found it.
So.
Spot on.
Okay.
I mean, you know, I question myself all the fucking time.
So I don't know.
I agree.
If we're going to get technical about it,
that's spot on.
Yeah.
So I like to ask people, you know,
out of everything that you have,
everything that you work with,
if there was one type to represent your company
and what your goals are, what would you say it was?
One to represent Romulan genetics.
Jesus.
The tough questions.
I mean, I can obviously just be easily simple Romulan,
you know, because it's my favorite.
And I smoke it all the time.
But you're putting your own signature on that.
I have to say, I'm torn between two.
One is Communion that I made,
and I made a rake seed and a feminized version of it.
I don't think I ever released the rake seed version
but that's, I want to work that further
before I do any releases of that.
But that one was really, really good.
And I put a lot of work into it.
I started by crossing two other things first
and working those and then cross that with Romulan.
Can we just fix the time to do that?
Yeah, it was a grape stomper OG and Durban poison,
if I'm remembering right.
You could go read my website or something right now
and go, no, it wasn't.
I'm sorry, I have a bad memory.
I'll take you to the next one.
Because I've liked both of those
and I was excited just to cross those two together
for some structural things.
I wanted to see if I could bring over
that the trichome production of,
and the bud size and stuff from the grape stomper
into the Durban poison
because that's just a gorgeous plant to me.
And I love growing.
What about that flavor?
Love the flavor too.
It's great.
I mean, anything that's older is just right up my alley.
Basically, if you go through the history of cannabis,
once you get the headband,
that's kind of where I started checking out
on these things taste great to me.
Everything after that just wasn't as good as the older shit.
You said there was two, right?
Between the communion, which was that,
and that came out with a really good grape candy
or a wine kind of flavor.
And it was just delicious, really, really potent,
but a nice, like you can chill on it
and relax the indica high,
but it wasn't like gonna put you to sleep.
So I spent a lot of time listening to albums
and stuff smoking that.
I tore through, I think I had like a half pound of it
and I smoked it in a couple of weeks or something.
It was just a stupid short amount of time
that I smoked all this weed to myself.
That one was really great.
But the first thing that I made,
it ended up, it started as a polyhybrid project
and ended up being a double polyhybrid.
I made, called it Ring of Fire.
I did a Feminize release and I did a F1 release.
And that one probably best represent,
stands for who I am and what I do.
That's awesome.
Yeah, I'm gonna work that further
and release like an F4, F5 if I get antsy.
If I don't get antsy and I can be patient,
it'll be an IBL by the time I release it again.
Good.
But who knows how long that could take me
because there can be setbacks and all that shit.
So that one I think best represents me
because of the fact that that's the first real thing
that I made.
That's what I set out to make.
And I ended up with a double polyhybrid,
which if you know about breathing,
that's it's far more complicated,
the more things you do when you're doing that.
And it was, it was all over the place.
I had so many clones,
I didn't know what the hell to do with them at one point.
I was, I mean, I was jam packed.
And that was how I wanted to start learning to do this,
was to try to get the most difficult stuff
out of the way first,
so that everything else wouldn't be a challenge
in a sense it would be enjoyable.
I'm really proud of that creation.
It was something I spent a lot of time on
and I didn't say it was like a secret.
I didn't tell anyone for a long, long time what I was doing.
And then when I finally released it,
I kind of did it all without much notice
when I first dropped it.
I did like a real limited release at first
and gave it out to a bunch of people as testers.
That one I think best represents what I do
and what I want to do.
Because if you've grown it and smoked it,
the feedback I've got from everyone
is they absolutely love it.
There's a lot of people that have keepers they found
and that's what they continue to grow.
It was a really, really good smoke.
It was a really, really, really good smoke.
And I'm like, sit here and go,
God, I got to grow some of that again soon.
But I think that's probably the one
that best represents me.
Communion, I would say also is there
because a lot of the stuff that I will be doing,
not so much as a personal project for me,
is going to be like that.
The stuff that I try to appease people with
is going to be more like communion.
The stuff that what I want
is going to be more like ring of fire.
It's going to be stuff that may be unruly to trim.
It may be a pain in the ass to grow,
but I'm not going to care about that
because my ultimate, I can grow something, it's fine.
I care about how it smokes.
Nothing else matters.
I don't care what color the leaves turn.
That's stupid, they trim off anyway.
I only care about what it smokes like.
Ring of fire was, it was finicky,
it was pain in the ass to grow,
she was a super pain in the ass to trim
because there were leaves and frost everywhere.
But the smoke made it all worth it.
I do try to do a lot of stuff
because I have people that are close to me,
friends and stuff that say,
hey, when you cross things, will you do that?
There are some things that I'm choosing,
working things through.
I made a Mac one and a Runts cross with Romulan.
I crossed the Mac one and the Runts together first
and worked those and made a selection.
And then I crossed my Romulan
and I'm calling it burning cap.
And that's a strain that I'm probably going to be releasing
somewhere within six months from now, sooner.
And I did that project solely because I had pressure
from like three close friends
to work with those two cultivars
and work at it with Romulan.
And two different people were specifically,
one was asking for Mac, one was asking for Runts.
So I said, fuck it, I'll make them both happy.
And I'll start by crossing those together
and then I'll cross that with Romulan.
And I think it turned out pretty good.
Yeah, I think it turned out pretty good,
but I never would have done that at all
if it wasn't for people asking me
and if it wasn't for some of my followers saying,
hey, I would love to see a Runts and Ronwul.
So there are some things that I do do.
Yes, and that's so it never would have seen a light of day
if people wouldn't even know about it if I would.
Yeah, so that's all that matters.
There's a lot of stuff I've scrapped.
That, you know, like for example,
I didn't like it when I crossed just Romulan with Mac one.
I thought that might turn out okay
because I thought it would look good and it did.
Okay, so you did try to out cross it with both things too.
Yeah, and the plant sucked and the smoke sucked
in my opinion, it just,
I would be saying the same thing
if those people who could be offended were in the same room.
I would be staying in front of them.
So I can respect that.
And it's a lot easier when it's that way.
Cause you know, when someone gets offended,
you can explain yourself and be like,
no, no, no, I apologize and all that if you can't fix it.
Yeah, but I don't want to make your day harder.
Yeah, no, I know I've been dealing with that long enough now
where it doesn't really trouble me as much anymore.
Especially when it comes to-
And I still don't want to fucking deal with it.
The offending people drama thing has gone very well
for me lately when it's happened.
I had a Dojo Seedstone Ninja.
He put a post up, I didn't know about it.
People were like, oh my God,
coming at me talking all this shit.
And I'm like, what the hell is going on?
And they're like, you can't call this strange Coldstone.
Cause he had made a strange name.
I remember that.
We didn't know about it.
I forgot I was-
Him and I, yeah.
And he just put a post up and he wasn't trying
to start shit.
He even said that in his post,
but his follower blew up on him.
And I got all this backlash.
And so then I'm like, hey, hey brother.
I sent him a DM and we just start chatting
and everything was totally cool right off the bat.
And he was a great guy.
And I'm like, we'll just change the name.
It's not a big deal.
We haven't, you know, it's months from release.
Doesn't even have a date yet.
And he's like, cool, cool, no worries.
I mean, you can keep the name if you want.
I don't really even care.
So he was super chill and everything worked out fine.
We just changed the name and there was like no drama.
But for a couple of days on Instagram,
you would have thought, you know, someone's grandmother.
So let's end this.
How are we gonna end this?
All right, man.
Well, fuck, I wanna thank you
for coming and joining me on this.
Yeah, thanks for having me, man.
I know you haven't done very many of these.
You don't really like speaking publicly
or anything like that,
but I hope this really helped you break out of your shell
because you and I have been talking for a while now,
especially about doing something like this.
It definitely helped.
I'm happy as hell that you finally came out
and that you were able to talk about this
because your story is special, you know?
And it's something that needs to be out there,
especially just you as a person.
I respect you as a fucking person.
And I don't say that about very many people.
I appreciate that, true.
I really do.
And thank you for having me on.
I know you and I kind of talked about
maybe doing something else.
As long as it's not immediately,
I'm definitely down to do this again soon.
Like I said, I need to catch up on my sleep.
What an amazing episode.
I hope you all enjoyed it.
Jake is always a great person to talk to.
Him and I always click.
And it's a never ending source of entertainment
talking to him.
And we look forward to having him on the show again soon.
Before we get going,
I wanted to give a quick shout out to our Patreon.
That's right, we have a Patreon.
It's only $10 a month.
Gives you all access passed to our Discord
and it gives you write ups
as far as learning how to grow with KNF.
I am merely your guide in cannabis.
I'm not gonna teach you how to grow cannabis.
That's something that people need to realize.
You are the one that's gonna teach you
how to grow cannabis.
I am simply there as a helping hand
to help guide you in whatever style of growing
you decide is best for yourself.
We do have write ups consistently on how to use KNF,
how to slowly incorporate it into your grow
if you're interested in transitioning into those methods.
All kinds of great stuff.
I also wanted to give a shout out to all my guys
that are over there following me already
on the brand new Discord.
Charlie Brown, Covert Dylan, Farmer Fly,
Funtime Grower, Grow Green Daddy, Harshie83,
Husky Gardens, JTrain, Country Green Thumb,
Farmer John and Twisted Gardens.
These guys are all joining me on the brand new Discord.
They're learning all kinds of stuff.
If you're wondering if it's worth it,
go give them a follow on IG,
ask them what they think of it.
It is a great, great community
and we've been having tons of fun over there.
We have all kinds of threads,
anywhere from a general chat,
soil building, genetics, making different teas.
We have a suggestion box
so you can tell us what you want to see.
Of course, we've got the show off threads,
joints, dab art, all kinds of good stuff.
We even have home gardening threads,
a place to promote yourself, to talk about growing,
to talk about harvesting, plant training,
IPM, making your own concentrates.
We even have our own connections thread
to help connect people that are in our Discord server
with people that are close to them.
And I think it's an amazing tool
and I would love to see more of you in there.
You also have access to all kinds of seeds.
We invite our breeders or our interviewees
on to our Discord server for a video chat
after the show typically.
And these guys have been winning awesome seeds.
They've been winning seeds from Suomi,
from Canna Queen, all kinds of good stuff.
And I hope to see you in there.
So if you did enjoy the show, send us a like,
send us the share, shout out the show,
share it with a friend that you think might enjoy it as well.
And until next time, I love you all.
I appreciate y'all.
This has been Doc Calix with Romulan Genetics,
wishing you a very good night.
Stay growing, people.
