Good morning podcast listeners.
What is up everybody?
Welcome to another exciting episode of the Calix and Crew podcast.
I'm your host, as always, Doc Calix.
Very exciting episode today.
The Duke is back.
That is right, ladies and gentlemen.
We have none other than the man himself,
Duke Diamond on the show,
known for his work with heirloom skunks,
Afghanis, the purple dahlias, beautiful.
We used to grow the Munson and the Polkat 91,
those both amazing strains.
We're excited to get in here.
We're excited to talk to him.
But before we do, I want to give a quick shout out
to one of the show's sponsors, Stoner Days Apparel.
You guys can go over to shop.stonerdays.com,
use code CALIX, that's all caps, C-A-L-Y-X,
for 20% off your order at checkout.
They have all kinds of stoner-inspired apparel,
tie-dyes and psychedelic stuff.
We have dab mats for them.
We have posters.
We love everything that we get from shop.stonerdays.com.
Go check them out.
Now, without further ado, let's learn about living soil.
Let's talk about some of his cultivars.
Let's talk about his work
with organic and regenerative practices.
None other than the Duke himself.
After a minor fuck up, we are back with Duke Diamond
of Dominion Seed Company.
How are you doing, man?
Goddamn hippies.
For the first time in podcast history,
I forgot to hit the recording on Duke's audio,
so we've already gone over this.
Anyway, we're gonna pop back on course here.
I know you for your work with your skunks, your Afghans.
When we fucked up that recording,
you were talking about blueberry
and how you'd got some blueberry.
You started growing when you were 13.
You're working with skunks, you're working with Afghanis,
and then all of a sudden you're buying blueberry seeds
from a seed bank.
What were those blueberries that you really liked?
So starting off with the old original varieties,
like from my cousins that I grew up with and stuff,
skunks, Afghans, and I'll skunk,
evolves into later, you know, you're looking at what's hot,
like the newest of the new.
It's a real exciting time.
We go into the widows,
and then eventually we evolve into the years
where the blueberry was coming out.
Like you said, you were talking about, you know,
the excitement back then, you know,
getting the money order, trying to hide, not get caught,
just to get the damn seeds over, you know,
take two months or whatever.
And we finally get these blueberry seeds.
I found good stuff.
I didn't find that crazy.
People used to call the blueberry yum yum, you know?
But like I said, friends,
they had a friend that I guess did, you know,
and you get to smoke some of that.
And I mean, it was off the charts.
But my favorite, favorite one of all time,
I had a blue moonshine that was like fucking drugs.
Like, I mean, just so, so strong.
It's done so bad.
It's still in my top 10 list of all time.
Nice.
Just insane.
And unfortunately, that was one of the ones
like he did away with,
because I talked to him at a show one time,
and like, hey, what's up with that?
He's like, oh yeah, I'm bringing it back.
I'm like, why would you have ever gotten rid of it?
And he was like, well, it was a stepping stone.
It was just a step in a long process.
Cause you know, DJ, he does a lot.
He works the shit, you know?
He's not in a hurry, puts the work in, you know,
the dude really gets it done.
So he said, yeah, I'm working on it.
So that's one thing I gotta check on, you know?
He's like, yeah, it'd be a couple of years.
So I'm like, all right, well,
it's been a couple of years for sure.
I have a long year.
So I know you haven't been going out and about,
socializing and partying.
So what's up with that blue moonshine, dude?
So it was supposed to, like, I remember the description.
It was like the blue side of the widow family
or the white, or he called it the white family.
You know, I know it's some white widows
and my God, like little cush plants,
all like super, super dark purple, almost black
and just this pungent, it smelled purple.
If that makes any sense.
I mean, it was like the smell purple,
but so pungent man, like chemical pungent funk.
It was just awesome.
It grew awesome.
And just the potency of it was just knockout.
I love that shit.
Did it take more after those moonshine traits
or did it take more after the blue traits?
It was, I can't really honestly speak on it
because I never had his, what he would call like
pure moonshine or any of that,
but whatever that project was, I mean,
it was like if you had like the most gnarly
of the blueberry type funks, but more, like I said,
just the color purple, man.
That was the selling point.
Oh dude, it was just ridiculous, man.
And like I said, it's so potent, just knockout shit, man.
And like that was my all time favorite,
you know, delving into those lines, you know,
I grew that, I grew the great crush.
And when I was, when I grew, it was Azure Haze, I think.
Okay.
Tried that one, but yeah, nothing like that blue moonshine.
Oh, that's 13, I almost forgot about that one.
But yeah, nothing like that.
Nothing like that blue moonshine though.
Nice dude.
I feel like I don't hear you talk about
some of your favorite strains, you know,
I've heard you talk about a lot of your cultivars
very often, but we don't hear very much
about like what you like.
And that's a big part of growing is like,
you're taking other people's stock
and trying to find stuff out of that too, right?
Yeah, and that's the thing is like,
some guys are just like all about,
oh, I like this, so let me get seed breeder A
and seed breeder B, and I'm just gonna sling it together
and I'm gonna sell seeds.
I've never been really that type of dude.
I do my work and then other people's work.
Well, that's their work and I like their work.
You know, it's a done deal for me.
I'm just gonna grow it and grow it and smoke it.
But unfortunately, when you really get into breeding
and stuff, I mean, all your space
and all your time's taken up with it.
As far as delving into like newer things that people make,
it was all like taking a back burner
for like retirement day or something, you know,
and then I'm gonna jump into those.
But there was a lot of stuff that I liked,
you know, just like to grow and just, you know, smoke it.
So there were just clones that were in the room
and it's like, all right, well,
I need some more of this weed.
So like, well, I'm testing out these, you know,
a bunch of these beans that I just made.
Yeah, in the back corner, I'll have a whatever,
just to replenish, you know.
I feel like it's fair to say though,
out of everything that you appreciate,
you're more into the gassy, skunky,
rotten type offensive shit.
Would that be right?
Yeah, I like, and I have such an appreciation for all of it.
But yeah, I tend to go toward, I think I said Sour,
Kim type funk, you know,
that's typically the way my hand always goes.
But equally to that, I do like those like really,
really potent purples and like those hash plants,
those really narcotic hash plants.
That's definitely something I wanted to talk to you about.
Yeah, man, that's another big one for me.
But then like when I'm talking like hazes
and you know, shit like that, you know,
it's a whole another, you know, frankincense funk.
Like, man, honestly, man, really, I'm all over the place.
But I guess, you know, when it comes to the evening time
and the nighttime, yeah, it's like,
it's going more toward that, you know,
what people say, like the gassy side of things,
or I'm going toward those real narcotic hash plants
that have more of the, I mean, some of them are like that too
but my favorite one was more,
I said in that purple flavored realm of things.
So speaking on hash plants,
back in the day I told you earlier,
two of the ones that we grew from you
that we loved were the Munson
and the most memorable for me is the Polecat 91.
Yeah, that was a good one.
That Polecat 91, that had Skelly Hash Plant in it, right?
Yeah.
And see Skelly Hash Plant,
I've heard the puck a million times,
but that was a little bit beyond my time.
I think the only thing that I've had it in
is your Polecat 91.
Can you tell us a little bit more about Skelly
and what made that hash plant so popular and wanted?
Yeah, so normally out there,
like especially in the breeding world and stuff like that,
or like the people that might not be breeding,
but they're like the extreme growers
that actually keep track of all the genetics being made
and sold and everything.
Anytime there's anything out there where anybody says,
nah man, you can't have it.
It is, it makes them go fucking wild.
That's literally all, I even joke with it.
Dude, I even joke with it.
I was like, look.
The old dealer's trick.
Nah, you can't have that jar, man.
I'll fucking make something.
I'm just gonna grow it, show pictures,
talk about how awesome it is.
And when people are like, oh, I want to see this.
Like, nah, nah, you can't have it.
Nah.
And I just like smack people down,
be like, nah, nah, you can't have it.
And then people go wild.
And then all you gotta do is let one clone out
to somebody who you know who's gonna give it away.
All right.
And then when you do that, be like,
whatever you do, don't give it to anybody, right?
And within the year, it should be in like,
10,000 different hands.
Somebody's gonna have two thirds of it.
And then at that point, that's when you drop the seeds
and you just cash out.
That would be just the ultimate fuckery.
You know what I mean?
Just to show how the fuck it works.
Fucking Duke dropping tips.
So yeah, I mean, there's that,
but all that aside, it is super, super,
super fucking dank, man.
It's just fucking awesome.
It's one of those hash plants that leans on that
just rotten, gassy, nasty,
ore rag type side of things.
Extremely potent, that just slow as shit.
Barely even stretches when you flower it.
But man, it's just amazing.
And when I was talking to Mike and everything,
and the dude that originally got the seeds over in Holland
and they came back with it hidden in a,
sewn into a sweater and all that shit.
It was, because they got it or whatever
before, since he was doing the shit with Neville.
So it should have been Neville's hash plant stock.
Which was, I think it was like an NL2, NL2, NL1
and something else, man.
My brain's been a little hazy here lately.
I feel like if you, I mean,
you got the power of the internet, right?
You can look up those seed bank catalogs
and BeanBrainz could correct me too.
He even sent me like old catalogs with their,
but I remember it was like a heavy NL base.
And anyways, they come over here, they're growing it.
And you know, it stood the test of time.
And typically anything that's that old
and stands the test of time, you know,
there's a damn good reason for it.
So having that heavy NL base,
that was one good reason.
And just the fact that it just, it's awesome.
It's got what I like and what I want.
The other side to it is like my own personal beliefs.
You know, like I've heard a billion and one stories
about Kim from here, Kim from there,
Kim from here, Kim from there.
I've always believed that Kim is a derivative of that.
So sticking with that gut, I always thought that I was like,
well, maybe it was like an NL skunk that was producing
that hit it and that's the derivative.
So I felt like, all right,
if I'm gonna work in this gene pool,
I wanna encapsulate as much as I can of that
into this hybrid, right?
Which is gonna be gnarly funk and really good potency.
So that was kind of the starting point
of doing that whole project.
So that way, eventually I have a Dominion skunk male,
which, you know, it was a hybrid.
It had, you know, all the core genes in it.
And then I could use that to start hitting anything
that was Kim.
And then I did another project that was,
I was trying to hit basically anything Kim OG with it,
which was a figure four male.
So like I wanted to have those things
and work them to the way where I'm keeping the funk,
I'm keeping the good qualities, that gene pool,
good strong branching and everything to, you know,
go along with that rad potency
and really good gnarly nose on everything.
So that was kind of that whole project
to finally hit that end goal.
And the Polkat and then the Polkat BX
were definitely up there on the charts
with the nose and the potency and everything.
So it worked out pretty damn good.
I really missed that one.
I gotta say that was by far
one of my favorite outdoor plants of all time.
I get it.
We would top, I had a patron member ask me earlier,
they heard about your tips on high stress training,
low stress training.
And they wanted to know like if there's certain cultivars
that you recommend a certain amount of training on
or a certain type of training.
And they said they had a Polkat out crossing from you.
I don't think he mentioned what cross it was,
but I said, if it's anything like the original Polkat
and you're doing it outdoors, top at once,
super crop the lowers and then just keep everything even
and it's gonna produce like hell for you.
Oh yeah, for sure, man.
And that's like another little tip
for like anybody growing out there.
And it was something that, you know,
I learned this early on, growing out different things,
especially when you're growing from cloning.
Say like, you know, our first go around,
we're just like, all right, you know,
we're just going to go for the topping.
So you top it and, you know, everything's kind of little,
but let's say like you don't call it.
You go again and this time you super crop,
and you're like, oh wow, all the flowers are like really big.
Some things don't respond well
to like the multi-cola type training, right?
So like a good example of it was the 88 G13 Nash plant.
If you super crop it a little bit
and get the lower branches to kind of come up
toward the top and keep them about four to six inches
below the apex of it, you know, the very tip of the top,
you would do great.
Now, if you punched it again and got everything even,
or if you topped it early on,
your yield would go down below half
of what you would have got.
And those growth options, which are the,
what it's sending to the apex, you know,
say is like you get the most,
you get the lion's share of my energy right now.
When you have to divvy it up
across a whole bunch of different tops,
it's like some of these plants,
like they just get confused or something.
You know, they get a little worked up over it
and you don't end up getting it.
Now, some plants, you can have 12 tops
and you're going to get 12 equally large colas
and it's going to do very well for you.
And then some of them, it does nothing,
or some cases it even did worse.
So what I always say is like, when you grow out,
when you grow out from seed,
kind of go not all natural,
but just, you know, do the super cropping enough
to where you're getting the lowers up near the top
and do your first run like that.
Find your winner, right?
And then once you got that and you're going to move forward
and now it's the next run, you know,
try like one clone, you know, top.
One clone, super cropped, you know,
like you normally would.
And then do another one, you know, with multiple tops,
you know, five, six, 10, however many tops you want
and see how it responds.
Then that way you're kind of dialing it in,
you know, how you're going to have your space management
go down.
And then that way, you know, you can predictably say,
okay, well, I'm going to need, you know,
this much square footage for each one of these plants.
They're going to give me, give or take about this amount.
And it responds well best in this way.
And then I do that at the same time as you would,
you know, dial in your feeds
and also like your chop times too.
Because my first few runs I play around, give or take,
a couple of days before, during and after
to really, really dial in that chop date, you know,
to see if that potency really spikes.
Because some things, man,
they have like a little short window where shit
really, really spikes and peaks very high.
It's great and potent before and after,
but there's these little windows where
shit'll make you snot drops wet.
And, you know, that's ultimately
we want the best possible, right?
So play around with these things.
And then that way, you know,
something you're going to keep, you know,
you really got that thing dialed in.
So you're making the best of your space management
and you're getting the best possible outcome at the end.
You know.
Dude, that's a perfect tip for new growers right there.
Take that same clone that you like,
grow it in as many ways possible
and see how it responds best.
Yeah.
Mind your six Ps, right?
Proper planning prevents this poor performance.
This poor performance, love that, bro.
Yeah.
Another thing that you talk about is something
that I talk to my patrons about very often.
You say it a little bit different than me.
You talk about reading a plant sign language, right?
What does that mean?
So, you know, obviously they can't speak.
And if the plant does start talking to you
and you're hearing a language
and you might want to put the mushroom
and so you can read out whatever.
And come up with it.
Damn it, that's what's going on.
And I get it, man.
It was speaking fucking client honors.
I didn't quite make it out, man.
But so I always kind of related it to like, you know,
they can't verbally speak,
but they can speak through sign language.
So it's up to us to know the best way to understand that.
And I would kind of like relate it to
if you've known somebody long enough
and you notice like they look a certain way
or act in a certain way that they might be hungry
or hot or whatever.
So like the same like social cues
like you use with another human being
and more in particular human being
that you hang around a lot,
you might notice a little subtle, subtle little thing.
So same type deal, like, you know,
know what your deficiencies look like.
Know what your toxicities look like.
Understand about light sensitivity
and know what 100% super healthy looks like.
So you can kind of have a gauge on that.
So that way you're knowing like, you know,
the perfect sweet spots for like watering.
Cause you know, if you're doing your soil thing,
I noticed like a lot of people over water
like has like a huge, huge problem.
So not over watering and knowing like the right amount
to give them for like what they need
for that period of time.
And knowing when to give it to them, you know,
and then looking at the angle of how the leaves
are pointed up or flat or less than parallel with the floor.
You know, when they start to come down past that point.
Knowing these little things and knowing what, you know,
yellow leaves starting at the bottom are,
knowing what a little rust spot is.
Become familiar with all these things
and essentially you're learning their language, right?
And then that way you know how to better handle your problems
if there is a problem.
And then once you start to learn these different things,
know how to deal with them accordingly.
If you're an organic grower, know how to do it organically.
And don't limit yourself to knowing like,
oh, I need a bottle of whatever.
You know, there's a bunch of ways, you know,
like one kid, you can get cast out of a buddy
that in a pinch he crushed up a bunch of tums.
Oh damn.
Yeah, that's actually fucking Jesus.
Yeah.
So like, you know, if you're in a pinch
and a lot of that, you know, it comes from growing up
in an illegal world where I can't go to a grocery store.
I'm gonna get fucking indicted.
If I go to this grocery store, you know,
I just can't do it.
I can't order things.
You have to be able to make your own things.
So that knowledge came from there,
but you know, there's a whole bunch of different ways.
And that's the thing is like,
you might have this dolomite lime
that you made a slurry with
and broke it down with some microbes and shit.
Now you're using that,
but you know, you might not be able to get out.
And you'd be like, oh man,
I need a little calcium boost real quick.
And you don't have any, but you know, it's really needed.
Maybe you're out in the dunes.
It's gonna be a while before you can get out.
Hey man, you saw a roll of fucking toms, you know?
And you're like, all right, cool.
You know, you could potentially use that, you know?
So there's a lot of, I wouldn't recommend it,
of course, you know, but if you had to,
you had an alternative.
So like, you know.
In a pinch.
When in Rome, right?
Right, right.
So, you know, you gotta know your alternatives
and things like that.
Like Bray Rabbit molasses, for instance.
Shit, ton of calcium in that.
Shit ton of calcium in that.
So that gives you a little boost there.
It's got some iron and some other goodies in there as well.
So, you know, just be well-versed in what to do
according to what this plant is trying to tell you.
You know what I mean?
So, you know, the more you know, right?
Yep.
The more you know.
No, I love how you explain that
because that's a big thing that I tell my patrons.
I call it reading your plants.
And it's basically exactly how you described it.
I would say watering practices are the number one
killer of plants for new growers.
Absolutely.
It's the hardest thing for them to learn.
But after that, it's just understanding
mobile and immobile nutrients.
Understanding what your nutrients are
and what they do for your plant, right?
Yep.
Your environmental.
And the one other big one I would add to it
is understanding the difference between
plant available and not available.
Yeah.
Things that can be taken up
and then things that really need to be broken down
and what it takes to break those down.
So knowing that will also help with, you know,
doing things, but it's also gonna help you with,
you know, another thing I've always said with growing,
especially myself, which was weird as fuck.
It's like the horse and the carrot.
You gotta push them a little bit, you know,
to get them to do exactly what you want
to really, really excel.
So you have to lead them along.
And you need to know why things happen
and what causes these things to happen.
And that way you can say, okay,
well, if higher UV light is gonna trigger a response
for more oil production, right?
We can say, okay, well, we can give it more UV, right?
Now we need to know how can we best facilitate this?
So now we know how to trigger it,
but we need to know how to facilitate that, right?
So if you know, like, okay, well, now it's about that time.
So we're gonna crank the lights up a little bit higher.
Now I'm gonna start, you know,
feeding it something for a little more oil production
and understand that it's kind of like a,
not like a super stress, but it's like a stress response.
So when they're stressed,
they produce little bits of salicylic acid.
So let's help them out.
Let's use like aloe water, right?
That's got a shit ton of salicylic acid.
So let's facilitate the stress response,
what they need to produce more oil,
and, you know, trigger it and deliver it.
And then that way, you know,
with all these other little things,
you can kind of lead them along the path that you want.
Yep, absolutely.
That's definitely a great tip again,
is fucking understanding plant stages
and what they're using at those different stages, right?
Awesome.
And you're also a big no-till organic guy, right?
Why, what got you into that?
You've tried hydro, haven't you?
Oh yeah, yeah.
I grew hydro back in the day because of, allegedly.
Allegedly, I love that word.
I say that one a lot, allegedly.
Yeah, so it's like, you know,
to go to a bunch of different places
that are all over the state, like, it's just not feasible.
So you have to have things automated and everything.
So that was like the best way to do it.
You know, we've done, you know, drippers,
you know, drained waste and recycles doing rockwool,
done cocoa, did ebb and flow and hydro corals, you know.
And my buddy used to call it a hydro.
Wow.
Hydro-clean clay pellets, you know.
Right.
Yeah, I've grown about every way you can think,
but growing in Seville, without a doubt,
I always got my best quality
and I wasn't really sacrificing much
on the yield department.
I'm just, I'm not into smoking rock hard.
It just doesn't burn good for me.
And I'm not, I'm not, because like the thing is,
like, oh, it's black ash.
Well, like, I mean, you can do hydro products correctly.
Like, it'll have a white ash, but, you know,
it just wasn't, wasn't, wasn't my jam.
The flavonoids, terpenes weren't there,
like they were in the Seville.
I might, you know, I'm gonna finish a little bit quicker.
I'm with you.
But man, if I'm already going, you know,
60 something days or whatever, like, you know,
a few handful of days ain't gonna hurt me
when it comes to, you know, the quality of the end product.
And ultimately for me, that was my, you know,
that's my jam, you know.
So back in those days, early days of alleged pumping,
you know, it was fine, but it was just out of that necessity
and that necessity only.
Right.
So yeah, like for me personally,
and especially the way the world is today,
it's like, I don't have those worries.
So yeah, I can just do my soul thing.
So aside from the quality and shit,
just the ease of it, man,
just the flat out ease of growth, it's cheaper.
It's just easier all the way around, you know.
And especially like after the first run, you know,
you've already paid for that soil, you know,
and then you can just rock and roll in it again.
You know, if the soil is really, really set up for that.
As far as like the no-till, it's like, yeah,
I'm not, definitely not tilling,
but when somebody said that to me years ago,
I was like, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And they're like, oh, what cover crops are you running?
I was like, oh, no, I'm doing it.
I'm doing my thing inside.
They're like, oh yeah, yeah, we know.
Like what cover crops are you running?
I was like, oh, I don't do that.
I was like, well, what about your mulch layer?
I was like, well, I stripped down the lower third
of my plant, like I messed it up with scissors.
And I picked up, yeah, man,
I'll throw some Bokashi on it,
maybe some earthworm castings and let it go to town.
And that does pretty awesome,
but I don't grow another crop on it.
That's just my style.
I've tried it.
It was just adding to my workload.
So just mulching when I'm stripping,
that was always good enough for me.
And every now and again, I'm top dressing a few things
just to keep levels of certain things up.
I'm not real big on overloading the soil
like with everything in existence.
A lot of those things, I really wanna keep in my control.
So some guys would throw it down,
shit tons of alfalfa and kelp.
And they're like, right into the mix.
And I'm coming in, they're like,
oh, shit, it kinda smells like fucking green grass.
And it burns my throat.
I'm like, yeah, dude.
That's that shit right there.
And it's like, something that's not mentioning
on that bag of whatever that you're dumping in it
is the plant growth regulators.
They're organic, but there's BGRs that are in there.
So try that and all, and the alfalfa
is giving you that nice green grass fucking funk.
So there's that.
And then that acid, and there's sodium,
and all the kelps really doing it up for you
on the smoothness.
So it's like, don't load your shit down
with everything under the sun.
You have it in your room, but brew it, make a tea.
Use it when it's needed.
Yes, you can make it available and you can give it then.
Yeah, and just because it's good and veg,
and you're gonna bloom,
don't feed that shit through the whole bloom cycle.
Like you're inhibiting a lot of things doing it too.
Then it goes back to like educating yourself.
Like, why does this do what it does?
And what is actually going on other than like,
oh, it worked, it did good.
Plant looked happy, you know, like.
The beginner grower notes.
I remember taking those notes.
Yep, good, watered, happy.
Yeah, plant green, plant happy.
Plant green, plant good.
Yeah, you can get them all.
That's awesome.
So I'm a big organic guy too.
I haven't fucked around with Hydro.
I'm one of the only organic growers I know
that's never touched Hydro in his life.
Yeah.
But I went from using like a mostly organic,
a synganic like balled nutrient system.
It was horrible.
It was, so they had like fucking eight, 13 balls
or some shit like that.
Yeah, it was just ridiculous.
I went from that, I got in.
Oh, you met the motherfucker right there.
Right.
The pH down, that was the worst.
That was the worst.
Yeah.
Three drops out, we're way the fuck out now, god damn it.
Oh man.
I would like lemon juice, man, for.
Now, yes, now I'm using lemon juice.
But before, I moved into top dressing
and after that I really got into KNF practices,
if you're familiar with that.
Oh, very, very familiar, man.
It works.
And there's books.
Yes.
That are available to the public for anybody listening.
It's not some secret.
Like, you should get those, learn those,
and understand why those things are doing good.
It's the same thing like with Tums or whatever.
Like, no, like you can find nutrients literally
all over the place, just fermenting them
or breaking them down in other ways.
It's there, you know, and you can really do some bullshit.
Yes.
So I have a couple questions for you on that.
I went from using KNF and every run
I would take my soil out, I would re-amend it,
like you were saying, just throw it in there
because it's good for veg, right?
And now I'm getting bigger pots, I'm growing in beds,
I'm doing stuff like this, and I'm trying to do
the no-till hand-in-hand incorporated with the KNF.
Are you getting your soil tested after each run?
Do you gauge it?
What type of organic growing are you using
in conjunction with your no-till?
As far as like testing goes, for the longest time
that was just not a practical thing
that was gonna happen for me.
Out here, especially like when the CBD shit
went super crazy, man, that's okay,
and it's all legit and everything,
you started getting a lot of these ag companies
that were coming out.
You're like, oh yeah, we'll test your soil, test your soil.
And at that point, that's when I was like,
okay, yeah, I can test this because, you know,
like at the end of the day, like I'm a scientific guy,
I might not look it or sound it,
but I wanna quantify shit and know what exactly is going on.
So I did get to see my levels and what would deplete,
and it wasn't incredibly far off
from what I kind of already knew,
but I had like a tangible actual number with it now
that I could really hone in with versus me just,
once again, just looking at the plants in the past
and being like, well, every run,
you know, and on the second, you know, another run,
I noticed like I'm starting to peter out here,
so I need to start adding, you know, this, that,
or the other.
Right.
So yeah, if it's available to you and you can do it,
I would definitely highly advise that
because, you know, we wanna be the best at,
you know, what we're trying to do.
As far as my soil pots, like beds are really cool,
but the only, I guess, downside of it to me was
if something happens.
Yes.
I don't want it to spread.
Yeah, I don't want it to spread.
So if for whatever ungodly reasons, say Pythium,
were to come into the mix,
I don't want that spreading across the whole bed
and losing everything.
If I didn't happen to notice it in a plant, you know,
I could at least take that pot and remove it
out of the area and be done with it without.
Right.
And pots offered me a little bit of configurability
where I could, you know, arrange things and move around.
So, but I mean, beds are, they are cool, you know,
but it's just, for me,
I needed to have that little versatility as well.
As far as my pots, once I set them up,
I don't, I never bust them up again,
but I found out like gross nines ain't around anymore.
So I'm gonna have to go back to like pumice
and shit like that, I guess again,
but Paralite breaks down mad quick though.
So the important part about people that I noticed like
when they were doing these like big, big, huge,
20 something gallon no-till pots,
and it worked bad for that matter,
is that aeration-wise,
they were just relying a lot on the Paralite
and it's gonna break down fairly quickly.
Yes.
You're gonna start losing your aeration,
which is gonna invite, you know, problems
and the plants are gonna start to suffer.
Make sure, like when you set your pot or your bed up,
make sure that it is, you know,
it's set up good to go for the long haul.
Sizing-wise on my pots,
it just, I kind of just kind of honed it in
over trial and error for a long time
was the plant that I want about the,
we'll just say diameter times height there,
equal pot.
Once again, plant, plant happy, plant good.
So if it was like a small,
say like a waist high, belly button plant,
five gallons, seven gallons full,
chest high, chin high,
maybe a little taller, you know,
10 gallon to 15s, depending on,
because some things have the crazy insane root systems
that just wanna go bonkers, you know,
and other things they don't quite have that vigor
in the root zone that like some cultivars do.
So, you know, I'd play it by ear
with the cultivars as well,
kind of try to cater individually
instead of like, all right, you're all cannabis, right?
All right, cool.
You know, y'all all act the same, right?
And it's like, no, no, it doesn't work that way.
Not that one, not that one.
Yeah, treat them in the corner.
Treat them individually, you know,
they all got their dietary needs
and all tweaks and shit and things that I do like,
don't like.
So let me ask you another question.
Something we've been talking about
in my Discord server with my patrons
was keeping a no-till in a certain size.
I had always heard don't do it in anything
under a 15 gallon.
A big reason of that is that dry down time, right?
And keeping that biodiversity going.
Exactly.
What would you suggest for like the smallest pot size
that you could get a no-till system in with?
I think what it really boils down to is
one, the person and how attentive
and how much you're there, you know, in your garden.
And then the second thing being like,
when we go back to the plant itself
and that root zone vigor,
because like if I got something I know
that just has this crazy root zone
and I already know that, you know,
week, fourth flower is starting to suck water up
so damn quick, I know better
than to try to grow this big bastard on a 10 or a seven.
So I know like, hey, you definitely need to be in a 15.
Some things you can get away with a 10.
But yeah, that's the whole key is like
keeping these microbes happy,
letting them build their infrastructure,
their highways and byways, their living spaces
and all in places where they're reproducing.
You gotta concentrate on them
because they're like in your industrial assembly line plant.
That's job is to send food to the roots.
They're your workers
and you gotta keep your workers happy.
The better they do, the better that plant's gonna do.
Long as you make sure they're happy in their environment
and they have what they need to succeed,
then they're gonna take care of the rest for you.
So I don't, yeah, I think with most people,
definitely like, I mean, if you wanna push the envelope
and go back and forth, sure, but yeah,
I think in a 15 would be a good proper size for most people
that might not be able to, you know,
they might work two jobs or, you know,
you know, life gets fucked up sometimes.
So I think 15 would be a good place.
Caveat to that, people with big 15s,
they start fucking watering, like just transplanted,
you know, like you water it down,
you get it good and good and down.
You put in a Dixie cup clone, you know,
and you watered it in,
but everybody wants to water the whole fucking pot again.
It doesn't-
Throwing the kids in the pool.
Yeah.
So it's like, you know, it's just dried out.
You're not dried out,
but it's starting to dry in the immediate area
of the transplant.
So the rest of the pot was good.
You just needed to wet out the circumference
of that area again and maintain a good moisture level
as it's starting to go along.
Cause as it comes more to a dry, not dry, but you know,
it's running out of these, this moisture.
That's what roots do.
It's the horse and the carrot thing.
It has to kind of go there
or else the roots are gonna get complacent.
It'll just stay right there and not search for water.
So like it needs to come down a level four
to search for it again.
Then you need to reward it with some carrot.
And then, you know, you do it again.
That's what's causing that root system to go.
It's looking for moisture and being fed.
That's how she goes.
So if it takes a gallon of water, say,
to wet down the spot real good,
and you transplant in and it's good and happy,
well, when you water again,
you don't need to hit it with another gallon.
You know, you're probably good with, you know,
40 ounces of water or something like that.
So that's another one that I noticed.
Cause then they're just like,
oh yeah, the roots are in it and they're shut.
And it was just never happy.
It was just always droopy all the time.
And then you're waterboarding.
It didn't have any government secrets, bro.
You waterboarded it for nothing, man.
Yep. Absolutely.
So I need to smoke a bowl really quick,
but before we get going to break,
I wanted to ask you, has there been one input,
one tip, one major piece of advice
that has really changed your growth for the better?
It's been so many,
so many little things that really did it.
One thing, I don't think I could even put it down
to just one thing, man.
So many things, but hey,
I guess that means that we got more to talk about, man.
We're not going to bore you.
Yeah. Absolutely.
All those little things that you reach for,
that people give you advice over,
you try them, they work for you.
All that stuff adds up to what your style of growing is.
Right?
Yeah, exactly.
For me, I think the biggest thing, you know,
it's not one thing.
It's the idea that I don't have to throw my soil away
anymore.
I can regenerate this.
I can not only help my plants, I can help my pocket.
I can help the planet all at the same time.
You know what?
I could ride with that being one of those things
because, you know, way back in the day,
I used to toss mine out.
I used to take those root balls,
I'd throw them in the garden where I was growing,
you know, watermelons, tomatoes, and shit.
And I had like that one section
where shit was just bonkers.
You'd be like, man, that's some real good soil down there.
Everything must be washing off
going down there to the bottom, bro.
Yeah, man, I reckon so.
I reckon so.
Well, yeah, you throw that shit in the trash,
then, you know, you got the chance of them seeing that shit
unless you throw it in like a fucking
abandoned dumpster somewhere.
But, uh.
Yeah, man.
Yeah, in the country, that's how it is.
I was talking to Gas from Suomi Organic Seed
and that's one of the things that he was talking about too.
He used to throw his soil away back in the day.
And one of the things that we both know
because that's a place where you can throw soil,
where nobody's going to question
why is there soil there, right?
But you know what?
The one time where I just said, fuck it.
This is a roll again, just for shits and giggles,
just to see what's going on here.
Yeah, it was better.
It was better than the first round.
Yeah. And that's what triggered it in my head.
That's what we were saying.
We're throwing that through that soil in our gardens.
And all of a sudden we noticed our fucking tomatoes are happy.
Our fucking plants are happy.
What's going on here?
Like this isn't trash.
Tomato red. Tomato good.
We're going to take a short break.
We will be right back with Duke Diamond from Dominion Seed Company.
G'day everyone, Grow Green Daddy here.
If you're like me and you can't help but sneak in a peek
and cop in a field of your lady flowers many times a day,
then you need to stay the hell out of their room
and let the coconut mizu keep an eye on them for you.
The mizu is an affordable, battery operated,
remote monitoring environment sensor
taking constant temperature, humidity and BPD readings
with real time push to app notifications.
If your grow climate fluctuates outside your set range,
you will be notified.
With historical charting, you can refer to previous grow data
to help perfect your future grow style.
And with one account able to monitor multiple mizu,
you have complete grow monitoring on any device signed in through the app.
To help dial in your space, Coconut is dialing up a discount
for Calix crew podcast listeners.
Use code Calix, C-A-L-I-X
and check out further savings off the already low $69 price per unit.
Check the coconut mizu out at coconut.com
K-O-K-O-N-A-U-T dot com.
Now back to Doc and Duke to finish off the session.
All right, we're back with Duke Diamond from Dominion Seed Company.
I do want to talk more about your your cultivars now,
some of the stuff that you've made in the past that you're really happy about.
My help over on the podcast, Grow Green Daddy, one of the questions
he likes me to ask you guys all the time is if you had like a
let's shoot for one, but you can pick a top three cultivars
that you've made that you want to represent your name when you're gone.
What would they be?
I would say definitely the Dominion G
the six mil. God damn top three.
It's all hard questions.
OK, take your time. Take your time.
It really is.
I'm going to say Screaming Eagle in there too.
Oh, shit.
With that Dominion G, it's like my Polkat Dominion G projects, you know,
like those were, oh man, they're good ones, you know, so.
But yeah, that would probably be it.
The Screaming Eagle one was a was a big one, too.
What was the difference between the Dominion G and the capital G?
Well, the cat G was just the first.
The first attempt, you know, like, like I'm going to make this
and we're going to see what happens.
A lot, a lot of nasty, nasty funk resulted from it.
I grew some out for just to just to hook up some friends with it.
You know, I had a little keeper, you know, that I wanted to keep working with.
It was just fucking skunk, man.
And people were flipping out about it.
So I only had because I did a huge hunt.
Jesus Christ.
I think it was like 40 packs, something like that.
And people were just from trying to fucking
just I thought I was going to get raped or something
the way people were fucking creeping on me.
So I was like, fuck it.
Yeah, just take them.
You know, it's like it's not a done deal, but I've already had my selection.
I've already made a step, you know, in the process.
So I already know, like, even if they tried some some fuck boy shit,
which I know is going to happen anyway, because I've known this a while.
There's no way in hell they'd catch up.
So, you know, I left that out.
But, you know, the ultimate goal was to, you know, refine it further and further,
further along into the Dominion G
and having like a really just same thing with the the polecat,
you know, having that nasty Kim skunk blend on the on the nose
and just knock down.
Kick ass potency and just good, well-structured plants
that weren't floppy or anything, you know, and stuff that was good and hardy
that, you know, you could grow it indoor or outdoor and not finicky.
So in the hills in the cold.
Yeah, they can they can take it.
They can definitely say that was my favorite was growing it up
in the mountains when it was all cold and shit, it would just get thick, man.
Those branches would be like arms.
Yeah, by far one of my favorite.
Another big thing about something you talked about was when you're curing,
you leave about like one or two inches on your pedals, right?
Yeah, man.
Dude, that's been a huge thing for me that has helped me out so much with my grow.
Yeah, it really, really helps with that, with the drying process, man.
Like it keeps things more consistent, you know, so you're not drying up
in one spot and not the other nice, consistent drying.
And it acts like like kind of acts as like a wick almost, you know,
just kind of slowly and surely, just evenly
displacing that that moisture that we're trying to get rid of, you know.
Yeah, I do turn me on to that back in the day.
And I was like, yeah, fuck it.
You know, he found out by accident, too.
Yeah, it was innocent.
I remember this lady or daughter or what, but it was helping him do it.
And this wasn't using scissors.
It was a snip, snip, snip, snip, something like that.
And he was like, oh, no, you can just break them off and just leave it
in a branch like, oh, whatever.
And then he had all the ones that they had done like that.
And I just like, wow, that made a substantial difference there.
So then he started doing it on purpose and turned me on to it.
I was like, I'll be done.
Nice, dude. Hell yeah.
See, before that, I was doing a whole plant hang.
I would leave on all the fan leaves and everything like that.
And it really I mean, it was OK if you had a couple of plants in there
with really good airflow.
But yeah, you got that thing packed after like an outdoor harvest or something.
I was like, Jesus Christ, there's so much moisture in here.
And I would take them all the way down,
you know, cut the entire leaf off, petiole and everything.
And then when I heard you say that, I started leaving a little extra on there
and actually helped out quite a bit.
Yeah. Yeah.
Like I said, it's those little things that we pick up and
sort of adding all those little things together and make a real successful
regimen there, you know?
Yeah. So you shouted out
the Dominion G, the Screaming Eagle.
And what was the other one?
Oh, man.
I can the six mil.
Yeah, like that, the six mil.
What was the six mil?
I'm not familiar with that one.
That was the the local with the Screaming Eagle I made for my
or my buddy Kevin that passed away.
It was like two of his two of his favorites.
His nickname is going to six million dollar man.
Well, rest in peace to him.
And that's awesome of you for making something that is in his likeness
like that.
Yeah, man, I was going to do it, you know, doing it, doing it for him anyway.
You know, but is this this weird thing like,
you know, like a spot on his back and like I've seen it there since
fucking nineties, it was just like a big it wasn't even like a model.
Even, you know, it was just like a giant freckle birthmark.
Yeah. Yeah.
That's what I figured.
And, you know, forever goes by.
And, you know, he has a lady, you know,
he met later and she's you know, she's like a nurse or whatever.
And it's like, you know, this wouldn't hurt to get it checked out.
You know, I mean, I guess he said, yeah, we got to do that.
I guess they cut it to do a biopsy or whatever.
And it had some crazy reaction and just cancer spread throughout his body.
He was dead in 72 hours.
Oh, wow. Yeah.
That's horrible.
Yeah, man. Sorry to hear that.
Yeah, it threw me threw me off because by the time he had it done,
I talked to him that day.
I didn't hear from him the next day.
And then the following day, I'm like, hey, I heard from him, you know,
and my buddy TJ is like, you know, they're they're best friends, too.
He's like, yeah, he's in the hospital.
He tells me what's happening.
I was like, there's any way I can, you know, like talk to him.
He's like he was in so much pain.
They, you know, had to had to put him out.
And I wasn't able to, you know, say any, you know, anything.
So I just wrote up a text and it was just like, you know, told him I.
You know, my final final thoughts are, you know, whatever.
And I was hoping, you know, maybe if he did wake up, you know,
maybe he would see it or something, but he ended up
he ended up dying that, you know, that following day.
Well, it sounds like he would be a guy that would really appreciate
what you've done to honor him.
Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.
I was in a being a in a handover county for doing you, dude.
He just thought it was the greatest fucking thing ever that, you know,
moved out west and was just doing things,
doing things legit and like really doing it up.
No, they don't want it real proper.
You know, he just thought that was just the best shit ever, you know.
And that's your family, right?
That's the ones that want to want to see you doing good.
They want to see you succeed.
That's awesome, man. Yeah, man.
Yeah, Kevin, you're lucky.
You're lucky you had him.
Yeah, man, he was the best, you know, since like
nineteen ninety ninety three.
So I'm like, you know, and yeah, it's the best best friends, you know,
it's just awesome, dude.
But, you know, I just have to
have to catch up with him on the flip flop, you know?
Yeah. And that'll happen.
Always does, man.
I believe in energy.
Oh yeah, man. Absolutely.
And once you can't be destroyed, you know.
So on a brighter note.
We want to talk to you about some of those old skunks that you worked with
since that's kind of one of your mainstays.
You had a lot that you did.
Like you said, the Dominion skunk.
I remember you had one that had a cross in it
and it was called basic skunk.
And I always thought that was funny, like,
you know, you especially in this day and age, Duke, I know.
I know you've been you've been away for a bit, but dear God,
if you're hearing some of the names that people are coming out with now,
orange creamsicle puppy dog like this, the best shit.
Oh, it was it was one on before I left and we would make fun
and be like, yeah, fucking Sherbert fucking butthole green.
You know what I mean?
And then like all of a sudden you're like, oh, wow,
somebody is actually calling something that now running out of dessert.
And so these.
Sherbert, well, yeah.
Who's on that shit? Who's on that shit?
I could name a couple. No.
You have a one buddy.
If he has names, but yeah, I've always been kind of.
I don't know, man.
This is the way my naming process is weird.
I like the fucking names that you come out with, man.
It's all good.
Polk at was a big one to me because when I had my cousins moved over to Montana,
they lived on Polk at Road.
And so that name stuck out to me.
I was like, fucking Polk at we got to grow Polk at man.
Like it's pretty dope.
But when you had that one, I remember seeing the cross on it.
It said basic skunk.
And I said, that's such a funny way to name something.
When we were talking earlier about like the old tactics of,
oh, you can't have that one like. Right.
But who wants basic skunk like that?
Sounds like it's fucking it's basic.
What was the basic skunk and why did you name it that?
It was a skunk and skunk type hybrid.
And back in the day, they had the
the basic five
three sativa C club skunk hybrid, which is an L5.
So what they did, I guess, is what they decided to call it then.
Oh, so this was a SSC original.
Yeah, that was their old name for an L5 skunk.
Well, that makes more sense now. OK.
Yeah, exactly.
So, yeah, using the like an old sense,
the Shiva skunk and basic skunk and making this hybrid,
it wasn't, you know, the basic five skunk hybrid.
So it was just like, I would just call it basic skunk.
And it's cool because the name like that, it was something,
you know, we're keeping, you know, keeping in house and everything.
But still, that's the name of line is like, oh, OK, it's just basic.
I need to look over here, guy.
Right. Nice. Yeah.
Yeah, that would that was a little bit beyond my time.
So it's nice hearing those stories and getting familiarized
with where those genetics came from.
Is that the same thing with the sys skunk or was that your creation?
No, that was that was that was one of mine. Yeah. OK.
So you did do the sis, the granny.
And the local one was just one that was running around Virginia.
Yeah, that was another one that we
that we were just goofing around back in the day.
And these sourdies, a lot of the old
when we're goofing around with that.
Which that.
Want to pass out some testers to a few people
and there's some people that were already were already growing sour.
And he wanted our feedback on it, you know, because we could give a real feedback
in comparison to the client, because back then
you didn't have a whole shit ton of people growing sour diesel, you know,
so you didn't have even that many people ever even smoked it.
So you need the good feedback.
And we're just goofing around.
Had the had the had the mail or whatever.
We had this other
ash plant climbing back down of the cuttlefish ash plant. OK.
And yeah, so we were goofing around and that's where the local came from.
But we call it it was called the local age.
We were jamming out on the
on the radio.
We had a little radio is underneath of a friend's house.
We had dug out a pit, made a false door and shit.
No. Are you serious?
Oh, yeah. Like Shawshank fucking Redemption, dude.
Dude, what the fuck? Yeah.
Are you my long lost brother?
Don't you're not going to tell me you start growing with a heat lamp, did you?
Even had a cop or a neighbor?
OK, maybe.
Well, fuck you, Mr. Fancy.
No, no, my.
Yeah, no, my my first was.
No, we had we had the same thing.
Falls door if I get a little it was like a little cellar and shit.
But yeah, we had chickens.
He left those. We thought that was a good idea.
Yeah, no, I was outdoors outdoors first.
Yeah. Yeah.
It was straight up in the dirt, man.
We literally dug it, dug it out little by little.
We'll take ass bags up and walk around the backyard shift in the
system, the dirt out like Shawshank Redemption.
Right. That's dope, dude.
That's dope.
But yeah, I ran electric to it.
And I got a nice, nice little fucking grow down there.
I have a radio hooked up and that band Local H, you know, I was on to
and that shit was like straight like some dope, too.
But it was really, really sour, really, really potent.
Yeah, the name kind of stuck.
I was like, yeah, you know, we'll keep that.
So that that came from there.
And then making making hybrids with that.
And I was definitely a really, really good one.
You know, hell yeah, man.
You also like you seem to like the citrus stuff, too, right?
Oh, yeah, man. Yeah, I got I got some citrus ones.
Because you did the G13, too.
Yeah. Yeah.
The airborne G13 has a like pink lemonade citrus thing going on.
Yeah, that was the mom and the screaming angel, the screaming eagle project.
Oh, so that was in that screaming eagle.
Yeah. So that's why I've heard that name so many times.
Shit. Well, fuck, I missed out on that one.
Yeah, it's 88 G13 hash plant
as a mom. Afghani is the donor.
Big selection from there on the mail from there.
And then hit the airborne G13.
Was that that Virginia Beach Afghan?
No, no, no.
This is a Kandahar Afghan.
Oh, that was used for that.
Yeah. The Virginia Beach Ghani.
That's just the as is the girl.
This one we went with the mail route on the mail.
It's 88 with it.
You're at a bunch of the girls saw what I wanted to see
on the mail that was best corresponding to that
and hit the airborne with it.
So that way we got a good, good amount of G13 genetics in there.
Let's say some NL to this half of that airborne is G13 and out to
from old Neville seed bank stock.
They grew them out.
You know, his little hand was airborne.
So, you know, that was his keeper.
So, you know, between the Afghani
88 ash plant, you know, G13 hash plant, we were kind of getting
good symmetry, you know, good.
The things are syncing up just just right.
So it ended up working awesome.
I really, really love that one.
It's a great one.
I'm going to continue the work with that one, too, man.
So, you know, Philly, you know.
Well, you answered one of the next question.
Yeah. Yeah.
I'm going to need a, you know, Philly will read that one
and come back at everybody with it.
And we can hone in on that one phenotype that feels just.
Just so awesome, like all of them are great, but there's the one
phenotype that I mean, it pops up frequently, but like I want
I want the majority of the pack poppin poppin like that.
And since there was only a limited amount of them that went out to begin with anyway
to like general public, because most of my gave out to veterans
for them to grow or people that were grown for that sort of PTSD
and stuff and bad anxiety problems.
OK. Yeah, that's why I remember.
So I gave most of them away and then I had a handful left that sold
sold off because, you know, a lot of people like, well, I mean, this me that
this people beating your door down, you know, so
everybody had basically hit me up.
That was going to hit me out.
It's like a whole fucking year, maybe even more than a year later.
And I was like, all right.
But the last handful of them out, people went pretty much a shit over it.
And I was like, yeah, you know, it's something I need to continue on
because I was so impressed with it.
And it's such a good, good thing. So.
So would it be fair to say that you have plans to get back into those
find that phenotype and back cross it?
So I'd already done some
affiliate stuff with it anyway, and are two steps with it.
And it really honed in.
It really, really honed in just just doing it like that.
So I don't think back crossing will be will be necessary with that one.
So you're going to go forward with the line right on?
Yeah. Just doing the filly.
I think, you know, just.
You know, we'll do the F4 and then, you know, check it out from there.
And that's probably where I'll leave it is just that just set an F4.
I'll keep keep driving it in and in and in.
I'm getting that result of that for them.
You know, I'm cool with that.
Hell yeah.
So everybody's got something to look forward to eventually in the future.
Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.
When you can.
When there's a will, there's a way, right?
When you're a free man again.
That's right.
So one more that I wanted to touch on was
I was going back through, obviously, I remember the Munson and the Polk out.
But I, you know, a couple of those, the capital G that pop back up in my head
when you said cuttlefish, I remembered that being talked about.
But I just wasn't familiar enough.
And going back through your your types, I saw one that was named Swayze.
Yeah, dude.
Why is it named Swayze?
Is it sexy as fuck?
Yeah, dude.
It's kind of fucked up for real.
But so that one was the ghost that I use with the hook.
I love ghost.
And you remember the movie goes that Swayze?
Yes. OK, OK.
Gotcha. Gotcha.
Wow. I didn't even make the fucking connection.
Jesus Christ. I even went I read the I read the description.
I was like, go, go. I love goes.
I didn't even Jesus Christ.
I'm such a stoner.
Yes. So I got a book.
I didn't book it.
So yeah. Yeah.
And it'll make it and it would go out to man.
Fuck. And you would.
And, you know, it's way to use the slime.
And I was like, I'm done. I'm out.
I'm Swayze, dude.
I would definitely put you out.
But can I tell you, like you used to like rock it out like pretty hard
and used to have like real great runs of it was a J.
J. J. Plant speaker.
Yeah, he was he was doing some gnarly runs.
I had a really, really funky skunky one, too.
All right, so we had some questions from my patrons that they wanted to ask you.
Q Ball, oh, oh, says, did you ever think you'd be who you are today in cannabis?
No, I had no idea.
I knew like I wanted to do some good things for people,
but I had no idea that there would be.
By the time I got out in the legit world,
I just saw so much fuckery and bullshit and,
you know, people that were not not the best people in the past.
I'm like, wow, holy shit.
Y'all are all of the people running this.
I don't like it honestly, like it piss me off where I even moved out here.
And I was like, all right, well, you know, I'm still going to go do my thing.
And I think, you know, I never expected it.
But one thing I can say to anybody, it's like you're just doing what you do,
doing the right thing every day.
If it's the right thing and the good energy and good intention.
People that have that that same basis,
you know, in their life, you know, ethics and quality and the stuff,
you know, the whole the whole can of worms, man, like
those people are going to find themselves drawn to you.
And what's refreshing about the whole thing is like
there's so many really, really, really good people still left out there.
And that gave me definitely gave me hope.
Yes. On the future.
You know what I mean?
So I never know.
I never, never thought when people like, oh, you're legendary.
Oh, my God, you're being like, no, dude, I am not fucking shit.
I am just a normal fucking Virginia, the fucking that likes doing stuff
and not doing it yet.
Fuck yeah. Don't forget where you came from.
Hell yeah, man. Yeah, it weirds me out.
And of course, first and ask for autograph.
I'm like, what?
You fucking with me, right?
And they're like, no, I want it and I want to picture with you.
I'm like, all right, that's cool.
I'll do that.
Pass always passing the good vibes, man.
You want a picture to get a picture with me?
I don't care, but it is.
I get where you're coming from, man.
I fucking vibe with that for sure.
I had a fucking I had a guy pop into my discord the other day.
I don't know who it was, but he said, oh, yeah, I'm long time fan of Alex.
And I was like, I got I got fans.
I can. Yeah.
And the book is this.
And then somebody, oh, and then another one of my buddies called me boss
the other day.
It's like, I'm not your boss.
And he's like, well, how do you perceive yourself?
And I said, honestly, podcasting.
I was like, yeah, everybody wants to talk to breeders and shit.
I just know some I got some connections and I can talk to people.
You know, I'm just a dude dressed like a dude playing another dude.
I said, I feel like I'm the Lorax of the stoners.
I'll speak for you.
Got the hair and all we're good.
All right. Another one of our patron members, Vanilla Rice.
I love that name, Vanilla Rice.
Right. He said, I heard you use fruit juices in your feeding regimen.
Is it FFJ FPGA or are you talking about actual fruit juice?
I don't even know what FFFP.
It's the only place it is.
It's K&F inputs, fermented plant juice and fermented fruit juice.
Oh, OK. All right.
Now, so I'm using actual real
100 percent organic fruit juice.
I'm actually going out to like the real hippie out stores
and getting a really good organic fruit.
I'm going like full on Jack Lane.
I got to get out of the food processor.
I can I can turn it into a puree.
Now mixing it all together.
And then from there, yeah, I'll ferment.
And there's a day that asked me earlier, like I saw the deal
and I would change to get to it, but he was like, so do I add a
and say, break it down, though, I need to add like yeast to it.
And I get back and I know unless you want to make brandy.
And if you want to make brandy and make some liquor, then yes,
you don't want alcohol, water and alcohol.
So now we're not going to do that and break it down.
So you are you're making about the best type of FFJ FPGA.
You could you're doing whole fruits, right?
Skins, everything.
Yeah, the whole thing.
Letting it naturally ferment.
That's can have brother.
That's what you do.
Yeah, man.
Right, right here in America.
How about that?
Do you strain it out or do you use all the pulp?
I strain it.
You strain it out just for like, you know, running it
because like I would water using a pump.
I didn't want to make solids left behind, but all the leftover
I threw in my in my compost bin and then I use it to stop dressing
on the on the parts.
Oh, shit.
And then you're throwing a mulch layer over that.
Yeah.
OK, I was going to say my only concern would be like ants and bugs and shit.
Well, you're doing this indoor, too, right?
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
So you're controlling.
OK, OK, that makes sense.
Yeah, dude, that's awesome.
Yeah.
Yeah, man.
So, yeah, well, it's warm castles on top of it.
Little insect grass,
medicine leaves up over top of that, you know, with some bakashi under it.
You know, you're in the skins and.
OK, so another patron member, OK, Calix,
good friend of mine.
I'm going to shout him out right now.
OK, Calix of OK, Calix genetics.
Go hit him up if you haven't seen him.
Great fucking dude.
Duke, you love him.
Good guy.
He wanted to know how long until you were growing again.
We kind of talked about that already.
Future breeding plans.
Did you have anything else that you wanted to do other than the screaming eagle?
Oh, man, so, so much.
The thing is with me is like, like I can say, like, yeah, definitely.
There's a lot.
But the way that I that I work is it's really.
They'll know when it's done.
Yeah, it's really long because shit, you know, and I don't come out
out into the know until it is.
It's beyond done.
It's literally ready for drop before I even mention it.
Don't count your eggs before they hatch, right?
Well, there's that.
And also there's just too many knockoffs out there and scammers.
True. Very true.
You know, like they'll claim that they're doing it.
You know, they'll hear it.
Oh, that's a great idea.
And then claim that they got it and they did it.
And there it is available for sale.
Or they might even hear of a clone that's not even known of.
I've seen this happen so many times that it becomes this hot word.
Oh, yeah, I'm using this one, this one, this one.
And then before you know it all.
Gotcha. Yeah, for sure.
And so we just, you know, it's it's stupid, dude.
That the Alice kind of the shitty thing about being,
you know, held in regard, right?
Yeah, man. Yeah, they're looking.
You got a lot of people looking out for you and then, you know,
a lot of people looking out for you and looking, looking,
you know, take advantage of you.
OK, I don't know if there's some inside information
I don't have or what's going on here, but he says,
what was the new exciting strain of the Emerald Cup?
Mm. Well,
not another one we can't talk about.
There. Well, there was one that Heroes of the Farm
Pat was doing.
And then we did some stuff back in the day.
Freedom Fighter.
They might be talking about that.
There's one that I did back in the day
and I gave them all to a KB brains.
And I was like, yeah, just have them.
Like, well, for what?
I was like, well, you gave me a clone and, you know, this is what happens.
Like things are going to come back to you.
I'm not I'm not giving them out.
I'm not releasing them or anything.
I just want you to have them if you want to do whatever you can sell them,
grow them, whatever you want.
It's just thank you.
So we called it, we called it Thunderhole.
And it was the male was called Ass Man and it hit the thunder.
Oh, his bad news.
Yeah. So we call it Thunderhole.
And he had them.
And then I guess they'll be available here, here in the very, very near future.
Because I gave him a lot.
Yeah. So you just had them.
So I'm definitely seeing that same fucking vibe.
Now I understand why a case that I would like.
I was like, yeah, I can see that motherfucker saying Thunderhole.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
This shit, you know, yeah.
So the Thunderhole, what?
Has he got to talk to you about it much?
Like what is it that he loves about it so much?
It is insane amounts of resin and really, really strong knockdown potency,
but he was getting these
real strong orange citrusy
phenos that he was just pulling away with my nice Christmas tree.
But I was like, yeah, knockdown potency is definitely I was like
between that male and the Thunderfuck, it's like it doesn't really have much choice.
You know, right.
But yeah, big beefy plants, man.
And I just get out and fucking plop down.
Take knock you down.
Sure. Good deal, man.
So are you more in?
I mean, you work with skunks.
You work with G13.
You also do so much Afghani work and shit.
Do you have like a preference in the type of high that you enjoy?
I like them all.
All this depends on the time.
You're like, yeah, they all have their own place.
Exactly.
Is there one that you're like wanting more than the other?
Mm. No, like so.
And this is a kind of segue with the, you know, we were talking about
medical stuff, too, is like if you smell that same thing
every day, day in, day out.
Yes. You build up that tolerance and it's just not as great as it was.
You know, I'm going to say like chasing the dragon, looking for it again.
But you just got you got to put it down and get away from it.
So I always like, you know, the so for our time and place,
so like my daytimes, three to five different things I like for the daytime,
intermediate in the evening, I want to chill, but I still got to do shit.
You know, I had three to five.
I like that.
And three to five for just knocking me the fuck out at night.
Yeah. So that way I can rotate through these.
And the same thing with like dealing with medical patients is like
finding multiple things that are getting to that same goal for them
or even on whatever ailment it might be. Right.
And that way they can rotate it.
So this one day, this one, the next day and then go through that cycle.
So they don't really build that tolerance up to it.
So they're getting good relief, you know, day in and day out. So.
Yeah, I had a lot of different little ones for the day and then in the evening.
Then, you know, definitely for the night.
Good deal. Good deal, man.
I'm very much the same.
I feel myself going for the more heady shit
most of the time, and I'm one of those guys that's like, I'm going to keep going
and I'm going all day until I pass the fuck out.
There's no relaxing and going to bed.
I'm just like fucking
when my body gives out, I'm done.
And that's when I'm going to smoke my bedtime shit. Yeah.
So that's pretty rare for me in finding a cultivar
that I appreciate for that time of the day when I'm just I'm ready to go to bed.
I'm done. I want to be relaxed.
I want to lay in my bed, float for a second and fall asleep.
Yeah. What have you produced that you would be like, man, this is
this is what you need to go out for Betty by.
I would say.
But the night at local school was pretty fucking knocked down
and some of these females like it was over, you know, overboard.
I would also have to say
these purple dahlia, you know, is a real good for me for going to sleep.
Fuck yes.
I was looking at that one.
Yeah. Great.
I really like that one.
Stash plant was another another real
heavy, but you know, I touched on
granny skunk.
That was another one that was definitely more on the
on the narcotic narcotic side.
Screaming Eagle, like if you're really chief and chief and hard,
you know, it's definitely going to definitely going to put you in that zone, too.
There was the beefcake, which was like a figure for mail to the Kim Dog.
D that one was pretty, pretty heavy on the on the sedation as well.
I don't know why, but Kim and OG bring me up
like a motherfucker.
I was going to say that, too.
I don't get that.
But a lot of people, it knocks out.
It brings me the fuck up.
I love Kim in the morning.
I had I guess I've had friends in the past like ever have any friends
like they put them on Ritalin or Adderall or anything like that.
No, no, no.
All right. So it is like a 80.
Fuck, that would make a lot of sense, though.
So it's like, yeah, it's an A&B drug.
So, you know, I have a friend that literally bounces off the walls
all the fucking time, right?
So they give them the shit and then it's melons amount, you know,
allows them to concentrate and, you know, do right.
They become calm. Right.
Now, if you give that same drug to someone else who doesn't need that,
you're going to fucking bounce all over the walls.
And it's the exact opposite.
Right. So there's some people that can take like narcotics, even
percocets and Oxycontin and shit like that.
And man, they're they're fucking zinging around the fucking place, doing
doing work and talking a million miles an hour.
And then, you know, the next man, you know, he's going to be passed out
for about eight hours.
So it's like depending on the person, you know, it really had.
You know, you can say, you know, I'm a drug addict.
You know, it really had.
You know, you can say like the majority of people experience this.
And yeah, sometimes it's the exact exact opposite, man.
And I found that interesting with those two, because I'm typically
one of those people that if it is more along that indica,
and I say that very openly because that's such a,
you know, coagulated topic of what's indica, what's sativa.
Yeah. But more of those style of plants usually do put me out
and more of the hazes and the sativas, if you will, do bring me up.
But for some reason, Camino G, just they don't fit that profile.
You know what? You could start using. Yeah.
All right, man. Well, fuck, we learned a shit ton on this episode.
I'm so happy throughout all those fucking tips,
taking your time to talk with us about your cultivars,
your plans for the future and sharing so many fucking laughs with me, man.
That was this was by far one of my favorite interviews I've done.
And I'm really glad I got to meet you. Thank you.
Oh, man. Thank you.
What is up, everybody?
Your boy, Doc Calix here before we get going from this episode,
I wanted to ask you, were you aware that we have our very own private discord?
That's right. Very own private discourse.
So you can check it out entirely free at discord.
Dot Gigi forward slash Calix group podcast.
You will be limited to the general chat in the reception area.
You can kind of talk to me.
We can see what's going on with your grower.
You can just share some of your experiences and growing.
It's a great community,
probably one of the best platforms that I've ever dealt with.
If I'm not coming across too cocky, we've got a great team of people in there.
If you want to unlock a little bit more,
if you want a little bit more of the Calix crew podcast experience,
you can check us out on Patreon at Patreon dot com forward slash doc
underscore Calix. We have two different tiers in there.
We have a five dollar tier that unlocks all of the discord.
We have a total of God, like one hundred and sixty one channels in there.
Everything from growing, showing off your glass, showing off your joint art,
teas, brewing teas, integrated pest management,
pretty much anything you can think of.
We've got a team of specialists that are just fucking killing it.
And they're really helping me out teaching guys how to do stuff that even I
didn't know I'm learning shit in there every day.
So I want to give a quick shout out some of those guys that are helping me out.
Shiggity flips are very own SIP specialists.
If you guys aren't familiar with SIP, it's a sub irrigate planner.
It's an awesome way to do organic growing in an organic and growing environment.
He's also on Instagram. You can check him out there. TK Geico,
our scrug specialist. You can find him on Instagram as Monster Scroggin.
Always killing the scrug. If you want to learn how to scrug,
that is the boy to go to. Go check him out.
Tinkle Turp is our host. If you come into the discord,
he will see you right away.
Grow Green Daddy, our lead content creator that helps us out with all of this.
You hear him on the mid rolls.
My funny Australian bastard friend, I love him to death.
And then my other Australian friend, Harshi 83, who's in there
moderating our discord. Awesome, dude.
We also have a $10 tier if you guys want even more behind the scenes content.
We just had an awesome one with Duke on the story of Tommy Two Dicks.
We also do Q&A's with our podcast guests.
We do game day giveaways, the infamous do or dab that everybody's heard of.
You get a chance to come in there, play games, win free prizes,
build a community, an awesome fucking community.
It's worth checking out at least completely for free.
Jump in there, see if you like it.
And we'll go from there.
Love you all. Appreciate y'all.
Thank you for supporting the show.
And I will catch you on the next one.
This is Doc Kallax saying good night and grow right.
