♪♪
♪♪
♪♪
♪♪
People out barbecuing man were smelling it getting all hungry over here.
So yeah, it's been a beautiful day, man.
Beautiful day.
First night.
First beautiful day in a long, long, long time.
Yesterday was like, but today this is the one.
We had an interesting winner.
That was for sure.
That last outdoor season was really rough.
Yeah, really rough.
So I'm hoping for a better one this year that that he'll keep up
and I can finish some flowers a little bit later.
Yeah, that'll be dope.
Right.
Like actually get a full season.
Exactly.
Washington's really hard to get that full season in.
Oh, bro.
Yeah, such a bitch.
So you guys host another podcast called The Smoking With Podcast.
Yeah. Why don't you tell us a little bit about that?
Well, I hit this dad.
Hell yeah, dude.
Well, me and Garrett have been friends for a long time
and smoking buddies for a while and I mean, shit, we got really into like
the nerdy side of weed, like just started deep dive in and watching videos.
And, you know, Garrett was growing there in the beginning.
And, you know, I kind of grew, started growing shortly after him.
And we just always have these deep ass long growing conversations.
And then finally, we were like, you know what?
We should be we should be recording this.
This is this is stuff that I feel like other people would want to listen to.
And, you know, eventually we got down to buying the stuff
we needed and recorded, you know.
Well, I mean, we didn't even buy the stuff for episode number one, episode
number one, we actually had a buddy at my work.
His name was Greg.
And that's the title of the first episode of Smoking With Greg.
And he's just a sound guy for our work or for my work.
They did a lot of in-house commercials and stuff.
And so they needed a production team.
And I just asked them, I was like, hey, dude, like we're trying to do a podcast.
But I don't know shit about Dick, about recording or like audio or anything.
And, you know, I really love your help.
And he so graciously let us come over to his little apartment
and use his mics and his setup.
And yeah, got the ball rolling.
Oh, yeah, man.
So how many episodes did you guys get in before you're like,
we're going to do this, like we're going to invest in some equipment
and start doing this ourselves?
One.
Yeah, I think after that first episode,
pretty much beyond that, like right after that, we went and went on Amazon,
bought these mics that are in the shot today and bought one audio box.
And we didn't really know how to use it very well.
It was like a USB one upgraded or got another one
because Josh was out of town quite a bit.
And we had to do that from afar just because of his job.
But then we got the one that we're using today, which is great.
It's like the pod track.
Like the pod track.
Yeah, the pod track P4 and it's got like four soundbite options for it.
It's got four channels and it's I don't know, it's really good.
So that was our like latest purchase.
And we have a camera as well.
It just doesn't work very good.
So that was kind of a shitty purchase.
But, you know, it's all it's all in the in the learning process.
But yeah, from like episode two, I would say we invested into
at least these mics to get good audio quality,
because that was one of the things that like was priority for us.
Is, you know, we listen to podcasts and some of them,
you know, just don't have the best quality just audio wise.
And so it's kind of hard to listen to sometimes.
And that was one of the things that we were just like dead set.
No, we have to have at least some sort of, you know,
at least mid range quality mic. Yeah.
And landed on these and they sound pretty, pretty good.
I think. All right. Yeah.
Oh, I'm coming in very decent.
Hell yeah.
So the smoking with podcasts, you started this just your smoke buddies.
You're hanging out, smoking all the time, getting into these deep conversations.
Where did it go from there? Is that what it still is?
Is it just smoking?
I mean, it as we,
I guess, mature as growers in like cannabis, we're both in the industry.
So it's it's evolved into more of
like a grow talk kind of situation where, you know, we try to cover some topics
or some news that's related to the industry or, you know,
some tidbits of information we got or, you know, latest grow or product review.
But we always try to keep that aspect of keeping it like loose and free.
And, you know, if we want to talk about something totally sidebar, we do.
And, you know, that happens often, especially with guests, because
the whole criteria for us doing this was we wanted people to come on the show
and feel like they were smoking with us. Right.
Like we wanted the listeners at home to feel like, oh, shit.
Yeah. Like I feel like I'm at a smoke sesh right now with these guys.
And I wanted to keep it really like low key and and comfortable.
Our first guests weren't super, you know, experienced podcasters. Right.
So it kind of helped ease them in by, you know, it's just a regular conversation
and we're going to pass around a joint.
And, you know, we kind of that's the one thing we want to keep going forward.
Is that that vibe? Oh, yeah. That's important.
I think a lot of people that are at home, especially stoners
that are into like our kind of niche of podcasting.
That's what they're looking for is not that.
I mean, we all know we love information, learning more about this plant.
It's fucking amazing.
If you can find some other way to incorporate something into your grow,
that's going to work with it.
Then you get down that wormhole.
It doesn't matter.
And you just keep going down that wormhole and learning more and more.
But as stoners, there's also so much attention time that you have for it,
you know, before you start going off into the other stuff.
So if it gets too serious, they kind of throw me off.
I've listened to quite a few that are very, very scientific cannabis podcast.
And I can listen to them and I love them.
But I can only listen to so much before I'm like, OK,
I need to take this information and.
You know, break that down, then I'll take some more, you know,
so it helps to break that ice, especially when you're getting guests on
to throw curveballs like that, which I will be doing with you guys.
I want to ask each of you, though, really quick.
Individually, what was your favorite episode?
That's you.
It's hard to quantify that.
And I think when we were on, we were just recently on another podcast
with Derek and he asked us
a very similar question, and it's very hard to nail it down
because they're especially our guest episodes.
There's just so much information packed in there, as well as like people's story
and stuff like that.
And it's it's hard to just like say one episode.
But I think my favorite type of episode is when we would just get stupid high.
I guess I'll break it into a type is when we just get dumb high.
We'll start off talking about weed.
But yeah, like you said, it just kind of just goes in a completely
different direction.
And those are fun because you at a certain point in the conversation,
the mics aren't in front of you anymore in your head.
That you're just you're just talking and then you don't
you don't have any expectation for the show.
And those are just so freelance when having guests on it.
There's more of a structure to it, right?
You want to dig into them.
And those are great in their own right, because like I said,
there's nuggets of information and stuff like that that you can get from these
people about, you know, the way they grow or whatever.
But yeah, the freelance free form.
Smoking just episodes were really, really fun, but I can't say a favorite.
I got one that's been coming to my mind lately.
I won't I guess I'll give the political put it out front.
I love every single one of our guests, and I'm glad that they gave us the time
that they did. And, you know, most people, especially the breeder episodes,
like I learned so much just from talking to somebody for an hour. Right.
So they're super cool.
But man, my favorite was like we had this girl on name Aaliyah,
but we had done a back to back.
So right before we had her on, we were doing another recording with my homie
Yonder and he was just there like he was like, yeah, I was like,
you want to stick around, dude, like you can just keep smoking with us.
And he was like, yeah, sure.
And so like we just surprised guests on this other podcast.
And I mean, it was really fun.
We smoked and, you know, he actually brought some stuff to that one, too.
So I was like, oh, OK, this ended up being OK.
But it was just a super long session.
I'm like, yeah, fuck it, dude. You can be here.
I was already high at that point.
So it sounded like you're going. Yeah.
There's certainly an evolution to our podcast, though.
There's those days where we would go for like two or three hours
and put that whole episode together
and would just go off on just the most random, random things we could find.
Whatever was in the news or whatever, that was just kind of a funny story.
We would talk about it and then have our own
opinion on it. But yeah, no, definitely.
We've kind of gone into this more cannabis niche
and we're still open to having whoever on and talking about anything.
I mean, we've had, you know, people, yoga instructors do,
you know, Aaliyah, you were just talking about.
She she's like a very mindful type person.
Yeah. Like more spirituality, mindfulness, like positivity kind of thing.
Yeah. We've had people who are
into cooking, and I mean, I've had people in Oklahoma that
we did like a Pokemon card episode.
That was pretty fun with my homie Riley, and he's a man, too.
But like 90% of the episode was like Pokemon cards.
I like the ones that are unexpected like that.
You know, if it's too structured, it's not fun anymore.
Yeah. Right. You have to have those fucking hooks.
Yeah. So I didn't even ask you guys.
I see Josh is over there with a joint.
I think I saw Garrett with a joint earlier.
We're passing joint.
Oh, shit. You guys are in the same room. Yeah.
Yes, sir.
I could have swore Josh was out somewhere.
I tell. Yeah, I tell.
I tell him that all the time.
I was like, it looks like we're in different places, but we're always in the same spot.
I can do. So what are you guys smoking on today?
That's the Singapore sling.
That's a Tiki Madman collab situation from a while ago that we had at our facility.
When I first started working there,
the first iteration of this that I tried was like not not good.
You know, like I'm sorry.
Sounds like you're going really easy.
Yeah, it was it was pretty trash, dude.
And like I was it was harsh.
And I was like, oh, man, this is like this can't be what we're putting out all the time.
Right. Like, you know, like in my head, I wasn't going to say that on a brand new job,
but I was like, damn, this is this is rough.
And then, you know, we tried it a couple more times and it just never got the legs.
It never got to where it was going to go.
But then they were like, hey, we want we really want this to work.
Right. So they tried it one more time.
And actually, this last time, dude, it's it's good.
You know, it's got potential.
And I'm like, OK, well, you know, if we tweak this a little bit more, I'd I'd fuck with this hardcore.
It smells good. It's got good structure now.
And I mean, the high is pretty great.
I'm pretty focused.
It's more like on the hybrid sativa side of life for me.
And we don't have a lot of those that are facility.
Most of the shit, it's like knockout, like straight indica put you down into the floor.
And the ones we do are like the citrus turps, which are seem like in in at least Washington,
that's like the bottom of people's choice for terpene profiles.
So it's it's hard.
But those ones we have also there, there are Sherb cross.
It's emergency from Sea Junkie.
They released it a little while ago, but it's Sherb to blow blow pops orange, orange blow pops.
So it's got citrus, but it also has like some Sherb to it.
So it it kind of is a good segue, I guess, into it rather than it just being like full force.
Trap cookies. Yeah.
Like the name drop with the trap cookies for sure, we we have a very love hate relationship with the trap cookies.
This is all dangly motherfucker.
It is. And it's like the bud tastes so good when trap kind of cookies is grown, right?
It's really, really tasty, but the high, it's not bad.
It's not the best, but it's not bad at all.
Yeah. But yeah, just growing her.
She's just kind of a bitch.
Oh, I could tell people like with warm cookies, tropicana cookies at the end of the grow.
It's kind of like you got a finger in the bubble at the end of sex.
Like you're like, oh, that was nice.
But yeah. And then you go to harvest it.
And you're like, I got fucked.
They're like this small after they dry.
They're just tiny little pinner.
Could be exactly. Yeah, exactly.
But they are some pretty flowers, too.
Yeah. And they taste good, right?
They have their place.
Yeah. It takes some patience.
Extracts. That's for sure.
Yeah. Yeah. That would be a good one.
So when did both of you get into growing?
Like what was your first experience with cannabis?
I'll let you go. That's chronologically.
Yeah. You know, it's hard to put a date on it.
I don't know exactly when.
I just know it was roughly when I was around twenty twenty one.
I believe it was twenty one because we had dispensaries here and I was able.
I was buying weed out of dispensaries.
So twenty one, we'll say that.
We I've been hold up back.
I've been smoking since I was 16.
That's when I first first got introduced to it.
I was in high school and was really off and on with it
and then had some friends who whose parents grew and stuff like that
and was constantly around weed. Right.
And I had access to it. So I just.
And then I got to the point to where I was like smoking daily
like I am now.
And so it got to a point to where me and my buddy were just like,
we really want to grow this.
It was a different buddy before I met Josh and started growing with him. But.
We decided that we wanted to grow the weed and hope in hopes
to make some money, not make money off it, but like, I guess, recoup our money
from the like spending it on dispensary.
So rather than spending it at the dispo that we just kicking in.
So I'm kind of rambling here.
It tends to happen. I'm sorry.
You're fine, man.
But we got some we got some seeds.
He ordered some up out of like Amsterdam or something like that.
There were some northern lights that he was a real big fan of.
And so we decided to grow that.
And it was like sketchy style, right?
Like send them a money order and then hope the seeds come later.
Yeah, but it was his money.
So I was totally OK with it happening.
I was like, all right, if you want to do that, man, like whatever.
But yeah, we grew those in a kind of fucky way.
We grew them in soil to start under some like CFL bulbs, like two of them.
And then he had been reading a lot about like DWC and stuff like that.
And he was like, I want I think I want to do that.
And so he was like, I think I want to transplant the ones that we have in soil.
They were about like, yay, big.
And I don't know why we thought that that would be a good idea,
but we were brand new to it.
So we're like, all right.
I was like, all right, you think this is going to work?
And he's like, yeah, you just got to wash off the roots
and set them in this hydroton stuff.
And I was like, all right, man, like whatever.
Like out of the I think we had like five or six plants, like three,
two or three of them made it.
And we had swapped.
He had bought like one of those blurple lights off Amazon for like 100 bucks.
The ones with the fans that are awful.
And I've seen some really good bud off of a couple of those brands.
I know what you're talking about, but like,
God damn, now I can't even think of the name of them either.
But like Viper Spectra, yeah, Viper Spectra was one of them.
There was like Bloom.
I don't know.
Bloom Plus was kind of like yellow.
There's a few of them, though.
The Viper Spectra are the ones that come to mind the most.
This is like the onboard fans that would, you know,
blow all the heat away from the light and whatnot.
But yeah, I've seen some really pretty buds on there.
It's just a matter of your environment.
This wasn't this wasn't like a bootleg version of not this one.
No. And, you know, we didn't know shit about environment or anything like that.
They were growing under this little under the stairs closet in there.
And I mean, we did decent.
There was it was it wasn't successful.
I wouldn't say I don't I don't ever remember really.
I can't even think of harvesting that bud.
Like, I can't even remember that.
That's how like I don't.
That's why I can't say it was successful.
I don't like it.
Such a bad experience.
We did some really, really dumb stuff, and I continue to do dumb stuff,
but I'm a little more calculated with it now.
Like, I understand.
It's all components, right?
Yeah. Yeah.
No, you're never going to be perfect.
You know, 24 seven ain't going to happen.
Sorry.
Yeah. But that was my introduction to, you know, grow and weed
and eventually, you know, did some butt ending stuff
and then finally made my way into a grow here in Washington.
So. Oh, yeah, man.
That's awesome.
Yeah. So did Garrett influence you, Josh?
No, like a little bit.
I was thinking about it at the time we were working together.
Just like started construction together,
like we were doing some like remodel type stuff with this investor guy.
And I had been to his house.
I'd smoked over there.
I'd seen, you know, the tent or the little gross space,
you know, with the blurple light, you'd open it up and oh, God.
And then let your eyes adjust for like three seconds
and then you could actually see the plant,
you know, like fucking around with that.
And I was like, OK, well, they're doing the thing.
And then, you know, I'd seen when they started doing the DWC,
there was the like three in there in the five gallon buckets.
Like I remember that.
And shortly after that time, my brother hit me up
and he was like, hey, I started growing this weed plant,
but I don't know what's wrong with it.
Could you figure it out?
And he asked me because he knew I knew people who grow weed.
And, you know, he's like, I don't know anybody.
Right. So I'm like, OK, well,
let me see what's up, like send me a picture of your plant.
And he sends me this picture and it's a fucking like, you know, 18 inch plant.
And it's in a like, you know, those soup bowls,
but are also mugs like it's got a little mug handle on it.
Yeah. Like bigger mug.
So he had it in that.
So I would say maybe like a solo cup and a half worth of dirt
for this 18 inch plant.
And he was drainage holes.
No, no.
It was like just sitting in soup pretty much.
And he had he had it growing in the windowsill,
but like facing the south side of the house.
So there was never like any direct sunlight ever.
It was just always like getting ambient sunlight from the window.
And I was like, OK, so right off the bat, I don't know a lot about a lot right now,
but I know that you need lights to grow weed.
I know that you can't just put it in your windowsill and do the thing.
It's at least got to be like outside, like catching a lot of sun.
Right. Like you can't.
That's number one.
And I was like, number two, like that's not a pot.
Dude, that's a cup like you need to get it out of the cup
and into like an actual pot for plants.
Like, you know, I'm like, that's that's what I'm thinking.
And he was like, OK, well, like, do you want to take it?
Because I can't grow it any bigger than it is now.
And I was like, sure, man, but it's probably going to die. Right.
Like I was like, it's already in a bad spot. It looks hella sick.
It's like turning yellow.
It's got different spots on the leaves.
Yeah. I had spider mites, too.
It was just like like this plant was doomed to fail. Right.
And I was like, fuck it, dude. Send it to me.
So he gives it to me.
I go buy some shit.
We've like bought these lights off of a
like offer up.
We went and met some sketchy dude who used to grow some like black market
grow in Tacoma that was like, yeah, not Tacoma.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
We got a job.
We're like more on the federal way side of things.
So it's like kind of like out in the cuts.
So we're over there and he just, you know, shows up in this SUV,
sells us these lights and I shit you not, dude, gets into like a fucking other car,
like a charger that's already parked on the same lot and drives off.
Bro, like it was so weird.
It was so sketch.
I was like, dude, he just like I feel like these lights are stolen or something.
But, you know, we took him anyways.
We're like, fuck it, dude, it's offer up.
He's not going to say anything.
We're not got our money.
Yeah, we gave him the money.
We took the things.
It's a different area code.
We're all good.
Yeah, we just we drove back south.
And then I was like, OK, so I took one of these.
It was like one of those Magnum XXL like.
And did I have a metal halide in it first?
I don't remember.
I had something.
It was it was not efficient.
It was hella hot.
That is HBS.
Oh, OK.
Little orange. Yeah.
Well, HBS, it was doing the thing.
Thousand watt.
And I like hung it and I put it over this little plant and this like,
I think I transplanted it into like a plastic one gallon.
And it came back to life, dude.
They'd live.
And yeah, so I was like, OK, well, now I actually have to grow this fucking plant.
Right. Like it didn't die.
So now I'm like researching and I'm looking at all the shit I'm asking.
Garrett, a million seven questions.
Right. Like, oh, what about this?
And, you know, like he's letting me borrow nudes and shit like that
and coming and checking on the plant and like we flowered this thing out.
We ended up like he had some pollen from one of his plants
and we ended up seeding like half of it.
And we got hella seeds off of it.
Now we still have them to this day.
Like that's like supposedly the bag seed that my brother grew was from Acapulco
gold, but like I can't confirm or deny that.
So I'm not going to call it that.
I'm like, I'm not going to say this is a land race without knowing.
Well, it was it was cross to
tangerine dream seeds that I got when I went up to Canada.
They just somehow like was in my pocket when I got home.
It was weird. I like went up there.
We got some weed, smoked that weed, and then I got home
and there was seeds in my pocket that said tangerine dream.
I don't know how they got there, but that there was a male out of that.
And that went to this Acapulco gold.
And we have some seeds here.
And somebody just ran them recently.
And yeah, I sent them to a homie over there in New York, and they're currently
flowering. So we'll see how those.
I mean, it's doing the thing.
Yeah, the old ass seeds, bro.
Like I don't know, like five years ago now, like five, six years ago.
And yeah, like I mean, I got a bunch of bud off of it, too.
Like we smoked it. I was like, wow, this was hella successful.
Like I felt good.
I felt like I had a green thumb.
I was like, yeah, this is I can do no wrong with plants.
And then I did my second run.
Yeah, that was the exact same real run.
Oh man, I'm a natural at this.
And then you lay off on the second one.
You're like, fuck, absolutely.
Get that awesome.
That's an awesome boomerang, guys.
You went with this this horrible, sketchy Tacoma story about picking up
lights and then three seeds in your pocket.
Yeah, that's awesome.
Yeah. Fuck yeah.
You know, you guys are from Washington, too.
So I apologize to my Tacoma people.
You know, I love I mean, I'm from there.
Like they know exactly.
And I feel like most Tacoma people, you know, be like, I don't fuck with Tacoma.
And most Tacoma people would be like, hey, well, fair enough.
The answer is always, well, this part of Tacoma is OK.
Like it's never like, oh, well, Tacoma is fine.
It's always like, well, this this one section,
if you drive over to that part of Tacoma, it's cool.
Like there's like mansions and like totally.
We don't talk about like the south side.
We don't talk about the east side.
There's not you don't talk about hilltop, really.
Like it's just like, oh, well, like the north end of Tacoma, like downtown.
That's cool. Like that's it.
I've been to anywhere else.
Sketchy places in Washington, but Tacoma is one that I don't like going to
and Chinatown and like Portland.
I guess that's still Oregon.
But yeah, that Chinatown, Portland, holy shit.
At Portland, I've been chased by a literal clan of bums
in Chinatown.
I just like my work there.
And we were riding those little electric scooters that you paid for that.
You're right. Oh, yeah.
You guys want to have fun, go down to Portland, rent those things,
just get high as fuck.
You can smoke a joint just like going down the water pier down there at night.
Oh, it's so much fun.
Just do not go to Chinatown.
Do not go to China.
You don't want to be a whole crowd of bums.
Yeah, like
sounds dangerous.
Yeah, my my woman at the time, her and I were going down
to Portland. She goes, I want to see Chinatown.
I go and I've been around Portland quite a bit.
And I said, you don't want to go to Chinatown.
And she goes, Yes, I do.
I want to see it.
And I was like, all right, fine.
And she is so ADHD.
She's just oblivious to everything.
We were on this one corner and all of a sudden there was a bunch of
and they look like heroin addicts, just like, oh, it was horrible.
They were definitely grouped up and doing shit.
And she just blast by them, just completely oblivious.
And then I'm behind her, like protecting her ass.
And I turn around, this guy's like, Hey, what are you doing on our turf?
And him and like 15 bums just come rushing at us.
And she's just like, dude, dude, dude, dude.
Oblivious.
And I'm behind her and I'm like, you know, this fucking scooter.
She's like, what's the problem?
I was like, he didn't see the army of fucking bums chasing us.
Harder. Come on now.
Yeah, that sounds like a scary movie beginning for sure.
Wow. Good thing you were there to save the day, dog.
I feel like and the scooters were fast, right?
Like you had to.
I mean, for scooters, they're pretty damn quick.
They get it. I mean, they're obviously a bunch of like,
I guess they're on heroin.
So that is a downer.
So maybe that's like made them.
Yeah. Like, you know, I mean, they were running this fucker to bite me.
Like, I don't know what you might turn into a zombie for real.
Exactly.
Homeless people, just bums are are this generation's zombies.
Yeah. Well, I mean, out there for long enough.
Yeah. It's like, oh,
isn't that like an episode of South Park or something?
If not, it should be.
Yeah, but I think it is. Yeah. Yeah. I think it was. Yeah.
OK, so I got my first hook question for you guys.
OK. If you were to start a secret society, what would you call it?
Oh, what? A secret society.
No, I heard the man. I just told you it was a hook.
I got nothing, bro.
I don't I've never even thought about that.
I don't. Right. That's the point.
I know I'm going to have this dead air while we sit here and talk about it.
I would call it octopus.
They're just straight up. Just octopus. Yeah.
What would it be about?
I don't like octopuses or so.
How smart? Right. So I'm thinking like, is that where you're like Hydra?
Well, I also thought like logo later and I was like, I could just rip
the Hydra logo and turn it into an octopus off of like Captain America.
I was like, easy.
I'm like, all right, perfect.
Octopus. They're smart.
They're fucking cool.
They can change colors and shit.
I don't know. That sounds like shit.
You're going for like the human reptile secret society.
Yeah, yeah.
You still still got nothing over there, Garrett.
Mm hmm.
I don't I just I don't either.
Never come.
I just there's nothing man, nothing coming to my mind like I would want it.
I don't know if it was to be like a secret society.
Where why are we secret?
I don't want things to be secret.
Well, maybe like, you know, like maybe a secret for a good reason.
Right. But like, what do I got to hide? Right.
Like the only thing I could think of is like a secret society of weed.
But like, I mean, it's a planet or something.
Yeah. You can't save the planet.
If you know you're out there trying to say.
Or or we're like the government was.
I feel like that's the.
I'm going to keep it all secret, right?
I want people to know so they can help me save the planet.
You know, like, I don't know. I don't know.
That's too much power.
That's too much power for one man.
I mean, it could be a big ass society, right?
You could have a huge society.
Oh, yeah. Yeah.
I mean, it could be three people. OK.
Yeah, it could be three million people.
I don't know, dude.
I love the letter Z.
So it would probably start with Z.
Like I got two dogs.
They're both they both start with Z.
I don't know.
They'd be like like Zen Topia.
I don't know. Something like that.
Zen Topia.
Wow. You hit me with Zen Topia.
And I was really expecting you to go like some like really
hardcore German name that starts with a Z.
I'm not.
I was like, yeah, OK.
Why tonight?
Yeah, right.
I was like, oh, that sounds like a like a scary secret.
Yeah, I was going to say, we're going to see their society.
I swear I'm not putting it in German.
Like a bad recipe.
People be like, what the fuck is that?
You're both originally from Washington, though.
Yeah, I was born in Seattle.
Oh, right on.
What about you get?
Yep. Yep. Right here in Olympia.
Oh, in Olympia. Right on.
I go through Olympia quite often, man.
Actually, I'm going to be headed over there, probably
through there towards the end of July.
Oh, dude. And then maybe again in November.
So let us know if you're in the area.
Well, we'll we'll smoke down or do something.
Yeah. I mean, for a little while, we could actually take you to the facility
and give you a little tour.
Oh, fuck. Yeah, that'd be badass.
Yeah. Fuck yeah.
Oh, that's an interesting tattoo you have on your arm, man.
What's that?
This is Hebrew for protector of Israel.
My son's name is Israel and I wanted to get a tattoo for him.
But I like he came super early.
So the time I had to think and plan this out was like cut down to like two days.
And so I was like, oh, OK, I'm just going to get this.
And I had a homie who was
he'd studied Hebrew.
So he was like, I think these are the words you're going to look for.
And so I did. I looked it up on Google and sure shit.
They're the words that he said that they were going to be.
And then this lady who was Jewish that I met later, she like read it.
She's like, oh, that's so cute.
Like, no problem.
So I was like, OK, it doesn't say like soy sauce or something on my arm.
Like I wanted it to say,
yeah, worked out good.
Got it. Oklahoma, like right before I came to see my son.
I saw this image one time, it cracked me up.
But it shows all these Americans walking around
with like Chinese letters and stuff tattooed on their arm.
And then I said, imagine if China was like this and they just had like water
written on their arm in English.
Yeah, that would be fucking.
And I never thought about Chinese tattoos the same after that.
There's so much better than like, I mean, people do that, right?
People do fucking stupid words up their forearms or across their chest
or like that's a thing.
It looks cool.
I like the Japanese characters.
I like Chinese characters.
You know, it's cool writing.
But when you think of it in that perspective, I'm just like, yeah, yeah.
Like imagine going to the country and that's their thing.
Why do you have that?
Just go in a foreign country and see an English letters tattooed on.
Half the half the tattoos would be something weird
because they think it's this, but it's not.
It's like translates all weird.
Yeah. So you're like, why do you have that dude on your body?
Like that? Please don't barn door written on.
Yeah, this means strength.
And you're like, no,
you see it all the time with like, I don't know, like you'll
there'll be means essentially of it, but it's like clothing.
A lot of the clothing over there, the like knockoff clothing is like
misinterpreted or miss.
So I assume the same principles would happen if you were to get a tattoo
of of an English word.
Yeah. Oh, yeah. 100%.
Exactly.
And plus, English is such a fucking hard language to like learn and understand.
And so is Chinese.
Like so each other trying to understand each other, like the worst combo.
Right. Like you any other way to have a better.
Right. Yeah. I need a Chinese person.
Right. Like people who are bilingual Chinese, English,
they're genius third level.
I know quite a few languages,
but I'm not fluent in like any of them except for English.
I can get by with most of them if I sit there and I listen
and I take my time to speak it back and think about what I'm saying.
But I'm not just like off the cusp.
Oh, yeah, I got this, you know.
Even that's impressive, dude.
Like just being able to understand and communicate with people,
like even if it took you a long time, because I think about meeting,
you know, people from different countries here in America
and like any English that they speak.
I'm like, yeah, dude, like I'll fucking like tell me like I want to hear
what you're saying, you know, even if it's broken and they got a thick accent,
like whatever, I'm going to try to understand.
And so I feel like it's the same. Right.
Like they just appreciate that you're trying to communicate with them
in a way that they can understand.
So like they're like, yeah, I don't.
So if you could learn any other language, what would you learn?
I'm already kind of halfway there with Spanish, just, you know, heritage wise,
but maybe Japanese.
I watch a lot of anime, like a dumb amount.
And in fact, I don't watch any TV period except for anime.
Like there's not another show where I'm like, yeah, I watched that
like maybe once a year.
I'll like watch a different type of show.
But like it's 90 percent of the time it's anime.
Right. That makes a lot of sense.
My first instinct is just to say Russian.
And I think the only reason why is because like, I don't know, it sounds cool.
Similar to German, like I already know a little bit of German
and have gone over and visited for a couple of weeks there
through an exchange program, which is really cool.
But I don't know, Russian.
And plus, I play a lot of video games and some of those video games
have a big Russian fan base like CSGO or like Escape from Tarkov.
And so like, I don't know, to be able to communicate or just like talk shit to them
because they don't talk shit to Americans in that game.
That'd be kind of funny.
I learned the whole language just to talk shit online.
Also, probably kind of like low key useful in the political climate.
Right. Right.
Hell yeah. That's awesome.
Russian and German are two very angry sounding languages.
Yeah. And like, I'm not going to lie.
German is like it's like an ugly language to me when I like
when I think about German, it doesn't it's not soft and like sweet and like sound good.
It's like if somebody was going to yell at me or be mean, it would sound good in German.
But if somebody wanted to like sweet talk, sweet nothings into my ear
in a whisper and they're speaking German, I'd be like, what do you do?
It's a lot of consonants.
I don't know any Russian at all, but I knew a little bit of Ukrainian.
And at the time, I did not know that there was much of a difference.
But I had a couple of friends that were Russian
and I had a couple other friends that were Ukrainian.
The Ukrainians were the ones that were teaching me Ukrainian.
But then I would talk to my Russian friends and they would understand
what I was saying, but they look at me like you're saying that like all messed up.
And I was like, it's Ukrainian.
They're like, yeah, it's like slang.
It's like it's like Hispanic compared to like true Spanish.
Yeah. Like they understand each other.
But it's like, yeah.
But people from Spain are like, yeah, on a different
on a different level.
Like, I don't even like hearing them talk some of the like ways
that they put accents on their word or like the way that they like
say the sound of like with a list.
But it's like like they're constantly spitting on yours.
And then, yeah, it doesn't it doesn't sound very good to me.
It's more akin to like that type of Spanish, though, is like how I get like
French and Italian and them being all the same thing, because it's kind of all got
that same air of what that Latin base.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah. So I didn't even ask you guys, I asked you what you were smoking on.
What's your favorite type of cannabis?
Like, what do you primarily go after?
The I would say like the the necrotic type of effect, not not not not
me alive. Yeah, I'm dying.
Oh, we just hit the second joint and it's a different type of weed.
It's a really stony stuff.
But the stuff they can just like, I don't know.
Like, yeah, put me out.
But like or like narcotics, more so relax me and not
fuck with my brain functionality, not like really slow me down up top,
but also just like slows my body down because and Josh is more so worse
about this than me, but we don't stop fidgeting.
That's just kind of ingrained.
Like if you're if you're standing still, like I it just doesn't work for me.
It doesn't feel good.
So to have something to slow my body down, but like keep my mind alert
is always my go to.
That make that makes three fidgeters in the room.
I'm with you.
I'm like my wedding ring for London.
Oh, yeah.
The lighter. Yeah.
How are you, Josh? What are you into?
Well, I'm like kind of on the other side of the cusp.
I like me a hybrid that's got like some sativa effects.
Like those are always my like go back.
Like, oh, I miss that.
We like today on the way home from work.
I'm like, oh, it's really nice outside.
I'd love to smoke some lemon skunk right now.
And I was like, fuck, dude, there's I'm not going to be able to find that.
Anywhere, so now I have to grow some and I'm like, well, how do I get seeds and,
you know, like I'm like, I know skunk is like one of those ones,
like in order to get real skunk, you got to get them from like greenhouse
or something in Amsterdam.
And so I was like, I wonder if I can like lemon skunk is like that, right?
Or if somebody's got them and like I'm not finding any reputable sites
or breeders that got lemon skunk and everything that I am finding
is all like sketchy and no reviews.
And like, yeah, just making me feel weird about it.
Like the one country or like one out of,
I don't know, maybe 10 legal countries like we're the only ones
that they don't ship to like directly.
All we can get you a lemon skunk seed, man.
OK, well, good.
And I like guys need seeds.
I mean, I can hook you up with that.
I don't need the seeds, you know, like there's a bunch of other shit
I probably should grow, you know, that I'm just like looking at.
Like I got my little collection, but like, you know,
now you go to Amsterdam, that's right here, buddy.
I'm about it. Thank you, sir.
Get you taking care.
But yeah, like those like lemony, like citrusy or grapefruit
kind of like notes with like some funk, like some like
like some feet or some some something, you know, like or some skunkiness.
Like, I don't know.
I kind of like that contrast and the effects for me are always kind of.
Like they don't mellow me out, they keep me focused,
and I like being able to like be happy and be relaxed, but also be able to do
things, I am 90 percent certain I have like some undiagnosed ADD, ADHD.
And so like having something that like helps me
stay on target for longer than six seconds is dope.
Right. So I'm like, oh, I love that.
We like that. That was good for me because I can literally head down on this task,
focus in and just go and crush it.
Oh, yeah, man.
Would you say that limiting terpene was like
one of your more favorable profiles?
But it's more like the funk from the like
because anything that smells like GMO or like just like makes you puke
in your mouth a little bit is really where I'm like, oh, I want to smoke that.
But like that with that, like someone's on top of that,
you know, like I like those combos because I don't like just straight up orange,
like Tangy's cool, but like, you know, it's not my thing.
Tropic. OK, nice.
Sometimes time it's got enough pining in there to be different.
You know, it's almost like an orangey haze and.
But like when you get that funk, but you can you can get a little bit of the citrus,
I don't know, this is a good combo for me.
Yeah, I think weed is situational, like like you were that you were just asking.
I was like, what our favorite type is.
But yeah, I think like you were saying on a nice day like today,
I wouldn't like to just be on the couch zoned out, you know.
So, yeah, I think we is definitely situational.
There's plenty of times where I fall.
Josh and I have the similar palette when it comes to weed.
So we're generally smoking and can agree on the same things.
That's why we're good.
Smoking buddies. That's how this started, because it's like, I like that.
I like that, too. OK, let's get it.
We're going to go smoke that.
Oh, yeah, dude.
That's a good smoke partner to have.
Yeah. So we both worked at Dank's.
It would be like, oh, have you tried that yet?
No. And I'm like, you should.
And then you go get it.
And you're like, damn, I'm just that in other.
Yeah. Oh, yeah.
So, Garrett, what about terpene profiles?
Anything but the haze terpene profile like the haze.
Oh, no.
Like me, like I don't mind the flavor, right?
Like I can get down on it, but it just it puts my anxiety through the roof.
Did you say the haze doesn't like me? Correct.
He wants he wants to like that.
I don't like the haze. It's not true.
Like, honestly, I'll smoke that stuff and I'm like, damn, that tastes really good.
I mean, it's just like a refreshing pine tree or like, you know, some rosemary
not. And then my body starts, my heart starts beating.
And I and then my brain starts focusing solely on that.
And it's like, oh, that's beating pretty loud.
And then then you go through this
like stair step of paranoia.
Yeah. And there's weird paranoia.
And you're like, oh, shit, am I even breathing right?
Like this, like it feels like something's in my lung.
Maybe I should go to the hospital.
No, you don't need to go to the hospital. You're OK.
Yeah, let's just hop on.
It really fucks with Garrett and like almost like sometimes he's allergic.
Like he'll like sneeze and get itchy eyes and like, oh, shit.
Yeah, it's like not.
It's not pleasurable. Yeah.
And I'm over here like, no, this is pretty cool, man.
But
I'm sure that, yeah, that's our only difference is like,
I'll smoke a straight up sativa sativa.
And he's got to be careful about which ones he does.
There's there's I really, really like hazes,
but I do prefer a little bit of the indica.
I say that very fucking loosely indica, but like more after you bred into it,
where it's going to bring it a step down, but it's still leaning
towards the sativa side, you know. Right.
I can get down on the cross.
The haze crosses like I've gotten some lemon hazes that have done me all right.
Super silver is my worst enemy.
And then like just classic hazes is just not not for me,
like the old piffs and stuff like that. I just can't do it.
But there are there have been crosses that that I'm like, oh, I can
I can enjoy this this haze.
But yeah, not this, not the straight ups, not the pioneer heavy go getters.
I've been getting into growing a little bit more of the hash cultivars
just because I want to play with making my own ash rosin.
OK, so just made made bubble hash for years, pressed flower rosin.
But I've never gone through pressing my bubble hash
because I covet bubble hash so much that if I have it, I just smoke it as bubble.
And I love that.
Like if I had to be on a desert island and they said,
there's only one method you can use from now on, I'd be like, give me some ash.
What what what makes that like what? Why?
I need to understand that I've never been able to like truly ask somebody
why like bubble hash or just it's usually some old dude coming in to buy it
when I was a bartender and he would always hit the hash and he's like,
this stuff is legit and I've tried it myself. Right.
But like I don't like in your mind, why is that so like upper level?
I've always been a flower guy for the most part.
I enjoy rolling joints, even when dabs came around.
I didn't get into them for a long time just because it was like, oh,
that got me high really quick.
But it takes the experience away from it.
When you're in a circle with your friends and shit and you can sit there for,
you know, a half hour pass around a couple of joints or something,
have these big long conversations next to, hey, you want this done? Yeah.
And it was a little messy when it started out, right?
Like doing dabs way back in the day looked really weird.
Like some of the shit looked like pickles.
And I was like, I don't remember fucking night and shit in the stove.
Yeah. Strong. Yeah.
Yeah. It looked like fucking drug.
This is still kind of does like my dad will come around and see me take a dab.
He's just like you.
Close is just weed.
One being.
The way it looks like fucking my pipe.
So to answer your question,
I always appreciate joints because it had the full flavor of the plant.
And that's what I love is the flavor of the plant.
I love that experience with it, too.
Hash. When you're smoking bubble hash, it burns for quite a while.
And it's a thick smoke.
But the thing is, you've isolated those glands.
There's still a little bit of contaminants, whether it's stocks
or like, you know, small leaf matter or whatever, depending on what grade of hash
you have.
But I feel like you get all the cannabinoids,
every bit of that plant and that flavor is just packed there.
And then when you press into hash rosin, unless your environment's exactly,
you know, like perfect, like you have a cold room ready for it,
a cold environment, cold storage, cold water, everything,
you know, your spatulas, everything are cold.
You're going to lose terpenes through the process, through processing it.
Hash cures really well.
So the oxidation on the outside will change the color of that
and it'll make like a hard shell and kind of preserve everything that's in there.
So that I feel I'm really interested in making the hash
rosin just because it's pretty and I'm interested in making consistencies
like diamonds and sugar and because we blew BHO back in the day.
But that's just so fucking bad for you.
You never get all of that out.
Even I'm not talking shit, but even a lot of the rec industry.
I taste some of these BHOs and you go like, it's definitely still there.
Like you can't have a twang.
You're like, oh, yeah, there's some really good guys.
Doing it out there.
But then there's some that you're just like, OK, you open it up
and that shit's like fucking dark amber orange.
And you're like, I can fucking see the butane and.
Fair enough.
No, I.
Ash was always the best for me.
Now, can you make me a believer, sir?
Like I subscribe like you.
That was a good explanation.
I'm like, yeah, yeah.
Well, as you're talking about it, I'm sitting over here like me
and Josh have ranted and raved about rosin like you would always say.
We would always talk about rosin in that way.
And like, that's just one step further than the stuff you're smoking. Right.
So you said you wanted to play around with the hash rosin.
And I was just questioning you on a question I already had the answer to.
So, you know, sorry about that.
But I get it was just it's just a different.
It's just a different process, I guess.
Like you don't dab the bubble hash. Right.
So I don't know.
I guess maybe that's like the predecessor.
Right. It's just, you know, I get it.
I get it. For me, it's the cocoon version.
You know, it's like it's good.
But when you like squish that into some five star or six star or whatever, like
that is the it's the plan, right?
It's like the essence of the plan.
Yeah. They need to start paying me to do ratings.
Yeah, dude.
You know that plan for sure.
OK, so I've got my second question for you guys.
But I'd rather sleep wearing handcuffs or a bike helmet.
Uh, can I like, can I ask a question to the question?
You know, the handcuffs in front of me or behind me.
They're behind you for sure.
And behind you. Yeah.
Like, come on.
Who gets arrested with them in the front?
Well, they didn't say arrested, just handcuffed.
I don't know what's it made.
Are you like kinky and you got like stuck over and you're just sleeping on a bed?
You're like, oh yeah, this is fine.
This is cool.
I mean, if you're freaking out, the bike helmet could be just as sexualized.
I don't know.
Now you're behind the back.
You're arrested, doc.
OK, yeah.
The helmet, I can't.
I mean, I've slept with my hands and
back for a little bit to go a little nappy nap in the back of the vehicle
on the way to where I was going.
You are a very patient person.
It wasn't bad, but I leaned over.
I wasn't like on my hands and, you know, it was just a regular nap at that point.
I think the bike helmet would like mess with my neck.
That's the only way I hesitate.
Like I'm so specific on how my pillow has to go behind my head
when I go to sleep at night for me to fall asleep.
But I can only imagine having this fucking thing on the top of my head
where I'm like, no, no, no, no.
Like you just do stuff.
Just got to support the pillow.
The pillow now goes to the neck.
And now, yeah, I wasn't like trying to get that right.
Just sounds frustrating.
You move. You're going to wake up with a headache.
Oh, for sure. Sure.
Going to wake up with a headache.
You know, wake up with it.
You don't wake up with a headache when you sleep in the handcuffs.
Maybe your fingers hurt a little bit.
I still teasing bike helmet. OK.
So when you guys had me on your podcast the other day,
which is great, saying I loved some of your episodes that that phenotype episode
is the first one that pops out to me as it was the most recent one I listened to.
But. It cracked me up
how far out you guys could go out there, and I appreciate you guys
coming on my show and doing this with me because we've done the exact same thing.
We get to talk cannabis. We get to have fun.
But we also get to throw some shit out there.
So I want to talk about that episode specifically.
Good. Towards the end, you guys start getting into aliens and shit like that.
Tell you what. What do you each believe?
Oh, is there life out there?
Oh, there's for sure.
I was in 1000%.
And I will talk with any.
I will tell people I'm like, right now with the technology we have,
you can't even kind of say no, right?
Like you can live in your home, hide under your rock if you want to.
There's just so much evidence out there.
And fuck, dude, like I don't know about you,
but it's not that hard to go see a fucking experience like,
you know, like I think everyone's got to like I've seen that or, you know.
Yeah. It's what about you get?
Yeah, dude, there's just absolutely.
Yeah, of course, there's shit out there.
It's like they tell us like, I don't I don't know specific numbers, but there's
hundreds of thousands of I don't know how many galaxies, right?
Like galaxies. And we're in the Milky Way, right?
Which is comprised of many different, you know, solar solar systems.
There's dude, there's no fucking way.
There's nothing out there like there would not be anything else anywhere.
But here like what? Yeah.
I'm with you a thousand percent on that one.
There's no way, man.
There's no way it's just empty for just no reason.
Right. And even like bacteria on another planet would count as an alien.
Right. Because it's just life on another planet.
Exactly.
Even at that level, like you got to believe that at some point, right?
They could be something. Right.
And then they tell us there's Earth like planets out there.
It's like, well, then.
Yeah, I saw this statistic that was like just in our like galaxy.
Hubble telescope alone has already, yeah, noticed quite a few planets
that have potentially have water, which is the basis of life.
And that's the way that I see about it is if we already perceive this
and we know that there's a few planets out there that could potentially have life
within the vision of the entire universe that we can see,
which is way beyond our reach, which is like this much. Right.
I got what they named it.
But there's a brand new telescope that's even more powerful than the Hubble was.
I've been seeing. Yeah, it's pretty cool.
But they're getting way better pictures with it.
And just imagine if we find even more of these, you exactly like you said,
if there's not like a fucking amoeba or a protozoa on that, is that not an alien?
Right. Like so at some level, like we win, like there's aliens.
And I'm safe bet that it's a safe.
You could put your money there and be all right.
Yeah. We're not talking the aliens in the movies.
No, like, no, no, no.
But then you like if you guys, if you're trying to ask me
like how I really feel, yes, like, yes, everything, everything,
everything that you've been
riddle me this.
Why have so many alien things come out like in that as of late?
And like that now it's like second nature.
Now it's coming from a different planet, superheroes, whatever.
Like it's it's just OK. It's accepted, dude.
Like I feel like that's like slow roll, like desensitization
so that when they tell you there's aliens, it doesn't melt your brain
out of your face, right?
Like you don't just go into a panic and start lighting your pants.
Do you think we've already been visited?
Oh, yeah. Yes.
Yeah, I agree.
Like, ain't no way, dude.
Bro, I just watched this like an hour long documentary on mummies
in the Grand Canyon.
And I'm convinced there's like a Sphinx or something.
They don't know there's so much.
It's like I'm not going to go into it because it's so long.
But like, I mean, look, this up.
Do a good go.
Yeah. If it was a credible source,
there's multiple different videos on this.
And the credible source is this place exists.
And there was these things found there.
What the source is, that's debatable.
But the one guy I watched was very convincing and already kind of like
was explaining things along the lines that like I'm making sense of aliens
in my head. Right.
So I'm like, oh, OK, this could be some more some that shit. Right.
And, you know, I'll give you the link after this.
But yeah, you get into it and there's got to be.
Right. Like also, like, why does the pyramid
look like the one in the Aztecs have?
Like, why does the Egypt one in the Aztec one look the same?
They've never seen a similar structure.
They're not homies. Right.
They don't kicking it.
They're not taking boats over.
They didn't consult and be like, hey, this is really good shape.
You should do that.
Coincidentally, like, yeah,
they were blessed with the secret with shit that we can't even understand
how they made it to this day.
Exactly. Like, I mean, I don't know.
Maybe mammoths.
Just Peruvian temples alone, seeing some of the structures
of how they put those blocks together, where it's almost like a puzzle piece.
It's not simple.
You know? Yeah.
Oh, hell.
But those ones are like on like peaks of like these cliffs,
because I like how crazy the rain comes down.
There's like so much erosion that there's only so many spots you can build
and everything else around.
It's a fucking valley like in a river. Right.
Like there's just rivers everywhere.
So like, yeah, to move all these rocks
with like you got canoes
and you I don't even think they had horses.
Like, I don't even think the Aztecs had like
like first like beasts of burden.
Like, I don't know.
And that one. Yeah.
Like, I can't think of like I'm very obsessed with Egyptian culture.
But I don't know very much about Peruvian. Yeah. Right.
So I'm like, did they even have animals that could pull that shit?
Like maybe an ox or like an alpaca?
But like how many alpacas would it take to move one of them fucking stones, dude?
Some beasted alpaca
ripped like look like small horses with long necks.
Whoa.
Yeah, dude, there's no way even that we're the most advanced, right?
Like that's not even close.
If everything's infinite, dude, like there's you just got to believe
that everything is everywhere.
Like technology wise, we're on a very slow roll until very recently, too.
Like something to think about.
What's the best Wi-Fi password name that you've ever seen?
Steiner had password or or like, yeah, the the Wi-Fi name. Oh,
I don't know.
Like this is kind of an old meme, but like I like the like police van ones.
Those were pretty funny when when people I think that kind of started
this whole revolution of us, I was like the antithesis of I like that one.
I saw like get your own fucking Wi-Fi.
Like I forget the name of the guy, but it was like directly pointed.
I assumed like a roommate, but.
It could have been a fucking neighbor could have been like, hey, dude,
get your own shit, like get off my shit as the apartments.
And I was like, who would be just putting them on blast
every time I try to sign into something, I see this right.
Like just everyone knows it was very good.
Doing such a disservice if you don't change your Wi-Fi name to something
incredible, I like to fuck with my neighbor.
So I named my Wi-Fi after him with his name drawn out
in an exclamation point at the end.
So every time he gets on it, it says his name.
He's like, oh, shit.
Yeah, I know.
They already know.
Hell yeah.
So you guys are doing this podcast and you're going
on.
You're talking, you're you've evolved more
into talking more about cannabis specifics a little bit.
And you guys is work in the rec industry.
I've noticed especially
you guys are monetizing now you have your own discord, correct?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
All right.
We will put that link down here in the description.
If you guys enjoy Josh and Garrett on the show, you can go check out their discord.
I'm in there, too.
You guys are awesome.
You're sharing a ton of information, not just on the podcast alone,
but you have grow threads
and you're helping people with grow problems and whatnot. Right.
You know, our best.
Yeah. Do you guys ever do like live shows or anything?
It's things we're thinking about, right?
Like to the future, we want to make sure.
I mean, so we did like a live for 20 giveaway thing for like an hour
or like 45 minutes or something.
Maybe not.
But like
my hockey came on and he's our homie, right?
He's been on a couple episodes and he's our very first ever patron.
Very first ever patron.
Like we like this guy a lot and he came and kicked it with us.
But like nobody else jumped in or asked questions.
And I was like, man, I was really expecting this to pop off.
So I think I would do a live show when we were like
maybe double digit K and followers or like, you know, like
that was just Instagram live, too.
I think that there's merit for going on to something like Twitch
and doing a show like that and potential to have a bigger audience.
That was just kind of like a thrown together thing.
It was it wasn't really super well thought out, I would say.
No, not at all.
So but there's definitely
eventually going to have some live shows, whether that be just for patrons or not.
We're still kind of toying with the idea of that
because we like to give back to the homies in there who like to support us.
So, yeah, you're following
and the people that follow you are really ultimately going to be the people
that truly support you, want to see you doing better and push you to be better.
Yeah, I'm telling you guys, it is so much better going slow
and building up your community with those people that you really vibe with,
because in the end, you're going to be a lot happier than having, you know, 10.
I've seen a million videos from creator friends of mine
that said the worst thing that ever happened to me was a video going viral.
Well, why is that?
Because if your video goes viral, everybody knows you for that one video
and they're all following you, but it's not people that are interested in you.
They just like that video.
Right. The one thing, not all of your content.
Yeah. So you get this huge influx and followers
and then they're not liking your content.
They're not sharing. They don't give a shit.
So you're ultimately doing yourself a disservice because a bunch of people
are seeing your stuff and yeah, whatever.
I like to call them nameless numbers.
You never get to know their name, but they're just a number. Exactly.
So it's really important to get those people that, you know, you're vibing with
and that you have that.
And you guys are fucking awesome.
I can already tell I'm going to get along great with you.
And we're definitely going to have to do more of these episodes.
For sure, dude. I've wanted like you're in Washington.
So I would like to have like a live like together episode.
Like we go over there, you can come over here or whatever.
But yeah, like there's no we have another microphone.
Right. We have another microphone.
We can bring all three of them. Like it don't matter. Yeah.
Right on, man.
So you guys are you monetizing on Patreon at all?
Yeah. Yeah. A little bit.
We have like what are five dollar slots.
They used to be three. Like we're not.
Yeah, we did. We did.
We had a few packs from our homie Pinoya Poi.
We did an episode with him.
He sent over a big old care package, one each for me and Josh,
and then some extras just to do whatever we wanted to do with giveaway.
Anything like that.
So we decided that we would put it on for our Patreon.
You know, as like an incentive to you get some like legendary seats for three
dollars, so it was just a no brainer and it's like
incentive.
And then for 20 rolled around and we had some
we hadn't met or we had 10 packs to give away.
We got to about seven.
So we had three left to give away.
So we did that on four 20.
And it's just kind of like a blessing the people kind of thing.
And so then we just moved our tier to
a tier to tier two, which we still have free seeds on there to
some sweet tea seeds from we got a pack of sub cool.
We got a couple of miles out of it.
We did ourselves a breeding project with those
and they have a decent amount of variability in there.
But there's still like a pretty, pretty
small gap of of different phenotypes that you can get out of there.
And there's been a couple of people who have ran them here and there as well.
If you wanted to.
I haven't grown any myself, so I just kind of gave them out to some people
and they grew them.
So but that's on our on our tier now.
And then we also produce some extra content on our Patreon
just for like the we go over very specific topics.
Yeah, it's more geared toward like a new grower, right?
Like a game, a very educational.
It's like a 20, 30 minute, like hard focus on like IPM or PM.
Yeah, sure.
You know, soil types or, you know.
And these are Patreon exclusive
podcast episodes. Awesome. Yeah.
Well, I appreciate you guys coming on and taking your time
to join me for the smoke session. It was absolutely awesome.
Thanks for having me.
Congratulations on being my very first video guest.
Dude, it feels good.
You should keep doing these for sure. This was cool.
I feel like people are going to like it.
And you're hella dope, man.
Yeah, I've had fun on both the podcasts we've been on with each other now.
And you should definitely keep doing the thing.
I will listen. Good energy, man. Absolutely.
If you guys aren't already, go follow them.
Go check out their discord.
Go check them out. You guys are on YouTube.
You're on Spotify, Stitcher, everywhere.
Pretty much. Pretty much everywhere.
Smoking with podcast, one of the two podcasts that I actually listen to.
All right. I'll catch you guys later.
