Thank you for joining us today. On the program we were lucky enough to have a
very interesting guest and one who has been a leader in the hemp movement for a
very long time. He's the news director, news editor of High Times magazine, Steve
Bloom. Steve, thank you for coming on the show today. Your voice in the movement
has been heard for a long time and High Times magazine has had a direction on
bringing information about the hemp plant and the hemp movement to the
public in any aspect that they can. At the same time you've also had to deal
with some problems over the past few years. We want to talk about all of that.
First of all, the voice that you've put together, High Times magazine, how did
that all come about? We're based in New York City. We're a fairly small operation
magazine publishing company that publishes High Times as well as a couple
of other magazines. We turn out a magazine every month like everybody
else does in our business. We're no different than most people
when it comes to that. It's our job to write headlines, to assign, to bring in
photos, to do all the legwork that it takes to get the whole magazine produced
from beginning to end. That's what we do. We're all professionals at that. And then
by the way, we're also advocates. That's what makes it unusual.
The fact that you are advocates and you're out there with your neck on the
line being willing to put your face and your time and talent out there for
people to see and to enjoy and learn from has also caused you some problems.
In New Orleans, you were subpoenaed into court and a problem came up that many
people know about but not in full detail. We've documented it in
High Times and it's been documented by the mainstream press, as we like to
sort of call it, Washington Post, Wall Street Journal, USA Today. They've looked
into our situation and what was going on there. And the situation pretty much
was through a campaign to gut the indoor growing industry. They targeted
High Times as well as the main information vehicle that has been
spreading this news about growing indoors and they wanted to snuff out the
industry and get rid of High Times at the same time if they could.
They also targeted a magazine called Sinsamea Tips. Targeting meant that
they started a grand jury. They indicted the president of a
company called the Seed Bank out of that grand jury. They wanted information from
High Times regarding a possible criminal conspiracy, connecting us
with him. And we of course are connected in a business relationship. He advertises
through High Times but they seem to think it's something bigger and vaster
than that. That we're in the midst of some sort of major clandestine
activities to distribute marijuana all over the world or something. It's just absurd.
We're a magazine that talks about it.
With High Times being established as what many people say the Bible of the
movement, you were there before anybody else was it seems like. You were
reporting and covering stories that people wouldn't pick up and cover. So
with you being out there and bringing that information home, that makes you an
easy target. How do you protect yourself now? How do you go about getting
advertisers? How do you go about raising funds to keep the magazine going?
It's not fundraising. We're a magazine. We put a magazine, people buy it.
That's one major source of revenue. High Times has good sales and we
thank all our dedicated, loyal readers. High Times is hard to get
sometimes. People always tell us that. All over the country we get
questions. Where can I get it? Where do I get it? People drive miles out of
the way to get it. It's amazing. We're spirited by those stories.
I'm told that in some parts of America it's illegal for them to have the
magazine in their store. People think it is. That's the absurdity of it. They can be told that by
somebody in some locality and they'll believe it and then we'll get these
calls. High Times, we have a business? We're constantly getting, not lately, but we have in the past.
I can't remember one real recently, but we just generally get that
kind of thing. It's just all this disinformation that gets spread around
about High Times that the DA, our arch enemy, likes to
constantly spread. They can just send it out into the media. It gets
picked up. It gets spread around in stories and wire service stories.
Before you know it, it's just sprinkled into the consciousness of people.
That so-and-so has occurred. It's not true.
When I've traveled across seas, I've been to Amsterdam and Germany.
I've been lucky enough to be a few places, courtesy of the United States
Army. I've had the chance to do that. When I was across seas, I noticed
that your magazine is there. Your magazine is in Amsterdam. Your magazine is in England.
Your magazine is in Canada. Your magazine is all across the coast.
False. Not in Canada. Illegal in Canada. It's illegal in Canada, but it can maybe through
mail-order people are getting it. You are reaching an international audience.
Therefore, you focus on the world scene. There's been some changes in the
laws regarding hemp. There's been some people in, I think, Australia who are
trying to bring hemp into a cash crop situation and to help feed the people
down there. When you focus on the world scene, what directions do you go?
Australia, I don't know very much about it other than a proposal to the government
there for a hemp project. We focus on a lot of the aspects of where hemp comes
from around the world at this point. We're unearthing it at the same time all
the activists are. We're all working at a feverish pace. The
activists and the entrepreneurs, I must add, there's money out there and
people are trying to make it as well as spread the gospel about hemp.
We're doing that as well. You're doing an excellent job.
We'll be talking more with Steve Bloom right after this. You're actively
seeking new advertisers and you're also repositioning the magazine and putting
it into a different direction. Isn't that right? The base of advertisers
that the government scared off through the harassment of Operation Green
Merchant, we've had to look elsewhere. Fortunately, as I said
before, the readers have been able to carry the load and very devoted and
keep us afloat. We need more advertising to really run a
better operation overall. We've been just looking out to
more obvious markets, the entertainment world, record companies, film
companies, book companies. They are very reticent but that's our little
test each time we make a breakthrough. I don't know if I should show
advertising but this is an advertisement from Columbia Records who said that they
would not advertise in high times. At one point we were told because of our
support of normal. Somehow or other this group persuaded them to have the
advertisement because they wanted it. Something, some wall broke down very
quickly for some strange reason and it's a good wall for us and we're hoping
there'll be more of that. Just getting out in the community, people have been
afraid to touch us. Now over the years your content of your magazine has
gotten stronger and has become more focused. I believe you've even been
responsible for breaking news, bringing new information to light that kind of
rattles the trees. Our main claim to fame in recent history is
all hemp information that we've uncovered. We did a big story on JFK
recently that will be becoming a major motion picture. Now it's coming,
the movie's coming out about JFK. I mean that kind of information we
jump on the stuff that's not told and that's where we see ourselves as
the alternative press at this point because there's so many angles. Sometimes
maybe a little too heavy on the conspiracy side. We have to sort of rule
a few out in editorial meetings but the hemp information is a
grand conspiracy theory. You really dig into it all and that's
what's I think ultimately really fascinated us that it's so deep.
You've also been attributed or your magazine has been attributed to help and to
bring the focus to the hemp movement like an umbrella where people can all
get to know each other and interact. As you continue to grow how do you plan to
incorporate that particular? We want them to start advertising, that's the
other side I guess but they know that I don't have to tell them through this
meeting but we were hoping to create a hemp industry in a sense that
will benefit us as well. I don't think that's mercenary, we
have to survive and just like the previous companies who are no longer
advertising, although there are a few, the lighting systems and stuff like
that, the growth companies so to speak, garden stores and so on,
they have come back in drips and drabs but we need to look
elsewhere and there's a whole hemp industry that's waiting to sort of really
blossom. You see it here in this building downstairs, the whole row of
people with hemp, the hemp merchants and it's pretty amazing to watch
how it is expanding and there really is money in it I think and people are
going to make money from it too and it'll be good, it'll help fund the
movement and we need more money here in this whole
movement and hopefully it'll get spread around the right ways so it's
just not a few entrepreneurs. When people think of High Times
magazine they think of it sometimes as strictly a marijuana magazine and
there's a lot more to it than that now isn't there? Well we really are the
only marijuana magazine so we'll still, I don't mind that banner,
I'm kind of changing the terminology somewhat to hemp or whatever but within
that, I mean, voice of the counterculture, we have a little slogan, I mean, and then
people ask what's the counterculture or is there a counterculture and
we think there is, we've uncovered that as well, people don't
want to know about Hemp Tour, they don't want to know there are people all over
the country, that's a counterculture, countercultural movement of people doing
that and it just does, it gets local coverage but it doesn't get any
national, it's not reported like, they'd rather report in the New York
Times a few weeks ago that there's a whole decline in marijuana use and so
on and so forth and they don't want to acknowledge it, there's a whole rise and
a movement of people who think that it should be legalized and
that doesn't indicate decline, they don't want to recognize that,
there is a counterculture of people out there, it's just not as huge as it was in
the 60s, it doesn't make as good pictures, the crowds aren't big enough
for them or something. But you're still making a change in people's lives, you've
occasionally picked up the banner in somebody's world who's been arrested or
been treated unjustly and with the power of the press, shall we say, you've
corrected an injustice, we'd like to discuss a couple of those stories when
we come back after this. We're here today with High Times editor Steve Bloom, Steve
as we said earlier, the power of the press can make a difference in personal
lives, now you on a personal example have shown by personal example how that can
be achieved and some of the things that you've done and then you've written
about it. Yeah, there was one situation where I was arrested last year in New
Jersey and it really put the drug war right in my face, you know, we get so much
information to High Times from people who are arrested all the time but it's
detached, you know, from the reality of it happening, well what happened to me, you
know, and what happened kind of in brief is I was driving at night in New Jersey
speeding and I was pulled over for speeding violation and that just wasn't
enough, you know, I was driving a car that that they presumed guilty, an
old Firebird 70s kind of car, fits some sort of profile I'm told, and I was just
coming back from a dead show so I kind of looked apart but you know so once he
sized me up, you know, I was like we're getting this guy out of the car and to
be honest I had been stopped one other time in New Jersey within that year, you
know, and so it's like oh no here we go again, same damn car, you know, whatever
and I hadn't had the car very long either, just somebody, you know, just the
way that happened, it's a great car but for some reason they, you know, they hate it
in New Jersey and so they brought me out of the car and proceeded to search
and since it happened the previous time as well I knew they were going to the
patch search and they, you know, they pat you down which really is a major
violation right there, you know, but they're allowed to do this for some
reason, you know, and first of all why are they taking me out of the car? That's the
whole point, I mean in my mind is like why did he, why did that even stop, start,
you know, as a necessity? That's the change in life from, you know, my time
when I was younger first learning how to drive and maybe having a speeding
violation and you get your ticket and that's it and you go to now, you know,
this whole hysterical response to a simple traffic violation. And even if you get out of the car
with an app being told to, they'll put a gun to your face. Well then of course it gets worse, you know, my
story is not as bad as, you know, a lot of others I'm sure you can hear but they
did, they did take me out of the car, they found a pipe in my pouch and I was
arrested for the pipe, simply for the pipe, no quantity of anything other
than, you know, what was called less than 50 grams which they tested the pipe to
find little flakes of, you know, trace and but in the meanwhile I'm arrested,
handcuffed, fingerprinted, the whole fucking thing. The whole thing? The whole thing.
I'm sorry, I'll do that again. I'm cuffed, fingerprinted, you know, arrested,
taken to the station house, the whole thing, you know, and this is all for a
pipe. So I was let out in about an hour, you know, it wasn't the worst experience
of my life I suppose. They didn't hit me, they didn't do anything, you know, they
didn't beat me, nothing happened terrible like that. It was sort of a state of
unreality when I went back to my car and I just drove home. I just got arrested.
Okay, and I'm out of my own, you know, recognizance and now I have to do the
whole court thing. So I went to a lawyer and a friend of mine who's a New Jersey
lawyer and she decided to take the case. She's a corporate lawyer who really
didn't have the time to do it and so she's a real great hero to me having,
having taken this case pro bono and did some research. We found some interesting
precedents and used it to, to overturn the search. Okay. And we lost in the first
round and we won in the second round on the, on the state level going to Trenton.
Had to get through one round because it was a small town that just no way they
were gonna slap the cops wrists and then we had to get out of that town and go to
the state house. We didn't care about that little town's concerns apparently.
We've got a cool judge, you know, you know, they got the judge suite of, of
Trenton or something, you know, who really, you know, heard our story and was
actually disappointed the state didn't really try and defend themselves very
well. They thought, oh, they'll just, you know, and they, they came with a real lame
approach to, you know, not even trying to like sell the, you know, that I was really
guilty of anything. Just, you know, he did this, I didn't do anything. I moved my
hand like this to get my wallet to my pouch and he thought I was going for a
gun. You know, it's just all this. So you know from first-hand experience. Yeah,
they'll make up anything, you know, and the Hemp Tour people have told me, you
know, well and I've learned, you know, you can't drive around anymore with, you
know, anything wrong with your car. Anything they'll pick you off, you know,
that's the police state stuff that we're dealing with that's scary and, and I
think people realize that on a day-to-day level. An average citizen now,
I think it's really seeping and they realize. I mean except for the, you know,
the hysterical people who are in favor of the drug war, who are of the few, but they
bark loudest. You know, you know, we, you know, most people still I think are
opposed to that kind of encroachment on their freedoms. I mean the average
American citizen, you know. So when it comes out of drug-related behavior, which
people think is no big deal in the first place, you know, I have a lot of average
Americans and then they get, they're getting stopped on top of it. They're
getting really incensed, you know. It's, and it's costing them money obviously as
well, you know. They're, you know, it's crimping their whole, you know, financial,
you know, life. It could be any number of things. My case is such a small little
situation, but it did teach me how you have to fight back and what it costs to
fight back. My lawyer said it would have cost so much money and I realized I
probably wouldn't be able to afford it. You know, so the whole system is not set
up very well to fight back. We've only got about a minute or two left and
there's a great number of journalists in America who like to be able to have a
forum, I'm sure as yours, and be able to voice their opinion as you do. But the
way the laws are written and the way the harassment in various communities are
presented to people, they have a tendency to withdraw from having the courage to
do that. What would you say to these journalists now dealing with the rights
that we have in America? How would you, how would you? Individually, I mean, and
they're low. Because we need journalists to stand up and speak out. Well, I guess they must have
problems from, from publication to publication depending on the editorial
slant, you know, where do they want to go, you know, with their editorial focus. Do
they, I'm amazed, you know, the amount of say hemp editorials you see all over the
country, drug legalization editorials. Again, you see from, you know, real average,
you know, the, you know, the main daily papers all across America. It's, it's not a
word that seems to be having a hard time getting spread, you know. It's, it is
fanning out all over the place. But, but I'm sure it's a tough sell some places.
You probably have to just, you know, pitch it real hard, you know, like, like
anybody else would, you know, come at him in an almost sort of a business-like
approach, you know, quality manuscript on something that says your point of view.
You know, you could probably get it in his guest editorials. I don't know, I don't
think it's that hard. I mean, we are somewhat of an island right now in, in,
in the world of publishing, you know. We're doing something that nobody quite
is doing and, you know, sometimes that's, that excites us and other times we'd
rather, we'd rather have a few more friends, you know, like, you understand
what we're doing, you know. We're really not bad guys. I don't know why the
publishing industry a lot of times doesn't lend more support towards what
we do. You know, they just, we're like the stepchild or something and they want to
just like, they want to watch from afar, you know, to see how we are. We're like
the guinea pigs, you know, in this First Amendment experiment or something. It's
like, let them deal with it. Well, we are dealing with it. We have a good lawyer
and we have the resources apparently to, to get as far as we've gone. They haven't
sunk us, you know. They would like to have and they haven't and, and everybody
thinks, well, why don't they just come up and bust us all or something, you know.
It's not that easy. They got nothing on us. It's not that easy. What are you doing in speech?
We got nothing on us. You know, they were taking pictures of us the other day at the Washington.
I'd like to say on behalf of the members of the Hemp Movement, and I have spoken
to many of them, they're very appreciated for what you are doing and the fight
that you are, you're making possible and the way you're raising their voices. It's
been an honor to have you on our program. I'd like to have you back again sometime.
Okay, that sounds great. I want to thank everybody who is, those devoted followers
of High Times. I mean, they're amazing. More after this.
