One of those is a hemp creep ball. So what you have here is the inner core portion of the stock,
which is similar to some of what we have here in this bag, the little woody portions that you see
in here. And then we mix this with a lime binder and water and this becomes a non-structural
component of the wall insulation. Or you can compress them into blocks to have structural
components of the wall. It's breathable, resistant to mold, resistant to fire, and you can learn more
about that at hemp-technologies.com. And so that's carbon negative. This is a carbon negative
is what the tests have shown for our colleagues in the UK. Now this is one of the reasons why we
want to be cultivating industrial hemp in this country, is it so that we can start decorticating
those stocks to create that herd that will need to go into this building application. And not only
can you use this herd in a hemp creep, but you can also use it in a hemp block. So here's a little
bitty piece of a pressed board. And this also is using the hemp herd and then press. This is made
in Canada. Nice just a little bitty press block there. Keep all this organized. I'll try to put
it back in the container. And then right here we have hemp insulation. So this is a pink insulation
replacement and you can get this in various sizes. And of course it's cut to be 15 or 16 inches
depending on what you need. It can come with or without a fire retardant depending on your needs
and building codes. So here we have, I think these are both made in like a needle punch machine.
It's a non-woven matting. This is a very thin piece so you could use this as what is essentially
made into this briefcase right here. It's this type of matting that is then molded and infused. You
could also use this as something to go underneath countertops or as perhaps soil retention. And last
but not least what we have here is the bast fiber on the inside. So this is the outside of the stock
and these are the long bast fibers that you would use to make those non-woven mattings and to make
the hemp insulation. So I said last but there's one more item here. You have hemp bast fiber.
Here's the hemp herb fiber. You want to tell our audience the difference between the two? Yeah so this is the
little woody core on the inside. This is the hemp herd. You can see this in all cannabis plants. They
all have the long bast fiber on the outside and that bast fiber on the outside is what our colleagues
like in China are using to make the amazing textiles such as what I have on right now. This is
hemporium from South Africa. And then the inner core here is the woody portion but you could also
use this in type of applications such as gasification to create heat in greenhouses and
in homes. So this is a very good or animal bedding. Amazing for animal bedding. We just cleaned out our
chicken coop and we had the top part with straw and underneath we had the hemp herd. And so
surprising in Canada at our minus 30 weather how the hemp herd was still really light and fluffy
and it was able to remove the straw quite quickly. Well thank you.
