Aren't we in a pickle, really, to limit to 0.3?
And doesn't the Department of Health
need to be pushing the feds to kind of mellow out and allow
a broader definition?
So the 0.3% of THC definition is actually not in federal law.
In federal law, they don't define industrial hemp
from cannabis, as we've talked about.
However, it is in our state statute.
So as the Department of Ag, it would
have to be a legislative action, not an agency action.
I believe that the 0.3% and you guys
can probably talk about this better than I can.
But I believe that that's kind of an industry
standard for industrial hemp because it cannot be construed
as having any value of the THC to use for drug purposes
or use as a drug.
So that's why I think it can't be.
My question is essentially that of political one, isn't it?
Well, yeah.
So just a little quick history.
The standard was developed in Europe and then in Canada.
And so it's sort of been a de facto international standard.
We didn't come up with that as unique.
We kind of said, OK, this is what's working.
And the Canadians and Europeans have
been able to develop a hemp industry around that standard.
Now, does it limit you somewhat?
Yeah, it might.
Is there a variety of hemp that has half a percent THC?
That might be better.
Yeah, it might be.
And that might be something we need
to take a look at down the line.
Will we ever see a situation where farmers are growing hemp
at 5% or 10% THC?
I seriously doubt it because you're
talking about psychoactive varieties that somebody
could pull out of the field and smoke.
So I think that you have to make a distinction there
Generally, internationally, it's recognized as above 1%.
You get into varieties that then have psychoactive potential
when you're talking about the THC.
But I wouldn't disagree with you that it
might be nice to have a little bit higher
or have the flexibility to be able to say, hey,
maybe a little higher than 3 tenths.
But it is kind of what it is.
There's a number of crops that have other levels.
So something like canola has to be below 2% uricic acid.
So it's not versus industrial rapeseeds.
So it's not uncommon to have these kind of biological limits.
And there are seed certification systems,
both in Europe, Canada, here in the US,
that once you've got varieties that
are known to have these low levels,
to maintain those is not a problem.
You can do cross-breeding among the varieties that
are low in the THC levels.
And you should be able, there may
be the occasional variety that would be useful
or may have some useful characteristic
through traditional plant breeding.
You can oftentimes take something like that,
breed it into your low lines, and breed something
that has the new characteristic using standard breeding
techniques.
When I lived in northern Illinois before I moved here,
there was still acreage.
And some of it on State Parkland,
where a lot of hemp fields that was left over
from World War II.
Do we not have any research data on growing hemp
from those years that might help us
as we look at this new era of gloriousness?
To answer your second question first,
we do actually, the picture that Harold
showed of the 15-foot-tall hemp plants in Arlington,
that was actually a USDA researcher named
Lester Dewey who grew hemp in Arlington Farms, which
is now where the Pentagon is located in Arlington, Virginia.
And we've actually got his diaries.
He has published a lot of research on it.
So we have a lot of historical stuff.
And I noticed that Rick has a great book here too,
by Chris Conrad, called Hemp, Lifeline, the Future.
There's some other books out there.
It's not super technical on the growing side,
but there is a lot of historical information
out there on hemp farming.
There are bulletins.
There were the USDA and other states
did research bulletins back in the 40s.
So that kind of information is available.
On Fork, there was a USDA Ag Research Service reading
program in Wisconsin.
Had been here in Oregon, down in Corvallis and Albany.
And they pulled it out in the late 1930s
and moved it to Wisconsin because conditions
were better there.
Unfortunately, as we went through this whole craze
in the 40s and 50s, they dumped all the germplasm.
So historically, where material was
put into a national germplasm repository,
there's none of that present these days.
But there are international seed sources.
Has any thought been given through your organization
as a viable form of sequestering carbon?
Yeah, so the carbon sequestration is definitely,
I mean, that's a fact.
And the building with Hemp Herd, where they're basically
locking it into, mixing it with lime,
and then that actually sequesters carbon.
And research they did over in the UK on that
shows that there's actually more carbon captured
in the construction process than what's normally released.
So it's a carbon negative construction process.
So that's pretty incredible.
And actually, I think that's going
to be a huge market for hemp once we get it grown here.
It doesn't make any sense to import.
Herd is so light and bulky.
It's just, import that from overseas or whatever,
it makes no sense.
But once you're growing it here, you can build homes.
Right here, they're extremely good thermal properties.
There's a number of other benefits.
Because it's using lime, the mold,
you don't have any problems with mold.
I don't know if that's a big issue here in Oregon.
But I think with your wetter climate,
that it might be a big significant thing.
So there's some real advantages there.
And as far as the fuel goes, I just
think that the jury's still out.
I mean, there's two ways you can get fuel from hemp
that I know of anyways.
Or maybe there's more.
So I'm not an expert.
I don't claim to be an expert on fuel.
But I know the hemp seed, I think,
is too high value to be realistic as a mainstream fuel
source.
Somebody's going to do it on their farm or something.
But then the biomass conversion, there's
been some research on that.
But that still isn't fully commercialized,
except with maybe sugarcane in Brazil or something.
So they haven't gotten there yet.
But there's definitely potential.
Seed is a part of the statute in Oregon.
And it directs the Department of Agriculture
to write rules about the handling of seed,
as well as the growing and selling of seed.
So we have regulations already in Oregon, actually,
for seed dealers.
Any agricultural or vegetable seed producer or dealer
has to be licensed by the State Department of Agriculture.
And that will fall under a similar licensing process.
So that will be something that will come out
in the rules as we develop them.
The third question, I'm sorry, was about potential
cross-contamination.
And we have OSU sitting on our panel.
And we'll hope that they can give us some guidance there.
Because the statute sets the limit at 0.3%,
that's one of the things that I mentioned
we'll have to talk about, what are the tolerances
and how we will determine that.
And we don't know.
I don't think I've seen some research or heard
that the cross-contamination, having two fields next
to each other, could actually damage potentially both.
Not only the THC level that you might be shooting for
for medical purposes, but also keeping the other one
under 0.3.
But I'm not a researcher and don't know that.
So it will certainly be something
that we'll have to look into.
Right now, the statute doesn't direct us
to have controlled areas.
We'll have to work through that.
That gets into quite a bit of different other laws
in terms of right to farm and that kind of stuff.
We do have the Farm Bureau sitting on our Rules Advisory
Committee.
They're usually involved in those right to farm issues.
And so hopefully they can advise us as well on that issue.
It's typically done in a situation like this
is there are generations of seed that are produced.
So you start with something called breeder seed
or foundation seed.
And there would be very specific isolation requirements
for where that seed could be grown.
And then as you go through the generations,
those tend to ease up a bit.
But oftentimes, the commercial crop
is not harvested for subsequent seed use.
And so you could have what would be called
foundation registered seed.
The certified seed would be sold, commercially produced.
So even there, if there were some small level
of contamination, it's not gonna carry
into the next generation of the crop.
But we'd have to figure out what are the isolation distances
that you need to have.
And then it would be up to those people
to work with their neighbors to make sure
if they're producing early generation seed
if they didn't have medical marijuana in those areas
to try to keep the THC under control.
