So Noel, we've had two years ago Oregonians passed a measure that was Measure 91 that made recreational marijuana legal in Oregon.
Since then we've had two legislative sessions which substantially changed big portions of the bill.
So the Oregon Liquor Control Commission was tasked originally with Measure 91 to regulate marijuana in Oregon and we've had some major shifts and changes.
I think we're on target to meet what our goals were as we address the legislature with those as changes were made.
Currently there are about 407 licenses that have been granted in Oregon.
About 50 of those licensees have not yet paid here in the state of Oregon so they can be licensed as soon as they pay.
Of those 357 licenses then that remain, about 50 of those are retailers.
There's about a half dozen of those that are processors and then there's four laboratories that have been licensed in the state of Oregon.
And then the remainder of those are growers.
So you can see we've got a big front end market going on and that's how we've tried at OLCC to try and prioritize things as they move through the system.
Because marijuana that's going to be sold in the recreational stores had to first be grown and then be processed or dried or whatever form it's going to take and then be put out to retail.
So we're certainly on target on the licensing parts.
There's certainly been some things bouncing around and you've written about and others have written about and there's been articles.
Can you recap those a little bit for us? What are some of the issues that have come up?
One of the big issues that we're hearing about really is the testing that we're hearing about.
Oregon put a pretty rigorous testing program in place.
I would say that there is a lot of the, there is on the flower side of marijuana, I don't think that there has been a large issue related to testing.
I think most of that product has been able to move to market.
I think on the processing side of marijuana, the oils and the other things, there are substantial costs that I don't think some of the people were prepared for.
The testing methods and the amount that had to be tested were not anticipated.
The Oregon Electrical Control Commission doesn't control what those tests have to be.
Actually the Oregon Health Authority is the one who controls what those are.
But they went out to third party groups to get that testing regimen and it's tested, my understanding is that it's tested just like other food and agricultural products that move through the system.
But it's expensive and we're trying to deal with that capacity.
And OLCC, when the market came to us, we convened with OHA and the Governor's office and tried to meter out some of the capacity that exists in the pesticide testing system.
We're trying to get our arms around it, but when you go from a system that didn't have a lot of testing really that was regimented testing,
now, and you saw your first reports I think this week related to some product failing on the Oregon Health Authority side that actually got out to patients,
it's problematic and so it's slowing down that process to some degree.
But I think we're all trying to be responsible about it.
We're convening and talking to the market and trying to be flexible but at the same time protect public safety.
