Thanks you guys. I am so happy to be here. I can't even tell you as I say every year
This is my activist anniversary. So thanks for coming to my party y'all. I'm so happy you're here
You know
I was one of the founders of Oregon normal and then in
2013 I was approached by a man named Mickey Martin who was a an activist in California
And if you know him you either loved him or you hated him
Because he was a man of very strong opinions
But he also became my mentor and my friend and my brother
Through our work together with parents for pot and today since we're memorializing the people that we've lost
I'd like to add him to the list because we lost him last June
Sadly, he was the driving force behind parents for pot and he and now
That he's gone. I feel
Compelled to take up the torch that he left and carry on the work for parents for pot one of the
Thanks, baby. One of the things that he used to say was that he likes weed and he's a good person
I think that's true for everyone here
Even if you don't consume cannabis you can still like weed and you're still can be a good person
The goal of parents for pot is to remove the stigma of cannabis use for parents and families
So that we can participate in the world like everyone else
I hear stories from people every day who are good people who are taxpaying people who have lost their bank accounts
Because the bank found out that their money came from cannabis and they closed their personal bank accounts
I hear from people who are working hard making a lot of money trying to buy houses
Who can't get a loan because every time they get to that step where they find out that they work in the cannabis industry
They're denied these this poor family has an empty house brand new built waiting for them
They're good people who like weed
I hear from parents whose children are being taken away from them even now
Even in Oregon Russ Belleville just told me a story today that
warmed my heart and I'm so grateful for that
I heard a story today that warmed my heart because the woman won her children back
Because why? She was a good person who liked weed
So we still have a lot of work to do
There is so much stigma around cannabis use that when I first started speaking at these events back in 2001
It was revolutionary for me to call myself a proud stoner
I think that all of us here can honestly openly say that we are all proud stoners
We function in this world. We pay our taxes. We do what we need to do
And we should just be left alone for that. We all know that
Weed is much less harmful than any other legal substance that adults are allowed to consume probably safer than even sex
So
What is the big deal? And yet we're treated we're marginalized we're treated like criminals
Parents are being
Parents are being sent to
Child protective services by their own children's doctors for recommending cannabis
Instead of the poison that the pharmaceutical company wants to feed them
What is wrong with this?
People are going to cannabis as the last resort for their health issues when if they had used it as their first resort
Their health would probably be much better. Why is that? Because we are
stigmatized because we are
Marginalized for our choice of recreation and our choice of medicine
Parents for pot works hard to bring this to an end and we need your help to do it, too
The way all you have to do is do like I do stand up be proud
I work every day. I go to work every day. We doesn't keep me stuck to my couch. I'm totally functioning. I'm high right now
so
I say this
And I want you to say it with me. I like weed and i'm a good person
I want everyone here to say it so that mickey martin can hear it in heaven join me now
I like weed and i'm a good person
What I can't hear you I can't hear you people way back there. I like weed and i'm a good person
Right one more for the cheap seats I like weed and i'm a good person
My name is anna diaz. I'm a proud stoner and founder of parents for pot
join me and let's end the stigma of cannabis use for adults because
Cannabis may be legal, but we are not free. Thank you
