You know, the other day I was on a TV program when the moderator came on.
He looked into the camera and said,
while other candidates for governor are running on better schools and more roads,
Gatewood Gap was running on legalizing marijuana.
And I said, hold it right there, Bob.
Let's get something straight.
Just like these other candidates, I envision better schools,
and I envision more roads,
and I envision delivery of health care to the rural areas,
and feeding our hungry and housing our homeless.
The only difference between me and these other candidates
is that I figured out a way to pay for it
without putting it on the shoulders of the already overflowing.
The first day in office, I'm going to ground every helicopter the state of Kentucky owns.
There's not going to be helicopters hovering over the fields and gardens of the people of the state of Kentucky.
This is America, not Afghanistan, and we're not an occupied territory,
and I'm not going to treat somebody like that.
It is obscene if we have 66 out of Kentucky's 120 counties
that can't even afford to educate their own children,
and yet the Kentucky public is sending out hundreds of millions of dollars,
and the American public is sending out billions of dollars in tax-free income
to the international criminal syndicates in South America and Mexico
for a plant my granddaddy used to grow by the thousands of acres,
and I'm going to redirect that money out of the hands of these international criminal syndicates,
and I'm going to put them into the capital tax coffers of Frankfurt
so I can lift the people of Kentucky out of poverty and out of the misery
and out of these last place standards that they have.
And I'm going to redefine the role of government in policing private behavior in the state of Kentucky.
We live in a police state.
You can leave here and go out and get in your car,
and they can set up a random roadblock in front of you,
make you get out of your car, bring a dog up to sniff you, your car, and all its belongings,
take blood out of your arm, make you pee in a bottle, and stick their hands where the sun don't shine.
That's a police state. That's a police state on the house.
Let's ride these horses down the trail, and they drop the log in front of them and say,
John, get off that horse. We're going to take blood out of your arm,
you've got to pee in this bucket, we're going to stick our fingers up your butt.
I think John Wayne would say, I'm afraid not, Pilgrim.
This is where I draw my line in the sand, and this is where we're drawing the line in the sand in the state of Kentucky.
We're going to turn privacy and individual dignity and freedom
into each and every individual in the state of Kentucky,
and get the police out of the business of promoting morality,
and put them back in the business of promoting law and order in the state of Kentucky.
