Happy Global Cannabis March!
I am so happy to be one of the newest board members for Portland Normal in the
legislative director capacity. I'm able to work with Lee Berger as the
legislative committee director as well as all the other board members to try to
impact the Oregon cannabis laws on behalf of the consumer. So this last
session I lobbied on behalf of Portland Normal and on behalf of all of us to
try to get reasonable regulations met instead of regulations that we might not
be so happy with. And while the OLCC is very proud of themselves
recently for issuing eight grow licenses, we've had those applications since
January. So it's really important that we move forward in a more timely manner
than that when people have plants in the ground and ready to go in the ground
and they're not covered legally even though they very much should be. We
worked really hard on trying to get the lounges to stay open and because of the
Oregon Clean Air Act these weren't deemed an emergency and so we weren't
allowed to get them passed in this very short amount of time. However we did get
expungement for criminal records more thoroughly than was previously there and
we got other penalties reduced so that we could have a little bit more freedom
in the things that we do. This year we're going to be doing a consumer Bill of
Rights where we will be tackling the issues of the Oregon Clean Air Act and
the issues of pre-employment drug screening and your landlord being able
to discriminate against you because you consume cannabis. And I'm really excited
to get moving forward on these things because we need to make sure that our
rights are just as equal as those that might be choosing alcohol as their
substance of choice even though ours is far safer. I'd also like to say that if
people could please join us at the Rules Advisory Committee meetings for the
Oregon Health Authority and the OLCC. This is where the rules are actually
drafted from the legislation and the bulk of the discussion happens for us to
be able to make these regulations and without a lot of input from our
community we are seeing the results of their not hearing from us. We need more
input at these meetings you can email it but when they release a regulation
that is ridiculous you have to use your voices you have to tell them that what
they're doing is ridiculous and it can't be as simple as we're defending our OMMP.
You have to read what they wrote and tell them what is wrong with it and
without that feedback we're getting this crap legislation rules that nobody can
handle or deal with or wants to because they're not hearing from enough of us
and even when they do hear from us sometimes they just choose to do what
they want instead which is why patients can't get their extracts right now in
bulk. The bulk of the reason is because we were not heard so we need to make
sure that we're defending ourselves and our patients who are us because if we
don't we're seeing what happens and it's their choice that they already made they
already decided that they were going to redo the OMMP so if we don't give them
all of our input all of the time they're going to do that without us and that's a
scary thought they have to hear what your doses are the OHA limiting a
patient's dose is complete bullshit and it should have never happened and when
we tried to get an amendment to say that the OHA couldn't limit a patient's dose
it was pretty much decided that they had that power because the county health
authorities wanted to make sure that we regulated it for children in case they
got inside of it instead of getting into regulated for adults who consume it
responsibly and keep it out of the hands of their children. That is not acceptable
it's not too late we're moving into a long session in January it's going to be
six months long and we're going to see copious amounts of bullshit that they're
going to try to pass and it's going to be up to each and every one of us to
stand up for that we have to defend our programs and we have to make sure that
while they're rolling out new programs that it's done responsibly the more
voices that they hear doing that the better and there's no way that any of us
can let the OMMP fall to the wayside during this we already saw what can
happen so please pay attention to the regulations go on the OMMP website look
at their calendars look at their news releases go on the OLCC website skip out
on you know 20 minutes of Facebook and go read these websites and these
regulations and start to really understand how you can give your input
on what you think because we all think very similarly on most of these issues
the more of that united voice that they hear the better we're going to have it
so please join us in defending these things because we need to all be united
with love and understanding and acceptance but also with the strong
desire to defend our plant. Much love guys!
