We all have to really have each other's backs now,
because it's going to accelerate.
That's what's going on right now.
So be a part of that acceleration.
And let's set our political prisoners free in this country.
There's a bunch of people in jail. Move me up.
There's a lot of people that need to be free.
So this song goes out to them.
I'm going to be free
Leonard felt the doubt around me
Those native creators, lands
Those satan-honed, two-naked men
With the way of coming preservation
Built them to complete starvation
Hey-oh, hey-oh, hey-oh, hey-oh
Hey-oh, hey-oh, hey-oh, hey-oh
Look what's going on down in Mexico
The mighty geographers can't take no more
So many years of no disrespect
In this unharmony
It's time for human rights
And set them people free
Hey-oh, hey-oh, hey-oh, hey-oh
Hey-oh, hey-oh, hey-oh, hey-oh
Daddy-lo, tear down the border wall
Leonard Punter, he's still in Prisbane
When we're going to make that final decision
They set him up at plain to see
Time to set him free
Free land down here
We feed the calabash, we get free ideas and ideas of our communities
There's a lot of freedom fighters out there
And we're fighting for human lives to make this world a beautiful place
And I thank my brother here, Jim, for that
We go back a long ways and we've always fought for human rights
We believe in this medicine, this marijuana is a great medicine
And it heals all
And there's only one thing that we ask for
And it's real easy to do
And it's called love
Love one another, honor mother earth
Respect water, because without water there's no life
I do all my relations here, I thank you again
It's a beautiful day, it's a beautiful weather
It's a beautiful people here, all the people that work so hard
Especially my brother, Vivian here, he does so great, he works so hard
Like he said, he picks up everything
Like he said, he picks up every piece of paper, every cigarette butt
If you people could help pick up a little bit of garbage before you leave
It really helps the people
I do it once again, like I said, once again, for all my relations, I love you
Happy Inventory!
Happy Inventory!
