One of the things, folks, you got to remember that now as we're going towards legalization,
we need to have rights.
You know, you can't just accept any medicine that's out there, any marijuana that's out
there.
You know, NORML, as you hear locally, Oregon NORML, they're your consumer's rights organization.
You know, they're the ones that are going to help you make sure that your medicine,
your recreational substance, your religious substance is yours.
So remember that, folks.
Support Oregon NORML, support National NORML, because they're the consumer movement for
you.
You know, it's like we need a consumer movement now that we're going to be legalized soon
here in Oregon, 2014.
So we really need to stay close to that and watch the medicine that we have.
And folks, yes, you know, we got to remember, you know, it's going to be legalized soon,
but it's not yet.
So you got to be, you know, careful out there, right?
Everybody knows how to be careful, right?
You got to be really smart about what you're doing out there.
You know, it's one of the few things that we have to worry about if you're a cardholder
is you know, not in the public.
Because we'd all love right here to smoke a giant bowl right now.
I see Russ, he's looking mighty thirsty for a bowl, but right now Russ is going to smoke
a bowl because he knows that's against the law.
Russ is smart.
Thank you, Russ.
Russ is afraid of jail.
Yes, Russ is afraid of jail.
I'm afraid of jail.
We should all be afraid of jail, right?
We don't want to go there.
It's not for marijuana activists.
They don't allow us.
You know, you can't use your medicine in jail.
So why would you want to go to jail?
So in order to stay out of jail, folks, we've got, you know, we've got the four saints to
help keep you out of jail.
Once you know, so I'm going to say these and I want everybody here to say them after me.
So when an officer approaches you, whether you're in your car, on your bicycle, on foot,
anywhere officer approaches you, say, am I free to go, officer?
Am I free to go, officer?
Oh, wait a minute.
We need it louder than that because the officer didn't hear you.
Am I free to go, officer?
Am I free to go, officer?
All right.
And then the next one is, this is, this is important because they'll try and trick you.
You want to say, I do not consent to any searches.
I do not consent to any searches.
Okay.
And then, you know, you want to make sure you're able to contact one of these, uh, well,
somebody like myself here.
So I wish to speak to an attorney.
I wish to speak to an attorney.
Yes.
And remember, and then the other thing now, our Supreme Court, U.S. Supreme Court, in
their wisdom, has said that you must speak to remain silent.
It doesn't make sense, but who's, you know, these are just some old folks in Washington,
D.C.
So number four is I wish to remain silent.
I wish to remain silent.
But not right now, folks.
Remember that.
So, all right.
And, um, I really want to thank everybody for coming out.
And remember, you got to practice these sayings every day.
Brushing your teeth when you're riding a max, riding a bus, mumbling to yourself.
Look like one of those people on the bus you don't want to sit next to.
Right?
So am I free to go, officer?
Am I free to go, officer?
I do not consent to any searches.
I wish to speak to my attorney.
And I wish to remain silent.
All right, thanks, folks.
