and the city is different because of it. Seattle's become the Amsterdam of the USA.
And that's because of everybody here working together to pull off this amazing event.
I came into the park on Thursday, there must have been 400 volunteers, 400 people working for free,
putting up the stage, putting up the fences, putting up the signs, bringing in the trash containers.
There's going to be 400 people here Monday, cleaning up the cigarette butts and little stuff that we miss
picking up ourselves on Sunday. So, I mean, this is an amazing change that we've brought about.
I'm here to speak about a group called Drug Sense. Look us up, drugsense.org.
We are a group of activists that work online. We have websites for drug policy for groups around the world
that we host on our server. We have listservs for communications and all the different state drug policy forums.
I don't even know if F.E.S.T. has its own web services, but so many groups use us.
There's probably 100 of our clients here today. So I want you to look up drugsense.org.
We have an online activism group that puts together now 150,000 articles about drug policy
where we can chart the difference in the reporting of drug policy from now, you know, from 10 years ago till now.
We can show you how the media has changed in its coverage, how even debate about drug policy 10 years ago
was taboo in the media, and now everybody's talking about it. Newspapers across the country are coming out
for major changes in drug policy, and we have the web commission that everybody needs to push for
that's going to take a comprehensive look at criminal policy. So everybody, we're having an effect.
We need to get online, and we need to get our act together. We need to come together at HempFest and volunteer
and get our act together, both locally and online. We're having an effect, and I love the freedom that that is bringing us.
We need to keep it, and we need to keep pushing. Thank you everybody. Thank you Seattle.
Love you Donnie. Don Wirtschafter, one of the founders of the industrial hemp movement, I'll have you know.
