Hi everybody, and I mean H-I-G-H, hi.
What a spectacular day here in Potland, Oregon.
Thank you, Mother Nature.
Bear with me a little, my PTSD's kicking a little hard
right now, so just bear with me, you guys.
So, do we have to say to our state again,
what's wrong with all these changes you keep making
that continue to happen and have happened
to our cannabis medical program in the last year or so?
Always somebody or something has tried to change us.
Leave our medicine alone.
That seems to be the words that have been said
or used by most.
How many times have you said it?
Or heard someone else say it?
Gee, do you think anybody's listening?
I know that we can hear ourselves saying it.
Who's listening?
Come on, state of Oregon.
Our state had one of the best
medical cannabis programs to me.
I am a multi-state medical cannabis card holder.
Now that medical has paved the way for recreational,
recreational will ultimately take over
and be servicing our OMMP in the end.
This sounds crazy to me.
Disappointed?
Disappointed?
Is one of the strongest words that this Oregonian can say.
I, like a lot of you, have had to make constant change
in the past few years.
Social clubs closing because of the Clean Air Act.
My markets closed because they couldn't be regulated
by the state.
My friends died because it was more important
for them to be treated with pharmaceuticals
than the choice of cannabis.
What else must we give up?
Well, I'm not willing to give up my medical cannabis card.
And if they end this program,
they will be literally ripping the card out of my hand.
Our hands, my friends' hands, my family's hands.
Seems like paying it forward or giving back,
Oregon can be the ultimate reward.
In closing, I would love to take this time
as Portland Hempstock's hospitality manager
to invite you all to Hempstock this year
down at Waterfront Park, September 24th and 25th.
I hope to see you all there.
I wanna say in closing also
that these people are extremely missed.
Okay, John Walsh, John Trudell,
Craig Pryor, Jack Hare, and many more.
And I wanna thank them again for all their efforts
that they put into these programs.
I'm ready to march with my P4P group,
and I hope you are too.
Come check out our booth in the back.
Thank you, and show great stonerism.
