I am a travel writer and for me, Hai is a place. It's a beautiful place. It's a place
where my speakers sound better. It's a place where suddenly I'm a good cook,
where conversations slither around like stray cats and then once in a while I
like to go there and a lot of people do. Now there are cases when our government
can say we can't go someplace but if they say we can't go there, there better
be a good reason and as far as I'm concerned there's no good reason for our
government to tell us we cannot go to that beautiful place. Today 80,000
Americans are in jail because they wanted to go to that place called Hai. I
believe that the responsible adult recreational use of marijuana is a civil
liberty. Now I'm not promoting marijuana. It's a drug. It's not healthy. It can be
abused. It can be addictive. It's certainly not for kids and if you're
caught driving intoxicated by anything as far as I'm concerned they should
throw the book at you but that doesn't deny the basic principle that enjoying
marijuana is a civil liberty. Now our government is waging a war, a long, losing,
expensive, demoralizing war against marijuana based on fears and lies. It's
demoralizing our police force. It's eroding and corroding necessary
credibility among parents and teachers to teach their children how to get
through the threats of hard drug abuse in their young years. It's wasting
billions of dollars and it's messing up literally hundreds of thousands of lives.
800,000 Americans were arrested last year for marijuana. They're not rich
white guys. They're poor people and people of color and people who cannot go
through life with that burden. This is a scourge on our society and it's time
that we have a new approach. Now I inject a European perspective to this and in
Europe a joint is about as exciting as a can of beer. Europe has its drug abuse
problems. We have our drug abuse problems but in Europe they measure the
effectiveness of their drug policies not by how many people do you lock up but by
a concept called harm reduction. How do you minimize harm that this drug causes
to a society and they found that if you take the crime out of the equation, take
the violence, take the money out of the equation, then it becomes a health
concern and an education challenge. My friends in Europe constantly remind me
that a society has to make a choice. Tolerate alternative lifestyles or build
more prisons. Here in the United States we've decided to opt for the latter and
my friends in Europe always follow up that comment by reminding me that we
here in the United States lock up more people than anybody else in the world.
We lock up eight times as many people per capita as the Europeans do. Either we are
inherently more criminal or there's something messed up about our laws. Now
our drug policy is based on fear and misinformation. For how long has our
government been spending money on reefer madness propaganda? Consequently there's
a whole bunch of people that are really afraid. There's a lot of people that
think there's a whole reservoir of people that just wish they could
ruin their lives if only it was legal. Well in Europe they've learned that
there is not that reservoir of people that would use marijuana if only it was
legal. In Portugal they decriminalized the consumption of all drugs ten years
ago. They just did a review of that policy and you know they like it. Use does
not go up, the crime is out, it becomes a little more boring and life goes on.
There's a lot of Americans that are also afraid of this gateway drug notion. One
talk of marijuana and you're on the way to heroin addiction. Well Europe has
learned it's not the case. In the Netherlands it's been 25 years since they
arrested somebody for smoking marijuana and what they found is that there's not
an increase in hard drug use. Their drug taking population is staying the same in
numbers and it's getting older in demographics because people want to
experiment with drugs which is something that kids do. They do it in their 20s and
then they get over it and they get back on with other kind of things that are
exciting to them and it's just a way of life in Europe. The only thing gateway
about marijuana is its illegality because when it's illegal people have to
buy it from criminals in the street who have a vested interest in getting you
hooked on something that's more addictive and more profitable. We need to
take a hard look at our drug laws and it's so exciting to have a celebration
like this. Hemfest is a great celebration of cannabis culture but I'll tell you if
we want to legalize this we got to mobilize. We got to get serious. We got to
stop preaching to the choir and take it out to the suburbs where people are
afraid of this stuff. We have hard-working advocacy groups. I'm a
board member of NORML. I've been that for 10 years. These groups are fighting a
dogged and difficult campaign on each of our behalf. They're not charities, they're
services and they're doing our work for us and you know there's some initiatives
going on. I am so proud to be a co-sponsor of initiative I-502. Now I
know that discourages and disappoints a lot of idealists that want marijuana to
be completely free and legal but that's not going to pass in the voting booth.
That would pass here but it's not going to pass out there. We need something
pragmatic as a first step. Please learn about this. This is a smart law. This is
a law that has elected officials behind it. This is a law that's not scary. It
deals head-on with the reasons Prop 19 failed and if we can stay together we
can pass this thing. I-502 has a booth 100 yards right over there. You'll see it. I'm
over there later on today. We'd love to get volunteers to get out there and get
signatures. We got to get 240,000 signatures to get this thing on the
ballot and trust me once it's on the ballot it will pass. Most people out
there want to know about driving problems and they want to know about how
you're going to retail and all these boring facts. This is our first step
towards legalizing marijuana. It's going to happen in Washington and then you can
tell your grandchildren you helped change those laws. That's exciting.
Now we're at a crossroads in our society. Think about the 1930s when courageous
people were stepping up about the laws against alcohol and saying you know this
law is causing more problems than it's helping and Marilyn LaGuardia said back
in the 30s if you got a law in the book that you don't intend to enforce
consistently across the board the very existence of that law erodes respect
for law enforcement in general. Today we've got a law in the books that is
eroding respect for law enforcement. They got no intention of enforcing it. If they
locked us all up tomorrow would be one less interesting less creative place to
buy us to call home wouldn't it? I want you to know that I'm a hard-working
kid-raising church-going tax-paying citizen of the United States and if I work all
day and want to go home and smoke a joint that's my civil liberty. If you agree with that, get with us.
Make a difference. We've got a window with I-502. Alright and then we can get
beyond hard on drugs and soft on drugs and as a society we can be smart on
drugs. Alright thank you very much. Happy travels even if you're just
staying home.
