So you can imagine, I was there, the Attorney General,
Ferguson was there with the keynote speaker
to open up the conference, and everybody
had anxiety the next day.
So I took a few minutes to speak to the group and said,
well, I know we're frustrated and disappointed,
but not shocked.
So I think it could have been a lot worse.
They could have not only rescinded the cold memorandum,
but they could have replaced it and told the US states
to move forward in closing down the businesses.
So to be totally honest with you,
not sure why it took a whole year to rescind a memo,
but we've been waiting for the Obama administration,
I'm sorry, for the Trump administration
to give us some guidance around that.
So I basically say stay calm.
The Attorney General and our governor
and Senate State stating that they would defend.
From my point of view, we continue to use the government.
I think it's important to understand
Sessions said he gives more authority and power
to the states, Mr. Attorney, supporting the state
and their rollout.
Well, to be honest with you, for years,
we just haven't had much of a communication
because we've used the cold memo.
So really, I think like our states and others,
we're reaching out to our acting US attorneys
because we don't have appointees of the new administration
right now to sit down with them and walk through the story
that we've given to our congressional delegation
that we met with last year and that we're also meeting with
in the next couple of months to talk about help
that they can give us with respect
to the federal government.
But we continue to now reach out to those US attorneys,
just like many of the states, like Oregon is,
to make sure we have that conversation.
All right, Steve, Billy, where are the combos?
How are they going?
Well, so first, the cold memo went away.
I don't see a change in our policies.
A lot of the provisions of the cold memo
are enshrined in Oregon law and our sets of regulations.
So clearly, that's still going to be
a focal point for our regulatory structure here in Oregon.
And you know that we've worked on enforcement now.
We've had criminal activity.
And we've already coordinated with law enforcement
and the US Attorney's Office along the way
on those big cases that involve criminal activity.
I don't see a change in the focus of the US attorney
on criminal activity.
But the summons is very encouraging to me
because he's taking the time to get educated
about what's happening on the ground here in Oregon.
I think he's interested to learn in areas
that they haven't had much experience with
because they didn't know what they were doing as well
under with the lack of decision making on rescission
and direction from the Trump administration.
Now, I think they've got some autonomy within each region
to take a look at what's happening.
And I very much think the US Attorney's bill
is what it's taking.
I think the summons is going to be a good thing for the state.
I think we've got great educational opportunity there.
But they're not going to lose their focus
on going after criminal activity.
So in your conversations thus far,
the focus has remained if you're diverting product
to the illegal market or if you're just plain operating
in an illegal market, the best.
Absolutely.
If you're being legal, if you're following the rules
and you're being compliant with city sale tracking,
the old easy framework, nothing has changed.
No focus change.
That didn't change anything from his perspective.
No focus change there.
But I think you all read his editorial
where he was focused on how much supply we're generating.
Not just his problem, problem for all of us
in this industry right now about how that plus supply
is going to be consumed, what happens with the economics,
what the pressure is on for diversion from that.
So what I hear as a licensee is if you grew it
in the legal market, if it's tracked in the legal market,
if you're a legal licensee, the focus,
the worst thing that we could do as an industry
is take product that was produced legally and divert it.
People that are doing that should
expect to have penalties.
As always, it's against the law.
But people that are keeping it inside the market,
there might be price reductions.
There may be product that goes bad.
Lots of things could happen to that.
But we as an industry need to give confidence to the OCC
as well as the US District Attorney
that product that's inside the market
will be dealt with appropriately,
and it won't be diverted out.
That's the worst thing that we can do.
A couple bad actors could change the focus to the industry that
is legal, which we all have our addresses and phone numbers
and contact information.
It's easier for them to find us.
So everything we can do to be better at that is important.
And so you addressed this.
Go ahead.
Can I just follow up on that?
This is kind of getting on the downside of the industry
right now.
As welcoming as we were at bringing people in and getting
them into the system and trying to make the licensing process
as penetrable as possible, one of the flip sides of that
is we're going to have to help you when you need to align,
when you decide you need to get out of the business
and figure out ways to get those inventories down
and how we can help you get to that point
to make it easier to turn in your license if you need to,
if you're at that point where you're at the tipping scale
and you need to get out and have
this product in the market, we've
got to help you get that product out of your business
and into places in our legal system where it should be.
We've had companies that have destroyed their product just
to get out cleanly right now.
And that's what they wanted to do.
They have that ethic about the system
and not taking the product and skipping it
elsewhere in the world here.
So we want to work on that, too, just to make sure
that as you do online, that you can do so readily
for those that need to.
Yep.
Absolutely.
So that jumps me to something that happened
that Ricky mentioned earlier, maybe someone has heard about.
Minor decoy system from a compliance check
that we've done in Oregon.
We went out.
Minor decoy system, for everybody that knows,
is someone goes out that's under 21,
tries to purchase product from a licensed retailer.
They have an ID that says they're under 21.
It has a big red box on it in Oregon that says, I'm under 21.
They're not trying to trick anybody.
That was my first question.
Are they really crafty, fake IDs of guys with long beards,
looking like they're 35?
And it's, no, it looks like a child with an ID that says,
I'm a child under 21.
And we didn't do so great.
And Ricky said, that's to be expected to some degree
for a very new industry.
We have to be better.
That is one of the things, man, if we as an industry
fail that continuously, it's going
to draw a lot of undue attention.
Do you guys agree?
So Rick, can you speak to that, how that went in Washington?
You guys had to start.
How long did it take you to really start
giving those kind of minor decoys?
Do you do them now?
Well, we do at least three to four visits a year.
But we initially did it.
We saw the same results because no one had ever done compliance
checks for these retailers.
So it kind of made sense.
In Washington, it's a vertical ID.
If you're 21, it's a horizontal ID.
So it wasn't really hard to know that you're
looking at a piece of ID that says the individual's
likely to be under 21.
But again, just for the experience of it,
it didn't take long for the industry
to understand that this is problematic.
We've got to make sure.
We go right back in.
If there's a sale, we'll be back in with it three months
to see if folks have learned how to do that.
And a lot of times, it means we're doing training again
with the employees there to help them.
But I wasn't really surprised to see the numbers,
though I read the reports that people were very concerned.
Well, I think they should be concerned.
But you should understand.
Maybe 50% or 60% would have been alarming.
You were still high, even for the first compliance
checks you'd ever seen.
It will get better.
I mean, that's what I keep telling Steve
because that was our experience.
And that's the experience of the other states.
Rick's been through it.
But I'm not as ready to forgive or forget
or not to follow through.
We're in that stage of compliance
now where you've got to perform.
And I can tell you there's been nothing more damaging
than that poor report on the minor ID checks.
Your friends in government are really, really disappointed.
And we had pockets that were well below 50%.
Portland metropolitan area was abysmal.
And we've got to get that together.
I mean, there's a colored coloring around the box
in the picture right there.
So this is a visual thing.
This is just lack of training, lack of willingness
to follow through.
When we started this, we wanted to do ID checking at the door.
That was a bill.
And that didn't happen.
No one under 21 or 18, if you've got your medical card,
could get in.
That would have helped with your compliance.
So we have help that we can give you to get into compliance.
We want to help you be in compliance.
I can't tell you how much immediate pressure
that I felt from the political leadership of the state
when those statistics came out.
They want changes.
They don't like our penalty schedule.
And they're very excited about it.
So this is a case study for all of the next things that
are going to roll out for us.
Because we really haven't done full retail checking yet.
We haven't had those procedures in place.
We're never going to get into labs, really,
until maybe the tail end of this process
when we're doing more complete audits and inspections.
But all those things are coming.
I think we've been good through the bulletins of telling you,
expect this, expect that, get ready for this,
and laying it out.
I mean, we've sent out through our bulletins
before the December minor decoy checks.
It's coming.
It came.
And we didn't do so well.
So I know we're going to get better.
But I'm frustrated by it.
I thought we were ahead of the game with them.
And our commission is going to be considering some actions.
I don't know what they'll take.
But they are disappointed.
And we had a chance to talk last night.
And it was very apparent, both Rick and Steve,
that your intentions are to help the industry be better.
It is not to say, gotcha.
And that's a big deal as a licensee that's coming in.
The OCC, the WLCB are coming in to actually help us
maintain compliance, to keep focus off the regulated
industry, undo focus off the regulated industry,
and help us be better.
And so it is important, extremely important,
that everyone's compliant.
And you guys and your agencies are doing everything
you can to help and willing to help in any way
to maintain compliance.
And the real human consequence of not having that training.
I mean, the worker has a worker permit.
And they're potentially going to lose that.
They get fired.
A bunch of those that failed, fired their workers
and failed to do checks.
I'm not saying whether that's right or wrong.
An outcall side that goes through that.
And it's whether there's remedial training,
that's where we should be.
They got a Schedule 1 drug.
We're rolling out a new system.
This is the simplest of things to make happen right.
And we need to make it happen right.
I remember there was some surprise
when we began our first compliance checks.
And we talked about it last night.
We actually sent letters to all the retailers
telling them we were coming.
We also did press releases to the media
and said, we're coming.
And they said, why would you do that?
Well, because we want voluntary compliance.
We're not there to stick the retailer.
We just want you to make sure you're checking ID.
And I probably had something to do,
but I think Oregon did the same thing.
But to your point, I think we're trying
to get voluntary compliance
without having to write violations.
You guys, your agency exists and gets money
when the industry is successful.
It's growing and thriving.
There is no purpose.
And that's a theme that I always get
and I try to tell everybody
every time I get a public forum to do it
is the OCC, the Liquor Control Board in Washington
is here to support the industry
and help it move forward the best that it can.
And there's rules and guidelines
that we all need to follow because of that.
So that kind of brings me to my next topic.
Some people think there's too much product
in Oregon right now.
I don't know why.
It could cause some concern, right?
I'm imagining outside of the miner decoy,
there's going to be increased compliance checks
on where that product goes.
Once it enters into the metric system,
it's legal, it's grown, produced.
Where does it end up?
That's really, really important.
The next worst thing that could happen
outside of selling to miners
is a bunch of legal product in Kansas
that was produced in Oregon.
So, I mean, what did you guys do originally?
Did you see that much of an issue of overproduction?
Early on, of course not, because we learned.
And so it's back to this gold rush mentality
that occurred five years ago,
as it did in most of the states, with legalization.
I don't think people recognize how bumpy the ride would be
and how it continues to be bumpy,
given that you've got this violation of federal law.
So you create a system that's so restrictive,
and I recognize so expensive for the industry.
But, you know, I...
You didn't have the same issue
that we're having right now in Oregon.
Well, we did initially,
because we started with the producer licenses in March,
and we issued retail licenses in July,
and guess what happened?
We had an undersupply.
So what did we learn from that?
We should have given at least six months to nine months
before we opened our first retail shops.
So I suspect there was an oversupply
in Oregon and Washington before legalization.
And the reason I bring that up is,
remember, it takes time to move toward a legal marketplace.
It's not gonna happen overnight.
So you're gonna have illegal grows,
you're gonna have oversupply of the system
as you come to realize and understand
the supply and demand for that marketplace.
And it's very difficult for us to deal with.
But that's the same cry as you in Washington right now.
There's an oversupply.
So we actually reached out.
Initially, when we began, we knew nothing.
There was very little out there with respect to cannabis.
Remember, Colorado was the only state
that had a regulated medical marketplace.
We even went to Europe thinking,
well, we're gonna find out how to regulate cannabis
in Europe, absolutely not.
No one regulates cannabis in Europe.
They decriminalize it.
But there was no one out there but Colorado.
We spent, that was a group of 25 in Washington,
25 in Colorado, that met once every two weeks for hours.
We learned everything that we could from Colorado.
And then we hired Dr. Mark Kleinman,
Dr. Bo Kilmer with the Grand Corporation, Botech,
Angela Hopkins and Jonathan Calkins.
These are people that are known all over the country
as experts in drug policy around cannabis.
We hired them and subcontracted them to help us understand.
They actually surveyed by city and county in our state,
what is the consumption rate for cannabis for folks over 21.
That's how we built our system to try to make sure
that we weren't diverting or oversupply in Washington.
And it was bumpy to begin with,
but we would have never thought after three years,
so three and a half years of retail,
our first year, 250 million in sales.
Our second year, 800 million in sales.
Last year, 1.3 billion in sales.
700 million in excise taxes being collected for the state.
I'll give you an example, because as you heard earlier,
we were a control state for spirits.
Spirit sales in 2011 were about 800 million.
Cannabis sales in Washington are 1.3 billion.
And alcohol sales in Washington
are about three billion a year.
So you can see, we never, in fact,
the estimates fiscally for how the industry would grow
or what the revenue was, was about a third to a half
of what we've collected.
So it's a robust, it's a big industry in Washington.
I think finally, because we've ended,
look how long it's taken, we've ended the allowance
for new licenses for producers, processors, and retailers
that we're actually starting to stabilize as far as sales.
So I hear two things with that.
A lot of tax revenue builds a confidence in the state
to keep that going.
That tax revenue is put to work in a lot of great ways.
But quick question for you, do you see Washington
opening up its canopy limits and or allowing out of state
in the near future?
Well, I don't see us opening canopy
because there's so much concern in Washington this year
that there's too much canopy, that the price of cannabis
is now really close to what you showed me this morning,
Steve, as far as about $6 average per gram.
And I'm hearing the same concerns in Oregon
that I'm hearing in Washington today.
So I don't suspect we're gonna open up the canopy at all.
Okay, Steve, your turn.
As far as the number of licenses,
is that what's the OCC's perspective on it?
How do they help?
Do you let it figure itself out?
Do you cap it?
What are your thoughts?
The OCC doesn't have a definitive position on caps
versus letting the market run.
And I personally think we were set up
as a open market qualifications based.
I think we should deal with it on that basis.
That might be a bit messier for this agency
and enforcement deal because we could surely button it up
and make a nice, neat recreational medical consumer market
inside the OCC with caps and restrictions.
Policymakers are gonna think about that.
And I think there's an equitable debate there
about which way the state could go.
It certainly would be a quick, easy solution.
Put a cap on the word you're putting.
And are you gonna take in just those people
who got in today, the moratorium?
Are you gonna put in all those folks
that have submitted a license or the $3,000 in the queue
and give them an opportunity?
Are you gonna extend it to these folks
that have declared an OHA that are gonna come on?
Pretty soon that number gets large enough
that it's meaningless.
And I think the politics drive us to a larger number.
So I'm not sure that caps will be effective
even if we do.
Right.
So you're saying you're leaning towards
it not making sense to obviously cap it
and let the market figure it out.
That is not an OLCC decision.
That's an analysis.
An analysis, that's right.
So one of the things that Washington does,
it's, I should say better, data to the market.
Oregon, this is our first year,
first major year of production.
And data is incredibly helpful for us
as we're trying to build our business model.
So Washington releases a lot of data.
Oregon is starting to release data.
That data would allow the industry
to analyze the amount of product that's being produced
and make strategic business decisions based on that.
You see Oregon moving in a direction
where they're like, we wanna release
as much data as possible.
What are the overall flaws around that?
What can we reasonably expect?
So I think we're gonna, I'm sure we're gonna move
in the realm of more transparency with our data.
We're getting better at it.
The data's starting to clean up some too
because it was not very meaningful,
still not entirely meaningful
what we have in the system yet today.
But I hope that we move in that direction.
Our new chairman, Paul Risenbaum,
actually has an experience with a little company
that's nationwide that, RenTrack,
that monitors all of your viewing on set,
top boxes on TV, understands data really well.
So I think he needs some time to get in
and experience what he thinks we should be
in terms of a data producer.
But I think we're gonna get there
and put more and more and more data out.
And I hope that you see that in the coming future.
I don't think we're gonna jump suddenly
and do a lot of things
because I think we need to work with some,
in part, work with other states right now
because there's some parameters as we share data,
how we define it, how we look at it
that are really helping us think about establishing
the long-term parameters for best practices
and management of marijuana in Oregon,
or across the country, actually,
in terms of what our standards are.
So I wouldn't expect to see a lot of changes immediately,
but then again, there's some things we're required to do.
We have to put out a supply report.
We're gonna do that before the 19th session.
So some of the indeterminate questions,
we've got about four million pounds of wet weight,
and maybe when it's dry, 683 pounds annually of dry weight.
These are numbers that,
these are estimates that aren't certified estimates, right?
We're working through to figure out how we use this
and what's meaningful in the calculations
when we put out information.
But we're gonna have to report
to the legislature on the supply.
It's one thing the federal government is interested
in seeing us follow through and do,
is that confusing part between wet and dry.
It's pretty confounding how much is going to extracts,
how much extracts on extracts to edibles.
We've got a growing market.
We have new market entrants coming in in Oregon.
More and more medical folks are utilizing our system.
And because of the less retail on the medical side,
I think we're gonna see some growth there.
So how much of this can be consumed?
What's its ultimate product mix?
We're gonna get a full cycle in the coming year,
which I think we'll have a good set of data
to take a look at it, and we'll be able to see
from fall harvest to all the way through
a good cycle of data,
how all of that harvest translates into products
and supply in our system.
So more to come.
Yeah, they're legal.
Well, it's kind of interesting that what I've learned
is our public disclosure laws
are very different in the states.
So Washington's referred to as the Sunshine Law,
which means there's not much that's protected.
In other words, the reason why data's available,
not only in the system, but with respect to our licensees,
enforcement violations that are issued,
all of that information is available on our website.
I'm sure for a lot of the industry that's concerning,
but at the same time, it makes us better understand
and others understand what our marketplace looks like.
But a lot of the restrictions, I think Oregon's
kind of in the other direction.
They're looking to protect public information.
In our state, we don't have much that we can do about that
other than provide that information.
But as an example, that's one of the reasons
why we have had more success in banking,
is that information, our retailers sign a waiver
that allows us to provide the licensing file
to the banks, to the credit unions.
By doing that, we've done a criminal background check,
we've found out a financial investigation,
where the money came from.
That gives or removes some of the anxiety
that the banking industry has in our state
because we provide that information.
They also have the ability to ask for a monthly report
of any activity, what's going on with the licensing,
what's being reported through the traceability system.
They look at what's happening in the account
that they hold with that particular licensee
to make sure that they can account for it.
I'll be honest with you, I think that's the biggest reason
why we've had success in our state with banking.
It doesn't seem like the industry in Washington,
it seems like in Oregon, we're really opposed
and we were going through the data and what was public
and what was not, really, really, really opposed to it
because there is security risks there.
But in the state of Washington,
the way that you release the data
is the industry angry about it?
Well, I don't know if they'd be angry.
I'd be concerned about it because you can go into our system
and find out exactly where our licensing address is,
for example, and I can go in there
and see what your sales are.
But I think everybody recognizes
because early on we shared that,
there's not anything we can do about that.
There hasn't been a bunch of negative repercussions
because that data is out.
Not that I'm aware of.
So the state of Oregon, what are the laws around it?
You said the actual disclosure laws.
What can you and can't you release?
Legally versus what you want to.
The big primary thing is landowner name
and affiliation with the property, right?
We want that protected.
And Senator Porzanski got the names of individuals,
not being able to keep records of retail
on individual sales as much.
So we lost some data.
I'd say we're in the middle.
We do have to dispose a lot.
If you ask us for the records,
we'll have to provide them.
We make an evaluation then
about what box needs to be checked.
The only ones we consider are security
and I'm not sure that I've seen us deny
any particular information,
but landowner information on those by that.
So there's a lot available.
We haven't put it out systemically.
You're gonna start seeing more dashboards
and compilations of our movement through metric
here in the near future.
So it's about getting the infrastructure set up
and the ability to give data that makes sense.
Because dry weight is not meaning usable weight.
There's sticks, there's family,
if everything goes through that,
how much of that actually is usable?
So that's good data to get eventually.
So you're working on it.
You can't do it.
It will be coming out.
It's just a matter of prioritizing that
and get that on the list.
Okay, a couple minutes left.
Quick question.
Him.
How is the OCC dealing with him getting into the market?
Can you talk about that for a couple minutes?
Well, you know, I'll say this.
In the last year and a half,
I haven't seen, maybe a little less than that last year,
on our final rule makings,
I haven't seen many members of the marijuana community
and when we're doing rules.
I see the hemp folks in droves.
They're concerned, they want penetration
to our retail licensing market.
You know, we started off saying they could
and do the packaging.
They expected to come in and then our rules backed off.
Our commission made a decision to let them in
without being in the metric tracking system.
New federal requirements were out there around hemp
and the consumption, human consumption.
New legislation was passed.
So now we've let hemp come in to our system
through processors as required by the law.
There's legislation pending
that would allow, excuse me,
the tracking of marijuana metric
right off of the site you've designated him.
Coming in, it would be entered into metric
and it would proceed through his tract.
I think that would entail also a clear stream for hemp,
being very distinct from the marijuana inside our system.
Maybe it's on symbols, certainly it's on packaging
and making it a separate stream.
This is an industry problem in the competition.
We've tended to favor those that are paying for our system,
the marijuana producers and hemp producers.
And the marijuana producers that had paid the freight
on our system and have imposed,
who have met our security requirements on the ground
and producers haven't had that.
Now it's less dangerous, maybe that's too much.
But they have access to a completely different market
than we have in our market.
So we've staked out one part of the scope.
I don't think the industry, the legislature,
everyone has a handle on how that's going to come together
in the retail marketplace across the spectrum,
not just in our shops.
So it's a difficult question to solve and one fell swoop.
We put a marker in, I think everyone's pivoting off that.
But it's gonna be an enforcement problem for Oregon too.
This whole grow issue is very compounding
with our growers of marijuana,
whose grow is what and where and how much product.
Hemp can be exported.
People are worried about diversion of marijuana
and the hemp exportation as a possibility.
Certainly a lot of bulk product looks the same,
smells a lot the same,
and it makes for tough enforcement.
So it's gonna be a tough issue.
So in one minute or less as we're wrapping up,
Washington's focus.
So can I talk about hemp for a minute?
Oh yeah.
So we don't regulate hemp, the LCB,
it's the Department of Ag.
But I actually got a kick out of the fact
how times are changing.
This is a shampoo from the Red Lion here on the river.
And it says hemp and lemon shampoo.
Oh there you go, all right.
I didn't say 12% THC.
Yeah, I did say 12% THC, yeah.
Okay, so quick bullet point format.
What's the focus, top three focus for Washington
that you guys are gonna focus on over the next 12 months?
Is rules, session, legislation, or is it?
I think a couple of rule changes that we're looking at,
packaging and labeling, for example.
Pretty strict regulations initially.
We're taking a look at that and coming out
in probably next month with changes to that.
Make it a little easier for the industry.
I think we're, I mean just, it's interesting
that it's legislative day today
for the credit unions in Washington.
And they're going up on the hill.
And one of the three big issues for them
is continuing to have the state assistance in banking.
So we're watching that closely.
And then we're continuing to work with cities and counties.
We have bans and moratorias in our state.
And it was pretty problematic initially
because the initiative didn't speak
to whether cities and counties
could impose bans and moratorias.
So we went to the Attorney General and asked for an opinion.
And unfortunately the opinion was
because the initiative was silent on bans and moratorias,
cities and counties, you can impose them.
Yet at the same time they told the LCB,
because it was silent and someone meets
the licensing requirements, which doesn't have anything
to do with bans or moratorias,
you've gotta issue a license in the city and county.
If a city and county imposes a ban or moratoria,
you can imagine how popular the state was
when we issued licenses in cities and counties
that had bans and moratorias.
A real frustration for that.
And actually we even would have supported the ability
for cities and counties to be able to veto that
because there was so much consternation
and people were so upset as far as cities and counties
that we would issue license in defiance
of their bans or moratorias.
But again, the legislature wouldn't move there.
Yeah, all right.
Enforcement training and compliance.
I mean, we're in that mode now.
We wanna work with you as we go forward in that.
We will.
We're gonna have educational sections on the new rules
that have been adopted and changes you need to be aware of.
I think the legislative section,
there's definitely, and it's not necessarily
with our agency, I think there is a push in the need
to look at overall enforcement resources
in the state of Oregon.
I think the governor and legislature are interested in that.
I'm not sure how they're gonna finance that.
I don't particularly think that all that
needs to be financed on the backs of our system or our fees.
And that some of that should perhaps come out
of the tax dollars we're generating.
We've stood up an industry with you
that at the end of this biennium in total
is gonna, from my startup to now,
is gonna generate $210 million.
So there's some dollars there to invest
in making the enforcement system better,
to invest in making our services better,
which is another piece of the equation.
We gotta get our licensing system
working better with renewals.
You know, we're out doing the trainings and the clinics
to make that happen quicker.
If you haven't renewed, get renewed.
But working on the services that we provide as well
from an IT perspective is...
Well, the better funding you guys can get,
the smoother the industry will be in the regulation
and the faster we can continue to move forward.
So thank you guys so much for coming.
Thank you for your time.
Thank you for your assistance.
Thank you.
