You know, back in the early 90s after you met Willie Nelson, I was honored to get a
call from you and say, Willie Nelson's going to contact you.
And I could hardly believe it actually when you called and told me that, but less than
a couple weeks later that really happened.
I really appreciate that.
But then about three weeks after that, I flew there to Lexington and starting at the Hyatt
Regency, right next to, is it Rupp Auditorium?
Rupp Arena.
Rupp Arena.
And you took off in your red Mercedes-Benz station wagon and drove in a hemp biodiesel
car.
Could you tell our audience a little bit how that came about and how you actually first
taught Willie Nelson, who's now a big proponent of biodiesel, about hemp biodiesel?
We'd always heard that Rudolph Diesel had manufactured his diesel engine run off seed
oil.
We really didn't understand, quite grasp that.
This was in the early 90s, late 80s.
And then a fellow from Nevada, Las Vegas, Nevada, came through town driving a little
Volkswagen diesel and he was running it off Burger King oil.
And so we had just derived some hemp oil out of hemp seeds.
Hemp seeds are 30 to 40 percent oil by weight.
You've got 100 pounds of hemp seeds, you can derive 30 to 40 pounds of pure oil out of
it.
And so we had some of that and he tested it out in his engine and he said, this is the
best seed oil that I've ever driven this car on.
So we had seed oil.
When Willie came in to do a benefit concert for me, we poured that hemp oil into my Mercedes
diesel and drove it about 110 miles across Kentucky.
And it was the first time in, I guess, 50 to 60 years that any vehicle had ever been
driven on hemp oil on the United States roads.
But Willie told me later on, 12 years later actually, no, I mean, about 10 years later,
he says, Gatewood, he says, that afternoon we did that, it taught me what it was all
about and that's the reason I started my biofuel company was from what we learned that afternoon
driving your Mercedes across there.
And we were also smoking about the biggest hooter that's probably rolled in Kentucky
at the time.
And there was a caravan of us.
We went from the Hyatt there and Rupp Auditorium through Frankfurt, the state capital, which
is about 80 miles and then altogether 120 miles all the way into Louisville, which is
the largest city in Kentucky.
And then he did a big benefit concert for you there that night.
That's right.
And so it was a real honor to participate in that.
And I know CNN had their environmental show Earthwatch and they covered that pretty intensely.
So you're running for governor again.
If you were elected, what are the top three action items that you would enact as governor?
You know, Kentucky is a dysfunctional state.
We've not been able to pass a balanced budget in four out of the last seven sessions.
We've had to go to special sessions and advanced sessions to get the actual budget passed because
neither party can produce a candidate in disengagement of partisanship long enough to work with the
other side.
It's just all very vicious and vituperative and people are getting turned off with all
the negative ads.
And what we've got to do first and foremost is to restore a sense of integrity and honesty
and even handedness in the process itself.
We could come up with all kinds of hypothetical programs that we could apply and let people
have access to, but it would get shredded by the policies of fear and retribution on
the state level.
So we've got to return integrity and trust in the process itself.
In the state of Kentucky, it's very poor.
We're among the third or fourth poorest state in the union.
We've got 23 states of, 23 counties of Appalachia, which are the poorest regions of the union,
of the states.
So we need to, we need to get people interested in the process again because nobody wants
anything to do with it.
It's just so dirty and mean and despicable.
Everybody's calling everybody, I've run before where I said, I believe all my opponents are
honorable men and what they're saying about each other is true, which makes them all unfit
for office.
You know, but so, so the first thing is to try to restore that integrity.
And the way we do that is by giving everybody a chance to do right.
You know, we cannot oppose these people.
We can't overpower them.
We've got to control them into doing what they believe is right for the people.
In Kentucky's dynamics, for 40 years, the Democrats ruled everything that the Republicans
didn't have any, didn't have the House, didn't have the Senate, and didn't have the governor's
office.
For 40 years, the Democrats ruled over the Republicans and treated them like shit.
And so 10 years ago, the Republicans took over the Senate and they've been practicing
the politics of retribution for the last 10 years.
And you know, they've been treating the Democrats like they got treated for those 40 years and
the Democrats don't know what to do.
They're screaming like scalded dogs.
You know, but they did it to the Republicans.
And so there's been one fellow who's doing it, he's called a bully, the leader of the
Senate.
And you know, he is a bully and he can be other than charming on many occasions.
But he's just giving the Democrats what it is they gave the Republicans all that time.
So what I'm telling the people of the state of Kentucky, look, it's time to stop practicing
the politics of retribution and get into practicing the politics of achievement.
You know, we can no longer, you know, be retributive because it's killing the state of Kentucky.
We're bankrupt.
We're absolutely desperate for cash.
And that's why I believe that my plan to immediately start planting hemp as a gas crop next spring,
you know, within two months after I take over the office of the state of Kentucky.
My first act I'm going to do is I'm going to take the military helicopters out from
going over the fields and gardens of the people of the state of Kentucky.
You know, this is America, not Afghanistan, and we're not an occupied territory and I'm
not going to treat our citizens like we are one.
I'm going to take the Army and the National Guard out of police activity.
They're no longer going to be assisting state police.
Those helicopters are going to be used for emergency medical and disaster relief only.
And so we're going to revolutionize the relationship between the police and the people.
There's no longer going to be an us versus them kind of attitude.
There's going to be a we and there's going to be respect given.
And don't come in here and mess up.
Don't come in here and confuse our civility and statesmanship with being weak on anything.
We're not.
But we're going to start treating people as sovereign human beings.
We're going to get marijuana into the hands of the sick and dying folks immediately as
soon as we can.
We're going to try to set up an even-handed tax regulatory system on it so we can get
some new tax money in instead of putting more taxes on the wage earner here in the state.
I mean, let's face it.
If we just took the profits of the drug lords and put them into our educational system,
it'd be solved overnight.
I saw a bust of a drug lord down in Mexico the other day.
He had $12 billion stacked.
Stacked in a room.
$12 billion.
Now that's the budget of Kentucky for two years.
He had stacked there.
What we could do with education, what we could do.
The other thing I want to do is I'd really like to sue the pharmaceutical companies and
make them come up with hundreds of millions of dollars in drug treatment programs for
the problems that they're solving with their pharmaceutical medicine.
