And certain people have made these things possible in the cannabis community.
We have so many cannabis warriors that have come before us that don't get nearly
enough attention.
And all of us get to come out here and march around and we have our cheers and
our chants and our flags and we need to do it all the time.
But years ago, there were only a few people that had the guts to do this.
And we need to give them homage on a day like today, rain or
shine, they would be here.
Dr. Phil Levesque is one guy, he's still alive and well and 91 years old.
And he is one of the premier people, not just in the state of Oregon, but
throughout the United States, that has helped make today happen.
That has brought this in front of the people, that has been an honest,
true, brave warrior.
To the extent that he lost his entire career and
is no longer able to sign prescriptions, and he did that for us.
He gave up his right to be a doctor, basically, for us, that's his sacrifice.
Jack Hare is another guy that a lot of you people would have seen here today,
if he was still here.
Jack was this terrific warrior that never,
never gave up under any circumstances.
And what would he say today?
He'd say, sow the seeds of education.
Everybody that's here, we are not preaching to the choir.
You guys need to take everything home and tell 100 people.
That's what Jack would want you to do.
We gotta keep the momentum up.
Prohibition is an ugly, ugly thing, and we need to yank it out of the ground like
a root and make this a better thing for all people in the United States.
If we get those 800,000 people, stop them from getting arrested and
jailed every year, think of the happy times everybody would have at Christmas.
Think about all the people that would have a fulfilled life.
And so it's about medical, but
it's also just about life, liberty, and happiness, and ending prohibition.
So in closing, I'd like to say, one, please tune in to salemnews.com.
We're everywhere around the world.
We have 125 writers in over 100 countries.
So you are well represented by looking at Salem News and
seeing what's going on for your community and industry around the world.
And direct from Dr. Levesque, he would like me to tell you to not smoke in the ring.
That's it.
