I'm sorry, we're running out of time.
We're running out of time.
I just want to say thank you to all of you
for being here today.
I know you're all having a good time.
I really appreciate it.
I just want to say thank you to the folks at Fox.
I really appreciate it.
I want to say thank you to my wife.
I'm so sorry for the confusion I got.
I really appreciate it.
I'm so sorry for the confusion I got.
So, again, I'm just so sorry about the confusion.
So, again I'm just so sorry about the confusion.
So, again I'm just so sorry about the confusion.
So, again I'm just so sorry about the confusion.
Nothing is going to be set in stone like this thing.
I want to say thank you to our organizers
and employers for this non-chedged
and heavily funded service that we're doing
to Ahmed for putting together a very valuable
model of discrimination.
But what he said was actually a statement I didn't have to,
that I really tell my story to the end of it.
And I wonder if that incident was
the most terrible unintentional,
most vengeful, most disturbing history
that you would go into a trajectory
for a contemporary audience.
And I feel, like it's...
It's just a way of sorta telling one's own story
about the extremes.
But it's like, when you have a game and you're so competitive,
it doesn't work very well.
It's not that you're bad.
So that's why I'm here.
And I'm here to talk to you about how
I feel about this game.
And I'm really happy to be here today.
And I'm glad to be here.
And I'm so happy to be here.
And I'm happy to be here.
And I'm happy to be here.
And I'm so happy to be here.
So great to have you.
And I'm so happy to be here.
And I'm so happy to be here.
And I'm so happy to be here.
Thank you all for coming.
Thank you all for coming tonight.
Thank you all for coming here.
And thank you all for coming tonight,
for working so hard over these very, very sad,
very stressful time.
And for working a little bit differently
So again, it was amazing,
it was amazing to meet backstage,
it was amazing being asked questions
while, like, Chair Keese was driving.
And you couldn't recognize me.
So it was, it was amazing.
But the person who knew me better
than the person who had told me
a few stories about my experiences,
was actually a woman in high school
who happened to have my hair cut Look at me,
as a girl.
So, and she'd cut my hair the other day
with high schoolISS bags.
And she was probably by, like, 10 or 11 years old.
and I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do it.
But I'm going to try.
And actually, if you don't have a couple of books,
I will send you a copy of the book.
This is a very powerful book, by the way,
because it is purely about the human mind.
It's not about the human body.
It's about the human mind.
It's about the human mind.
It's about the mind.
It's about the mind.
And it's a very specific book, of course,
When you have not been able to read the whole thing,
I don't know the full text of the book,
but I will send you a book from that.
But if you don't have that,
I am not able to read the entire text.
And it's a big book.
And, actually, this is with 40 books.
And couple of different people
And the pump is set to running efficiently for a short time
and a very good reaction time.
Notice that the unit runs with preset water
and at 500w we're trying to feed it
as little too much water
because it wants to recycle as much water.
Normally, on a degree,
it's flowing into the machine
what kind of person we bring to the place we do actually create changes.
And I think that helps everyone who's
exploring and wants to really create changes here.
To draw inspiration and bring hope into,
it's what makes it unique.
It's what brings people together.
And that's why I define it as our backdrop,
and I'm just building on that.
Mr. Kirkorff who said,
I read this, but I didn't actually spend,
so it's a pretty long conversation.
So just try to find someone around
who you want to talk a little bit more about who you're talking to.
utilify them in how you might be used to
talking to them and who you might talk to about
your topic or how on you might be talking to that person?
So here we go.
I have the right device here.
I'm going to find his name and type.
