I'm Brian Wilson, I go by Brian the Red.
I've been an activist my entire life, seriously.
And to see the changes that they are trying to make to the programs that we voted in as a people,
it really turns my stomach.
I worked on the medical campaigns back in the 90s because my father had a broken back
and degenerative disc disease since before I was born.
The only thing that could get him up out of laying in agony in bed,
not even able to tie his own shoes for weeks at a time, was a small puff of cannabis.
That small miracle got him up out of bed and taking four to five mile bike rides with my brothers and I.
That's why I fought for this.
Recently I lost a really good friend to brain cancer.
It was a GBM, glioblastoma multiforme stage four.
And usually people, when they get the diagnosis of that condition, they aren't given more than about nine weeks.
He survived 22 months and died just last month,
not in a hospital surrounded by machines and incompetent doctors,
but in his home surrounded by his family.
It's not comfortable.
You know, the people in these buildings, they don't realize the lives that their pen strokes affect
until it's their grandparents, it's their brother, it's their father, their mother, their sister, or themselves.
They need to wake up and realize that people are dying every day,
and for them to look at a ledger and see only dollar signs and the taxes that can come in
to fund the programs that we don't even give a crap about,
it makes me really sad.
But to see all you guys out here fighting, that makes me happy.
It means that we've got a chance, that there is a future here,
and that there's a bright possibility that we will get everything we want.
Recreational is a great thing.
It's not exactly the freedom that we all want.
People thought that once it passed, hey, we are at the finish line.
No, this is just the bottom of a hill.
We are at the forefront of the greatest race of our lives,
and we need to keep running until we get the rights that we deserve to be treated like regular people.
And for people who don't have options to actually have something that they can turn to besides,
oh, sorry, what, you want some pharmaceuticals? Here, we'll put you on the roller coaster.
That doesn't work for a while? Oh, we'll try this other pill.
Also, they can line the pockets of some big businessman who lives in a high-rise apartment and jets around.
That's not us. That's not the people. That's not America.
And that's definitely not Oregon.
So we're going to keep fighting, and you guys better hear us in that building,
because we're not going anywhere until we get what we want and what we deserve as human beings.
Thank you.
