I started working with the Grateful Dead in 1988. I was running the rock medicine team.
I was buckstopper for the downtent. And when Jerry died in 1995, that same month, we were
having a hip rally up here in Seattle. And I retired from running the rock medicine team
and decided that I needed to go to the hip rally. I'd been playing hip rallies since
1991. And I came up here, I played on main stage, and when I was done with that, I helped
just do rock medicine, take care of the crowd issues, and things that come up in the crowd.
What we discovered was in a hip rally, there are not too many things that come up in a
crowd, a lot less than they did at the Dead shows. So it's been a long journey. That was
1995, and here it is, 2015, and I'm still here. I represent Seattle Hip Fest as the
Grand Prize Committee now. I've been opening act for 19 years, and we just have a whole
bunch of things that we do to try to raise money for the cause now. So it's kind of
turned from a gut-wrenching, everybody's going to jail, to now a celebration, and everybody's
here and they're all making money. And it's a different world now than when we started,
and as you know. So I'm just glad to be a part of it still. I'm really grateful to be
here.
Well, you bring up a really good common point when people say, well, why do you still need
to do that? Didn't you win? Yeah, we won here in Washington, a little bit. And we won
a little bit in Oregon, and we won a little bit in California, we've won a little bit
in some states. But quite frankly, there's still people getting cops pulling them over
every day. There's still people who are getting arrested every day. There's still people getting
put in jail. There's still people being fined, going to prison, losing their kids, getting
their dog shot in their front yard. There's still people, as long as that is going on,
will be here. You just want to make sure your voice is being heard. And if you really
believe in what you're doing, you've got to stand up, and you've got to speak the truth.
So that's all I've really ever tried to do, was stand up and speak the truth, either in
my written word, in my vocal word, in my singing word. It's just stand up and speak the truth.
And speak the truth to power, you'll never lose out. Speak the truth to power. So that's
what we've tried to do here as a conscious effort throughout all the years that we've
been here at the Hempfest.
