Thanks for having me up here. It's great to be up here. It's my first year
I was the coordinator for the March down in Medford for five years
I'm the former director of Southern Oregon normal. I was the executive director for five years up until June 1st of
2012
May 23rd
2012 my facility was raided by Madge. That's the Medford area drug and gang enforcement in Jackson County
Under the direction of the state of Oregon
My husband and I were arrested and we were in Jackson County Jail for seven days under
$550,000 bail each
We were charged with more than 25 class-a felonies
We knew our rights because we had great attorneys
My attorney was Paul Loney
You can see his banner right over here
My husband had Leland Berger many of you know my great friend Leland Berger
They're both normal attorneys. I suggest you support normal
Because they've been around for a long time
Southern Oregon normal is no longer in existence that chapter closed
There's Portland normal now I'm signing up today
Roswellville's the executive director there I believe
He's one of my mentors. I
Had several mentors along the way after I stepped out of the cannabis closet after
24 years in health care and leaving the corporate corruption. I
Pushed legal pills on geriatric patients and held their hands as they died
It was a shame what the nursing society did to those patients
Knowing that oxycontin killed him and the plant could have saved him I
Watched my husband drool on himself when oxycontin came out because he was one of the test patients that got to try it out
Our children played in the yard while their dad drooled in the chair. I
Said no more. I talked to his doctor and we started him on cannabis. He got off all the narcotics except for one
He was on six
He had back surgery and used cannabis and one narcotic he still uses that one narcotic to this day
and
cannabis
He's a functioning father and grandfather
He grows our medicine
He
Does not rely on the government to pay over
$12,000 a month on pharmaceuticals under the Oregon health plan like they used to
Our resources in this state are wasted
Because our federal government refuses to take this off of the scheduling as a one
It's wrong. We have to change it
So all of you heard today about the legislators
We're active there in Salem. We've been there for weeks now Anthony Taylor and Anthony Johnson and myself have been there
Many of you have been watching the hearings on
Your monitors
your phones
Whatever you've been doing to watch. Thank you. Whatever you've been doing to communicate. Thank you. We need more of you to communicate
They are listening to us Monday they are going to pass
844 Senate bill 844 is gonna get passed. The governor has written a letter Kate Brown
Expressing her opinions about how she feels about the seed to sale
tracking
Many of you can read that letter yourselves on dip for
If not, you can contact me on Facebook and I'll forward you that letter
Right now as it stands
When you harvest you can keep all of your weight
There are also is now no definition to an immature plant
No
You can keep all your clones. No limit on clones you guys. That's huge
Those are big wins for the medical marijuana community
Keep your weight unlimited amount of clones
Another big win for us is cities are not allowed to ban us. They can only zone us
on your medical marijuana facilities
They cannot ban us. That's huge
We fought hard the city I live in Medford, Oregon you suck
You suck hard you raided my facility and you shut off medicine to over 3,000 patients
Some of those patients have died since you shut my facility off
From cancer this week we lost Jesse
Who was an advocate for PTSD and even sat on a panel at Southern Oregon University
With Peter Buckley and Paul Stanford and myself
Advocating
To get the law changed and change the law we did and we qualified PTSD in this state
May Jesse rest in peace. I
Have five weeks to go and my felony will be turned over to a misdemeanor. It's been 11 months of bench probation
I was able to keep my patient card and my son became my grower
We even got our guns back
In two more years I
Get to have my record expunged and I can get my concealed handgun carry back to I
Want to give you all hope
that lose hope at times
I
That lose hope at times
Don't ever lose hope there is hope in this plant there is life in this plant this plant cured Michaela and
This plant cured me
Don't lose hope in this plant
This plant is love
This plant is life
Have a great March and have a great day. Thank you for welcoming to Portland
