We are navigating the waters at the Department of Agriculture and looking at developing rules.
And so we're very interested in learning from those that have experience in industrial hemp
and how we can make the rules here in the state common sense and work for farmers and handlers.
So I'll just give a little overview of the history, kind of where we are in Oregon.
Senator Krasansky's bill, as Eric mentioned, passed the Oregon legislature in 2009.
And I think we've talked about it and most of you in the room are familiar,
the Department of Agriculture did not move forward at that time in promulgating rules because of the quasi-legal status.
There was some concern that given the Controlled Substances Act and the need for a DEA permit
and the illegality in most cases for you to grow hemp, we didn't want to be licensing farmers to be able to grow it
if it was putting them in jeopardy under federal law as well as us as the state agency.
So when the Washington and Colorado electorates passed their legislation last year,
we put together an internal team to start looking at if we had medical marijuana in Oregon,
if we had marijuana for personal use that would be legalized in Oregon, would that change what we could do?
And then we saw the August 29th Department of Justice memo that Congressman mentioned
that had how states can move forward and the eight principles for a robust enforcement system that the Department of Justice would be expecting.
And so we've looked at that and we've been looking at moving forward.
And so where we are now is we've developed a rules advisory committee.
Like I said, like any legislation that we do, or not legislation, sorry, any rulemaking that we do,
we always want to make sure that it's going to be applicable and common sense for the actual producers and handlers.
So the Oregon law focuses on licensing and permitting of growers and handlers.
I brought a copy of it, but I don't know if most of you have probably seen it.
And I can certainly provide copies if you guys need it.
But the essential elements of the way the Oregon statute reads is that it asks the Department of Agriculture to license on a three-year basis growers and handlers of industrial hemp.
And so what that means is, obviously growers I think is the self-explanatory piece,
but handlers would be the first handler, the person who would be receiving the raw agricultural product and processing it.
As the Congressman mentioned, processed hemp products are legal for interstate commerce.
And there's not an issue there, but it's the seed going to a processor who can process it for oil that would have to be licensed.
And then there's also a permitting process, also a three-year permit that would allow seed dealers so that we could have seed,
viable seed be able to be sold for growing it.
Currently under the Controlled Substances Act, only sterilized seed so that you couldn't grow is allowed to be sold.
So that's what the Oregon law focuses on.
It also, the Congressman mentioned the definition of industrial hemp, which is actually in our state statute at the 0.3% of THC.
And so there would have to be inspections where we would take samples of the crop and test those for THC content
to ensure that it was below the 0.3%.
So that's what we're dealing with, and we'll be promulgating rules around that.
The rules will kind of focus on application for licenses, what we need to get in order to issue those licenses and permits,
the inspection procedures, sampling procedures, how often, at what time in the growing process would we need to do that.
Obviously fees, it would have to be a fee-supported program,
so we'll have to look at the fiscal impact of the department as well as the users.
And then also things like tolerances.
So if 0.3% is the definition in our statute, what is the tolerance as we test, and how close can we test it?
What part per million level are we going down to and what we need to go down to?
So those kinds of things are what we'll be working on with our Rules Advisory Committee.
We have started to contact people for the Rules Advisory Committee.
Under Oregon State Administrative Procedures Law that directs us on how we develop administrative rules,
Rules Advisory Committees are generally mostly for fiscal impact.
That's what they're supposed to be used for, but we will obviously be using our committee and leaning on them heavily
to help in the practical application and the economic application.
And so we've tried to get a couple of growers, a couple of handlers, the Farm Bureau,
we have a representative from Oregon Senator Prasansky's office and OSU, we've asked Russ to be on the panel,
so that we can have those experts weigh in.
And then as we meet with that committee, and we're hoping to do that in early December,
then the rules process is such that we would have an open comment period and a hearing,
potentially multiple hearings if we feel the need to, but we put out the draft rules
and then have an open comment period where we would take comments, review those comments,
and see if any changes need to be made before the rule went into effect.
We have said, I think there was an Oregonian article this week,
that we would like to have the rule in place by the spring planting season.
That's a very aggressive timeline and we'll be working on that.
That's why we're getting started in early December.
So we hope to have rules out for comment by the first quarter of next year.
I think that's mostly what I have.
Oh, sorry, one more thing. This is probably our most important thing.
As part of our rules advisory committee, one of the things that we are looking for,
so if anyone in this room knows of someone or is somebody who is a fiber handler,
a first handler of fiber, we have a couple of representatives on our committee
that can do the oil squeezing and handling of the seed,
but we don't have anyone at this point that can process the fiber.
We'd certainly like to hear that point of view because there's a lot of fiber, as we know,
that will be produced.
