I am the vice president of a civil rights group called the Human Solution International.
We are a group that believes that nobody should go to jail or die for our plant.
So today I brought with you guys some of my members from Washington.
We've got Tony here and Adam.
And all together around the nation, internationally, we are working to end Prohibition 2014 by
delivering support right to the front lines of where this war is affecting us the most
regarding our defendants and our prisoners.
Right now in the United States of America, while we call it legal in all these states,
we still have over 50 people serving life sentences for marijuana.
And they will never get out.
We also have defendants right here in Oregon facing time, jail time, prison time.
We have two chapters now in Oregon.
So I'm going to invite you guys to get involved.
I'm going to invite you guys to please come out to the courtrooms when we have hearings,
when people are at risk of going to jail.
I'm going to invite you guys to know that we have people right here in your state that
are in jail for marijuana.
One being my dad's business partner, Chris Williams.
Okay, if you guys don't know who I am, my name is Kristen Flohr and I am the Vice President
of the Human Solution International.
Because my father, he died a couple years ago, a very tormenting and nasty, nasty, nasty
death in federal custody shackled to a hospital bed because our plant is still federally illegal.
So while we celebrate all these laws, we have a nasty federal law that will shackle
us and put us in prison for the rest of our lives just by following these laws because
they contradict each other.
When my dad died, he died with broken ribs, undiagnosed colon cancer, liver failure, all
kinds of nasty things happened to him.
Why?
They kept my mom in prison as well.
And all they did is own a company and follow the state laws in Montana.
His business partner right here, he went to trial.
The jury didn't even know he was a caregiver, how many people he helped because they don't
allow state laws in federal court.
My dad's other two business partners testified against him.
So how are we going to end Prohibition 2015?
We are not going to snitch on each other, we're not going to cooperate with the government
and give them our information.
In fact, we're going to stand up for each other, we're going to go to the courtrooms,
we're going to wear these ribbons, these ribbons that you see me wearing, that means that nobody
deserves to go to jail for a plant.
We're going to wear them in the courtroom so the judges, the prosecutors, and the jury
sees them.
We're going to know about our jury rights, that's your power to say not guilty.
If you think a law is bad and you're a juror, you have a right not to only judge if the
law has been broken, but to judge that law.
And if you think it's a bad law, you can say not guilty and refuse to send somebody to
jail for a victimless crime.
That's something they won't teach you in schools, that we have to teach each other.
So we're going to end prohibition through, one, court support, two, jury nullification
and educating about it, and number three, we're going to defend our prisoners.
We're going to educate about our prisoners and let people know that they're working as
slaves for the top 1% of our nation in private prisons and they are killing them if they
can't work for them and they're paying less than 15, 20 cents an hour.
So I'm going to urge you guys to get involved with the Human Solution.
We just started a chapter in Kenya, Africa.
We're very excited to be in prohibition on a national level.
So please, go to our website, www.thsintl.org.
Find out how you can help volunteer, start a chapter, come to a couple chapter meetings.
We have Becca and we have Mindy and they started a chapter here and they're meeting every month.
You can come out and find out what's going on in your community.
You can read the Oregon Leaf.
Right now the Human Solution delivers all the news from the front lines in a new magazine
that's just been delivered all across your state in the Oregon Leaf.
You can find out all the current news right there.
You can go to the calendar on our website and find out what defendants in your area
need your support and you can show up.
We have a chapter down in southern Oregon.
Joy Graves, who's one of our defendants, is also leading that chapter.
So you can visit our website, see what's going on in Oregon.
Other than that, know your jury rights.
Also I can also encourage you guys not to just come for our defendants, but you can
actually join as members and be a card-carrying member.
We have a man by the name of Mr. Tommy Chong that we all know very well who is a card-carrying
member of the Human Solution International.
So I can encourage everybody that, tell everybody that nobody, nobody ever deserves to go to
prison for our plant and to pay attention and to help end the war right from the front
lines.
Thank you, you guys.
It's really nice to meet you and I'm excited to be in Oregon.
Thank you.
