I can tell you a couple of plans that I have for the state of Kentucky.
I would appreciate if I get that opportunity.
I'm setting up here with a couple of movers and shakers in the prospect of medical marijuana
and marijuana to people.
I said early on that I wanted to make marijuana legal, but I don't want to make marijuana
legal because eight-year-olds can stand on the street corner and eat a tomato and that's
legal.
I don't want that.
I want some sort of, people ought to be able to grow their own and be regulated by families
if there's any problem with it, bring in social services instead of the cops.
And only that under probable cause.
But if it's going to be commerce in it, the government has the right to license and or
tax it.
They just have that right.
I mean, that's commerce.
They do the same thing with widgets.
So but I want that money.
I don't want it going over to the corporations.
I don't want Friday night sales.
I don't want golden arches.
I don't want clearance sales.
I don't want any advertising encouraging its use.
That's not what we're out here for.
You know, at the same time, I'd like to see the money that's generated go back to the
dealers that people are dealing now.
They're some of the best minds of this generation.
They're running a billion dollar business without a shred of paperwork.
You know, I think it ought to stay in the hands of the people who are putting it out
now.
But I'm also going to put it in the hands of all the sick and dying Kentuckians.
I want to take it out of the hands of the teenagers and put it over to the hands of
the people in the old age homes.
I mean, it would put a smile on their face.
It would increase their appetite and think about the increased visitation by the young
folks.
Hey, let's go see Dad.
You know, the want to I want to educate the people, the kids in the state of Kentucky.
I have plans for doing that.
I'm out here to see if I can raise any money.
I am a criminal defense attorney.
I can also hire any lottery winners out there who need a little consultation.
There is no limit.
There is a limit on a thousand dollar contribution in my race for governor.
But there is no limit on an attorney's fee.
So, anybody who needs any special consultation, I'm the man to do it with.
Money is probably going to be the biggest issue in this race.
We probably need to raise about a half million bucks.
We're at $140,000 right now.
As our numbers begin to climb, I think the money will start to come in.
But this early money is the most important.
So I've got envelopes down here that if you want to make a contribution, you can take
this envelope and fill it out and either mail it to us or give it back to me here tonight.
They're in a box over there.
I have our handouts.
This is our push package.
This is me and my running mate.
I had some people complain about a woman as a running mate.
I said, you're just jealous because she can out ride, out shoot, out fish every one of
you.
And she can.
So she's quite a lady.
And then I have this with me this evening.
This is my autobiography.
It's called The Last Free Man in America Meets the Synthetic Subversion.
It is the story of 40 years of work on my behalf to try to find out just what went wrong
with America.
What went wrong with the concept of individual sovereignty.
And the name of the book is The Last Free Man in America Meets the Synthetic Subversion.
And that's what went wrong.
We were an agrarian society.
We produced it all from the land.
We discovered the plant that was the answer to all our basic needs.
Probably with fuel medicine and food.
And then they discovered petroleum.
And they discovered all the synthetic processes that could be done to extract the products
from petroleum.
And they decided to take the farmer out of competition with them.
Not only in the petrochemical but the pharmaceutical and medicinal aspect.
And so now a great number of our problems are dealt with because both the major parties
that were set up to protect us, both on a national and local level, have been bought
off with the special interest money, extraordinary special interest money, from the people that
I call the petrochemical, pharmaceutical, military, industrial, transnational, corporate,
fascist, elite son of a bitches.
The ones who have never said the pledge of allegiance to the flag of the United States
of America and to the republic for which it stands.
And the ones who view the Constitution and the Bill of Rights as impediments to the implementation
of a new world order and global economy.
And that's just where it's at.
These people are bought off.
The people who are supposed to be protecting us, they're trying to dismantle the Constitution
and our rights just as fast as they can.
Well they ran into a hard road hole in the state of Kentucky if I get to be governor.
And I recognize them for who they are.
Them guys.
And I ain't going to let them guys take over and make a mockery out of the sacrifices of
all the dads and granddads who hit the beaches at Normandy and Iwo Jima so that you wouldn't
have to pee in a cup to hold a job in America.
And we're going to rediscover whether the people, in fact those people died in vain.
Every generation must rewind its own freedoms.
That's what it says here in this little cloud on the front of the book.
You know all the sacrifices that anybody in the past up until the last second of my talking
to you don't count anymore.
It's what you're willing to do from this second forward that's going to decide whether we
still have any freedoms in America.
The reason I became a champion of marijuana is because I was asthmatic all my life.
And I was in and out of the hospital on many occasions.
I was 4th for the Army.
I made the Marines take me by getting a couple of doctors to say I had outgrown it.
I was on paracetamol for six weeks and somebody put some dust in my face and I went into an
asthmatic attack.
I was discharged from paracetamol in the Marines.
I was 19 years old.
I didn't know marijuana cured asthma.
A friend of mine came back from Bangkok, Thailand with some Thai weed and said,
Gatewood, try this.
And I said, isn't that dangerous?
He said, it'll help you.
He had to become a doctor so I trusted him.
I smoked marijuana the first time.
Just like that.
It cured my asthma.
Just like that.
For someone who's gone through a lifetime of 21 years being totally afraid that at any
moment their lungs are going to close up on them, let me tell you, that creates a lot
of free-floating anxiety.
And a lot of fear.
Marijuana cured it.
Just like that.
Because I'll tell you what, marijuana is a gateway drug.
Marijuana is the gateway to existentialism.
When you discover there's more than one reality.
When you discover that there is no just one way of looking at things, there are things
called perspectives.
You discover that you have the widest range of choices you ever imagined you had because
you now understand there's a second way of looking at everything.
You just doubled or tripled or quadrupled the way you can look at things.
It's damn entertaining trying to figure out which one has anything to do with reality.
That's what makes it such a wonderful thing.
It just alters your perspective.
So does getting up and going looking out the window, getting off the couch.
So does thinking.
