It's nice to be in Oregon, where you're about to do something really smart.
And that is to get the police and the authorities of our goofy society out of our lives,
so we can get high and enjoy ourselves without having to worry about these goons in their uniforms.
This, uh...
I've been doing this for a long time. We had our first hippie gathering in Detroit, where I'm from, in 1967.
Just like this.
Well, we didn't have as good of a sound system or a stage.
But then what happened? The police rode down on it.
So there always, uh...
In Ann Arbor, when we used to have free concerts every Sunday,
we used to have to pay off the police to not come onto the site.
They had to stay in the parking lot and take care of the parking traffic.
Because we thought if they came in to the free concerts, they would just kill everybody's high.
And they'd be walking around with their helmets and their guns and their radios and all that horse shit.
So we had to pay them off to keep them outside.
But today, this is a new low for me.
When the hemp stock organization has to pay these guys to come in here and hassle us.
I don't get it.
I think once you legalize it, you get that over with.
I'm all due respect to these guys.
I know they serve an important role as security guards in our society.
But, hey, I feel secure as a motherfucker out here.
You know what I'm saying?
I feel really unsafe with this kind of environment of armed, uniformed characters walking amongst us.
Okay.
I could talk about the police all day, but I'm not going to.
I'm really a poet.
I became an activist because the police wouldn't leave me alone.
I had to fight back.
So that was 50 years ago.
That's a long time ago.
Most of y'all ain't even 50 yet.
So I'm really ecstatic to be here.
And I'd like to give you a few poems, if I could.
I don't want to fuck up your afternoon, but hey, this is what I do and they asked me to be here.
I'd like to start with a prayer inspired by the music of John Coltrane.
What is jazz but spirituals?
Played through saxophones,
Saxophones and trombones.
Spirit voices through metal tubings.
And the terrible repetition of the formal premise is trance-like at its best.
Or boring when the spirit does not move.
Or what is blues but spirituals with the line removed?
That is structurally and in content just a prayer to the gods of daily life.
To ask the blessing that the body of another may lay warm in the bed beside you at night.
And the rent be paid and a meal on the table with the sheriff far away from the scene of the crime.
Or what is jazz but the registration of the human personality in relation to the spiritual?
Stripped of literal meaning but full of sound and portent.
Direct as the voice of the gods.
Spiritual.
