One of the important things that I feel for people to know and one of the main
reasons that I'm doing the things that I do are because of Jack. And for those of
you who are unaware, Jack Herrera is a man that you, if you've had anything to do
with cannabis in about the last 30 years or so, you basically owe this man a big
thank you and unfortunately he is no longer with us to thank. So one of the
things that I wanted to do at this first hemp fest in Tacoma that we're
gonna do this afternoon is we're gonna have a moment of silence for Jack Herrera
420 instead of the usual hemp fest 420 moment which has been surprising quite a
few people today when they've heard about that. They're waiting to hear you
know how many blunts you're gonna be throwing out and I was like absolutely none. We're gonna be
dead quiet for for one moment and we're all gonna pay attention to the people
that have been lost for this movement. Mark Emery is a man that's a sitting in
a prison about 30 miles from where I stand right now and he's in jail.
Actually he's not in jail. He's in a federal prison for selling seeds. This is a
holdover from the Bush era drug war. It's ridiculous. It's ridiculous that Canada
allowed a Canadian citizen to be extradited for a crime that only holds a
$200 fine in his country. At worst, at the absolute worst, he was looking at a $200
fine in his country. They extradited him and gave him to a country, a foreign
country, that is almost, that we're trying to get him life in prison for selling
seeds to a plant that we all know is not harmful, is not going to hurt anybody, and
is not worth life in prison for. And that's that's one of the main main
drives that I've got. If more people can understand just how important
Jack Herrera was and the research that he did and just that the awareness that he
brought to people. One of the things that I found, I'm a 38 year old male, I've been
using cannabis since I was seven years old. When I first read The Emperor Wears
No Clothes, I was 17 years old and it completely changed my outlook and
attitude on cannabis. I had no idea how much information was actually out there
and reading that book and understanding how much research and just devotion you
have to have to find these things that have been deceptively hidden by the
government for decades, that takes some effort and that deserves some
recognition. And I think that a lot of the newer generation of people that are
being exposed to cannabis don't necessarily understand how important the
people are that have gone before you. Because what they're not seeing is how
those people influence people like me, people like you, people like anybody that
does this kind of thing. Anybody that does the you know work for the cannabis
community at the level that I that I feel I do, they know these guys. You know
they treat them with some respect and you think about the history involved. You know
guys like Ed Rosenthal, there's so many people I couldn't name them all.
But all the breeders that have ever come up with anything that you've ever
tried that you've enjoyed or you've heard about or heard, those are the
people that you know you don't necessarily need to go go patting them on
the back or anything but at least give them a little bit of thought instead of
just you know where's your next bag coming from and what's it going to be
and you know strive for some perfection. These people gave a lot over the course
of their lives and it deserves some recognition. This testimony right
here has proved Jack that you might be coming from that you'll never leave us
Love you Jack.
