So, 2015, July 1st, it's legal. We did it. We actually did it. It's done. We're gonna
make it better. Russ talked about all the areas that we've got to make better and
Russ has actually got my banner. Thanks, Russ. I've gone in the course of my
career, I've been doing marijuana politics, marijuana policy, and marijuana
law for the last 15 plus years. I've gone in the course of my career from doing
almost exclusively criminal defense. Every day I would wake up and deal with
somebody who had gotten busted, somebody who had to talk to the police,
somebody who had a friend in jail, a parent in jail, a child in jail. There
were so many people every day who came to me because somebody was in jail, was
in custody, was facing court, was facing jail, was facing prison, was facing trial.
I can tell you today, I have less than 10 criminal cases right now. Okay? That's a
big change. Most of the work I do at this point isn't for people who are looking
at going to prison. It's for people who are looking at opening a business, paying
their taxes, being an above-board member of society who can walk into an
establishment and say, yeah, I'm in the marijuana industry. That's what I do.
And that change in the last 15 years has been monumental. I remember when
people, even mentioning the word marijuana, people would walk away from
you. People would literally distance themselves from you in public. The other
day I was on a flight. I was coming back from Colorado. I was coming back from the
High Times Cannabis Cup. And someone on the plane said, hey, I think someone has a
skunk on board. And called a flight attendant. It was a very nice
older lady. And she said, I think there's a skunk on the plane. And the gentleman
behind her started laughing. And about half the plane started laughing. Because
almost everyone on that flight was coming back from Denver, from the cup, to
Portland. And the flight attendant looked around and she said, now, it's
illegal to have marijuana on the plane. But I'm sure that everyone who had
marijuana back in Denver left it in Denver. And we all went, yes, flight
attendant, of course we left our marijuana back in Denver. And someone
explained to this very nice lady, that's what marijuana smelled like. And we all
went about our day and laughed. No air marshal jumped up. Nobody was in
handcuffs. Nobody was on the ground being searched. Nobody was detained from the
flight. None of those things happened. And ten years ago, all those things would
have been happening. Okay? So, I want to tell you today, I am so happy to be here.
I'm so happy to have spent time, effort, and energy with all of you wonderful
people getting to where we are. And I'm so, thank you, and I'm so happy that
moving forward, we're gonna make things better. Legalization is gonna come.
Legalization is gonna get better each and every year. And it's gonna require
each and every one of you who's here today, to do the same thing that we've
been doing for years and years and decades. And that's fight. And that's
stand up and say, you know what? We're responsible, productive members of
society. We choose to use marijuana. We may use that instead of something else.
We may drink a beer and have a joint sometimes. But for everybody who wants to
be a responsible adult marijuana consumer, this is what freedom is gonna
look like. It's gonna look like a world where you don't have to look over your
shoulder. It's gonna look like a world where you don't have to call me at 3 a.m.
and have someone bail you out of jail because you had 29 grams instead of 28.3.
That was a felony last year. Okay? A felony. That meant that you were a felon
for a very long time in the state of Oregon. You were on probation. You were
paying fines. You were paying in a cup. As of July 1st, you're gonna have a half
pound of marijuana in your home. And I agree with the rest 100%. Okay? I think
marijuana consumers should be treated equally. I think we should have the same
rights. And that's gonna take some time. But you also need to remember there are
places in this country where 8 ounces of marijuana will send you to fucking
prison. Okay? And we're gonna be in a place where that's not gonna happen. And
what we've got to do is we've got to work here to make it better. And for
those of us, and I don't know if you know this, but given I'm wearing a seersucker
suit, you might have guessed I'm from the South. I'm originally from North
Carolina. There are places where marijuana is still deeply illegal. The
amount of marijuana that you're allowed to possess in this state can send you to
prison for the rest of your natural life in the state of Mississippi. Okay? No
parole. No probation. No nothing. You're going to prison and you're staying there
for the rest of your life. So for everyone who's lived here, everyone who's
grown up here, everyone who's worked so hard here, whenever you talk to someone
who's not from here, make sure you explain to them that it's possible. It's
workable. You can make changes. We saw Oklahoma and Georgia both pass medical
marijuana bills this year. Let me repeat that. Oklahoma. Georgia. Both southern
states. States that we did not expect to see any traction. And they're not perfect
bills. Don't get me wrong. I don't want to pretend they are. But change does not
come in one fell swoop. Okay? Things are made day by day. This plaza was not made
by every single one of these bricks instantly materializing in front of us.
Okay? This plaza was made by people, one brick at a time, putting these bricks in
place. And the only way that we move forward, the only way that we make this
happen, is that each and every one of us works each day to make things a little
better. Every day I wake up and I deal with marijuana law. There is not a day of
my life that I have not thought about or dealt with marijuana. Okay? And I'm not
asking everybody here to do that. I'm not asking everybody here to be an activist
every single day for eight hours a day. But if you can be an activist for five
minutes a day, even something as simple as calling your elected representative
when you're listening to Russ's show, something as simple as sending an email
once a week, you know what? And if you can't do that, donate some money. Put it
on your credit card. Make it an automatic deposit. Make it an automatic every month
you don't have to think about it. What is it worth to be able to walk down the
street, have an ounce of marijuana in your pocket, and never have to think
about a cop arresting you ever again? Okay? That's important. Finally, there are
still things that can get you arrested. There are still crimes. Most of the
people I represent, most of the cases I deal with, they are high-level cases.
They are the sort of cases that most of you will never contemplate, will never
consider. But frankly, if you've ever bought marijuana on the black market or
you've ever received marijuana, it had to come from somewhere. Someone had to grow
it. Someone had to make it. And there's a bunch of people who've been taking a lot
of risks over the years. And a lot of those people are the people I represent
and the people I still represent. So one thing I want to remind everybody of is
how to be safe, how to stay out of trouble. I'm sure most of you have seen
one of my cards or one of my lighters, or you've seen Paul's card, you've seen
Paul's lighter. And I just want to remind everybody of what it says. Because
frankly, even if you do have a legal amount of marijuana in your pocket, it
doesn't mean you've got to consent to a police search. It doesn't mean you've
got to talk to him or deal with him if you don't want to. I always tell people,
remember to be polite, and we're gonna go through it. So, am I free to go, officer?
If I am being detained, I do not consent to any searches. And I want to speak to
my attorney prior to answering any questions. I give these away. I put myself
out of business every day and that's my goal. One day I hope to not have to do
this for criminals. I hope to be doing this for law-abiding citizens who want
to make the world a better place and share with their community. So, remember
this, if you need a lighter, grab them from the table. I give them away for free.
