I work with the THCF clinic and for me, I call myself Sister Teva and everybody laughs,
but you know I really am a priestess. I'm a totally high priestess and I am actually
trained as a Wiccan in a very radical tradition called the reclaiming tradition where we blend
our politics and our spirituality and that's why I do this for a living because I not only believe
in it but it's also a spiritual calling for me. And you know Wiccans believe that the sacred is
in everything, in each person, in each living thing, in the earth, even in inanimate objects
that we are all part of the sacred. And there was a very fine poem written some years ago by a woman
called the charge of the goddess and in there it says that you know, it says if that's what
you seek you find not within yourself you will never find it without. And I guess that's what
I wanted to say today that you know we're all seeking, we all follow cannabis for many reasons,
it's a healer in many ways. Some of us use it to heal our bodies, some of us use it to heal
our spirits, our emotions, or the wounds that we've been accumulated during our lives. But I think it's
really important to use it to find your truth and to act on that truth. Over and over from this stage
all weekend people have been telling you how you can get involved. We're not just saying that because
we want to like you know stand up here and talk to you. We really mean it. Everybody who's involved
in this movement, who you've seen up here this weekend, who you've seen out there working in the
booths and making this event a reality, everybody was once just a person like you who smoked pot
and thought it was cool and you really wish it wasn't illegal but you weren't quite sure what to
do. And now we're all, we've all walked down this road and we want you to join us because that's how
it's going to become a reality. That's how this sacrament, this thing that heals us, that keeps
us going, that raises our spirits, that helps us to bond to one another, remember how who we are.
It's in our control to make it legal. It's in our hands and we all have to do something. So don't
just go home and think hey that was a really fun festival. I can hardly wait till next year and you
know sit down and smoke your joint and sort of forget all about it. We need you to be a part of
this movement. Every single one of you have something that you can give and I'm asking you
now to give it and I'd like to paraphrase John Kennedy when he said ask not what your country
can do for you, ask what you can do for your country. And I'd like to tell you ask not what
Bud can do for you, ask what you can do for Bud.
And then do it. You know it's not right. Everybody knows about the law of karma and we know what
people, you know what constitutes a person of character in this society. It's not right to take
and take and take and never give back. We all know that. So it's time to give back. Everybody out there
I want you to think about what can I do even if you have very limited money and very limited time
and very limited resources you can do something to make this movement a reality. To make real
legalization, normalization, decriminalization possible. To make it a reality in our lifetimes.
You know I don't want to be 90 years old and still have not accomplished this. It's time folks. I'm
looking at every single one of you out there. I'm talking to you out there in the tie-dye, out there
in the shorts, with your sunglasses on. You, talking to you. Make it a reality. Join with your brothers
and sisters. Make this a real heaven on earth because we have the power. Blessing be.
