I am, as you heard, running for Vice President of the United States of America.
I am going to win this election with your help.
The most qualified person to be President of the United States that I know of
is a fellow by the name of Governor Gary Johnson from New Mexico.
Governor Gary Johnson has actually done this.
While he was governor, he stood up in 1999 and said the obvious.
The nation's war on drugs is not working and it must be changed.
The man has courage, he has insight, he has integrity, and he goes for it.
Support Governor Gary Johnson for President. You will not go wrong.
And if that's not enough, and it should be, but if that's not enough,
understand that you can elect Romney, you can elect Obama.
They're the same. I call them Robomney. They're the same.
If we do elect either of them, there won't be any medical marijuana dispensaries
in our country within a year or two from now. None.
It's out of control. We need to elect Governor Gary Johnson.
It's the only chance for survival for medical marijuana dispensaries in our country.
In addition, something hugely important, we as a candidacy have endorsed
the initiative here in Oregon, Initiative 80, to treat marijuana like alcohol.
We need to get this word out. And we can't do it alone.
You can't do it alone, but together we can get this done.
Measure 80 has got to pass.
That's not loud enough. I said, did you hear me? Measure 80 has got to pass.
Same thing in Washington. We've endorsed both of those initiatives.
Same thing in Colorado. We've endorsed that initiative there as well.
We're going to put it right to the federal government.
The people of these states demand that they be allowed to choose the way to treat marijuana.
And I say, let's treat it just like my drug of choice.
Let's treat it just like wine. That's the answer to go for.
I'm not sure you're convinced. That's what we need to go for.
And for heaven's sake, let's treat hemp like cotton.
Let's just treat hemp, which has valuable uses, industrial uses, all around the nation.
We are actually squandering this opportunity.
We're importing a billion dollars worth of hemp every year from that radical country north of us called Canada.
And we're cheating our own people.
While we're at it, let's treat hemp like cotton.
For heaven's sake, let's get this done.
Visit our website, GaryJohnson2012.com.
GaryJohnson2012.com.
You will like what you see.
And if you do, and when you do, take it personally.
Pass that link on to your email world.
If you take it personally, endorse this candidacy, vote away from Grosbondy,
and vote for somebody that you actually can vote for,
understanding that voting for the lesser of two evils, you still get evil, don't you?
Vote for Governor Gary Johnson, someone that you can vote for.
Tell your friends, tell your acquaintances, tell your family to do the same thing.
I'm here to tell you, help is on the way.
Vote for ADE, vote for these initiatives in Colorado and Washington,
and for heaven's sake, you'll always be proud to have voted for Governor Gary Johnson and Judge Jim Gray.
Go get them. Thank you all.
Let's make this thing happen. Thanks a lot.
