These boys here, they're about ready to perform for you.
You're in for a treat.
I've been listening to them, well, basically my whole life,
their whole life anyway,
because I've been listening to them since they were wee little lads.
They've been playing in Milwaukee area for, God, years now.
So, before my voice goes totally away,
I want to give this over to probably the best band in Portland right now,
Bad Habitat, guys.
Yo, yo, put your hands up.
Everybody outside, go ahead and put your hands up.
Oh yeah, gonna freestyle when I'm coming in,
when I be spitting it and I'm loving it.
We at the Global Cannabis March, I'm buffing it.
All you beautiful faces out there, go ahead and buffing it.
I get down like that, I keep vibing like that.
These everybody wanna see me when I'm going off the top of the cap.
And I freestyle for y'all,
cause I don't need no bitch coming for my jaw.
Drew, why don't you take on the mic?
Keep on spitting while we running it right.
Yeah, loving it light, and I'm loving the night.
But it's light outside, so I'm loving it right.
And I see the camera focusing in,
while I'm hoping to see if these motherfuckers wanna see me when I'm going off the lin.
Yeah, put your hands up now,
cause this is freestyle, it's off the top of the dome now.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Everybody outside, put your hands up.
Everybody outside, put your hands up.
If you're smoking on that gram, put your hands up.
Everybody outside, put your hands up.
All you beautiful people, just put your hands up.
Everybody outside, put your hands up.
And if you're smoking on that gram, put your hands up.
Everybody just go ahead and put your hands up.
I'm trying to be selfish, sometimes I can't help it.
I always want seconds after my first help.
But like no matter how I'm doing, I got room for improvement.
And I don't know why I do it in the first place.
It's the worst case of hunger that you ever seen.
Like I never ate, yeah.
So forget what you're telling me.
Work hard, they say that I'll reap the rewards.
But when I'm seeing the score, I start feeding for more.
And life ain't always fair, ask if eating's your core.
Or ask anybody who's spent more than a week being poor.
Not everybody you meet is sleeping at doors.
And sometimes a bottle of rum is keeping you warm.
If you get it, don't forget it.
If you're sick of how you're living, you got two choices.
Get in the system or fight against it.
Got my mind made up, I'm just waiting for yours.
Take the bull by the horns and tell him you want more.
Everybody outside, put your hands up.
All the ladies outside, put your hands up.
All the hustlers outside, put your clams up.
Everybody, put your goddamn hands up.
Everybody outside, put your hands up.
All the ladies outside, put your hands up.
All the hustlers outside, put your hands up.
Everybody, put your goddamn hands up.
You better respect it, I carry the message.
I carry the essence, I bury it and cease it.
A matter of seconds.
I'm proud of the press, they say I didn't have a slap on my racket.
The map has invented you, grabbing a medic,
Matt's gonna set it.
Strike with a vengeance if you have to pretend.
And if you never really meant it, then you live to regret it.
So stop being a peasant and start reading the credits.
I gotta lead to the best scene, we demons are relics.
And you'll be tired from your grip, you'll recover with this.
We all up in this shit, we all up in the bitch.
Yeah, come on, everybody at Pioneer Square right there.
Uh, put your hands up.
Everybody outside, put your hands up.
All the ladies outside, put your hands up.
Yeah, how y'all feeling out there?
Y'all feeling good?
We're just getting warmed up.
It's a warm up track for y'all.
It's a beautiful day to be doing an outdoor show.
