And now, here's the host of the show, Paul Stanford and Paul Loney.
Hello and welcome to another exciting edition of Cannabis Common Sense, a show that tells
you the truth about marijuana.
Our show is a production of our political committee that's campaigned for the restoration
and regulation of hemp.
And we are the sponsors of an initiative petition, the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act, right here.
It's an initiative petition that our fellow chief petitioner and treasurer Paul Loney
will describe now.
Thanks Paul and hello everyone.
The ballot title that we have for the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act is, Permit Sale of Marijuana
to Adults through State Liquor Stores.
The yes vote, Permit State License Cultivation Sale of Marijuana for Medical Purposes and
to Adults.
The summary, which is quite comprehensive and quite good, so I'll read it here to you
folks.
I hope you don't mind that.
It enforces state local laws on marijuana except for driving the influence of intoxicant
laws.
It directs the Oregon Liquor Control Commission to license marijuana cultivation by qualified
persons and to purchase entire crop.
Commission sells marijuana at cost to pharmacies and medical research facilities for medical
purposes and to qualified adults for profit through state liquor stores.
Ninety percent of the net proceeds go to the state general fund.
Smaller percentages for drug abuse, education, treatment, promotion of certain hemp products.
Bans sales to and possession by minors.
Bans public consumption except where signs permit and minors barred.
Provides penalties.
And once again, I think the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act is extremely well written.
We've got a great ballot title.
We want you folks to help us go out there and get signatures and get to sign the ballot
and vote for it.
And what's our phone number, Paul?
The phone number is, and we're waiting to take your call right now, even though you
might get voicemail, it's 235-4606.
Now that's in the Portland area.
If you're outside the Portland area, you need to dial 503-235-4606.
That ballot title and summary that Paul Loney just read is written by the Attorney General
and Secretary of State's office to meet certain statutory requirements to describe the actual
legislation.
The legislation itself is much longer and more detailed, but that's what they wrote.
Yeah, and it's, like I say, it's a real good one.
I mean, it is good.
It's good that we keep the driving influence of intoxicants laws, because we all believe
in, at least all of us who are volunteering for the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act, that you
shouldn't drive on the influence of anything.
And so we want to make sure those laws are in there.
We don't want anybody to say at all, we're promoting irresponsible use.
We are, and not at all, we are promoting responsible use of cannabis.
And then it directs the Oregon Liquor Control Commission to license marijuana cultivation
for qualified persons and for them to purchase the entire crop.
And that's the regulation.
It's quite that way.
It's a well-regulated system that it can't go awry, that it limits the black market,
if not totally wipe out the black market.
I think it would pretty much eliminate the black market.
Maybe not entirely, but I'd say 99.9% of the black market would be gone.
It would license people to grow the drug for sales to the Oregon Liquor Control Commission.
The Oregon Liquor Control Commission would then put it in their state liquor stores,
and also the liquor stores would put it in local bars and shops that have a license that
bars the entry of minors so that people under 21 couldn't come in to a place where marijuana
was being smoked anymore.
Then they can go into a bar that's serving hard liquor drinks or things like that.
It would be very similar to that.
And it would tax the recreational sales of marijuana through these liquor stores and
bars, but it would allow untaxed medical marijuana prescriptions to people through
pharmacies so that sick people could get the medicine they need.
Marijuana is a very useful medicine in many different conditions.
It's been used for medicine going back over 6,000 years.
The oldest written texts that talked about different medicines, one of the Vedas from
northern India, mentioned marijuana for many different ailments.
It's all throughout recorded history that we have, all societies have used cannabis
as a medicine because they've all found it to be such a wonderful medicine.
Even in this century here in the U.S., we've used it as a medicine.
At the beginning of the century, all the way up to the 1920s, it wasn't until marijuana
prohibition came in that we stopped using it as a medicine.
Even now, of course, the federal government allows a few people to use it as a medicine
before they put a stop to it.
People have to use the entire herb instead of just the pill form that the government
says will work.
Yeah, the pill form is just one component of marijuana.
There are at least three other medicinal components in marijuana outside of the pills.
What the pills have is THC or tetrahydrocannabinol.
That's sold under the brand name Maranol.
That is just one of the components, the THC.
There's also CBD and CBC and a couple of others.
CBD is a dilator, lowers blood pressure, it stops infections, and it dilates blood waste,
so it lowers blood pressure, and bronchial passageways.
That's one of the reasons that it's been useful as a treatment for asthma.
Even though smoking something doesn't seem like it would be good for asthma, it is, in
fact, been used traditionally for asthma because it dries up the liquids and it also dilates
or makes larger the passageways.
Then there's CBC, cannabichromine, that's an antispastic agent.
It's not psychoactive at all, the way THC and CBD are both psychoactive or give you
a response that makes you high, but CBC isn't.
It's an antispastic agent that stops tremors.
People with multiple sclerosis or other problems find it very, very useful.
This goes to show that there's these multitude of active agents in cannabis.
It falls along a lot with what herbal medicine people talk about when they say you have to
take the entire herb for medicine, that natural path.
Talk about taking the entire herb for the medicine and not just one single component,
which is what they wanted to do with Maranol.
This plant has evolved through literally thousands of years and so everything's together
and we've used this medicine that way forever because one part balances out the other.
Because you have an antispasmodic, but you need to be able to transport that to all parts
of your body and so when it dilates it, it gets the blood flowing much more smoothly
through the body.
It transports it to all parts of the body, the muscles easily.
A lot of these drugs that we take from the chemical pharmaceutical industry, the problem
is how do we get it from our stomachs if we swallow it to our muscles?
That's the hardest part they have is doing that or some drugs we inject.
That takes a little quicker, but normally we just swallow all of our drugs from the
pharmaceutical industry and it's not the same thing as inhaling something because it meets
that blood interface in the lungs and then very easily is transported in a very smooth
route for the entire body.
It's true.
When you look at Maranol, which is just that single component THC, it doesn't have the
full effects of the entire herb.
When you look at that pill, the small ones, the 250 milligram ones are $6 each in pharmacies
and the larger ones, 1,000 milligrams, those are $15.
Now if you're suffering from chemotherapy as a treatment for nausea and you have, for
cancer I mean, you have nausea, you're going to throw up two or three of those pills before
you get it down and once you finally do get one of those pills down because it has to
go through your intestinal tract, it takes up to an hour to take effect where about less
than a dime, maybe a nickel's worth of marijuana in a legal environment, that two puffs and
you don't throw up those puffs obviously and you've lost the nausea.
You're not throwing up.
You're not in agony anymore and that's what the prohibition of marijuana as a medicine
is doing.
In California and Arizona, they passed medical marijuana initiatives overwhelmingly and the
federal government has come in and said that they're going to stop doctors from letting
that go into effect.
Well, OCTA was written specifically to be upheld in federal court so that the federal
government can't stop it from taking effect and by doing that, we think that we'll allow
patients to access medicine much more reasonably through pharmacies.
Exactly.
We're going to, through Oregon Chemist Tax Act, we're going to say folks, it's going
to be sold at cost to patients, to people who have prescriptions from their doctor and
so the doctor can treat the whole patient and not have to worry about, oh, are you able
to get the stuff illegally because there are doctors out there who will tell their patients
with multiple sclerosis that they have to, I can't give it to you and I can't really
write it down, but you really should try and smoke some cannabis because it has beneficial
effect for people with multiple sclerosis.
Those people there, those people, if they can smoke the cannabis, they can live productive
lives and they have no problems holding down jobs and taking care of their family, taking
care of their home, driving a car and all the rest of it, but if they start to get
the spasms, then they can't keep their job, they can't take care of their family and they're
no longer a productive member of society. They become, quote unquote, a burden and the
rest of us have to pay for it and that's not what we want.
Right. Our initiative would allow farmers to grow the drug and then the central state
commission would distribute it at a tax profit to adults in liquor stores, those over the
age of 21. I think that will take it out of the hands of the black market and remove the
profit motive. Then it will allow doctors to prescribe it through pharmacies. Now, if
you'd like to help us put this on the ballot, we need you to call us and get a copy of our
petition. You can do that by calling us at 235-4606. You're in the Portland area, 235-4606.
You can call any time. We have voicemail hooked up there, so leave your name and address or
if you have an internet connection, you can get it on the internet by looking at our website.
That's at www.crrh.org. That's Campaign for the Restoration and Regulation of Hemp, the
name of our PAC, www.crrh.org. And currently, those pills cost so much and we see the people
throwing up this maranol when just a small amount of cannabis in a smoked form would
ease their suffering immediately, but the government doesn't want to see that happen.
They currently classify marijuana as a Schedule I drug with no medical benefits, but studies
have been done. In fact, one of them was published in the Journal of Internal Medicine where
they surveyed oncologists or cancer doctors. And in surveying those oncologists, they asked
them if marijuana were legally available, would you prescribe it to your patients? Now,
these oncologists are treating people who have cancer and those doctors said, 54% of
them said that yes, they would prescribe marijuana if it were medicinally available. Why does
the government think that it knows better than these professional oncologists, cancer
doctors? I think it's because they have an economic interest in the continuation of prohibition.
But those same doctors, 54% said they would prescribe it, 48% said they already had. They'd
already broken the law and recommended that their patients use marijuana and get it illegally.
And that was in a survey of all of the oncologists across the country.
Yeah, and I think that's just fabulous that these doctors are being honest about it out
there, telling their patients that, look, I can say I can't write a prescription for
you and I can't give you any, but you should really think about this because I've had other
patients of mine come in and say, yeah, I was having all sorts of problems until I tried
cannabis and then it was wonderful. And these people who are sick, I mean, they're not out
to get high or to get stoned, quote, unquote. They're there to be able to feel better, to
be able to function as a normal human being, as a normal adult in our society. And that's
what all of us want. We all want to be able to function the way we can to our best of
our abilities and to contribute to our best of our abilities. And the government just
wants to control so much that they won't let us do that. And this is a big thing under
control here. The government doesn't want us to think for ourselves, doesn't want people
to realize that they can get a drug for pennies, literally pennies, that will take care of
lots of problems. I mean, it's not a drug, it's not a cure-all, it's not a wonder drug.
It's just one thing that can be used on the entire part for your health regime if you're
ill. But it's definitely a good tool.
Yeah, it's one thing that doctors should have access to. And currently, doctors have to
break the law to recommend it to patients. And they realize that if they prescribe this
little pill that's available today, that it's difficult for people who have nausea
or are having spasms to keep those pills down. And those pills are incredibly expensive.
They benefit the pharmaceutical industries, where by putting marijuana at cost in pharmacies,
which is what the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act will do, it's going to make it a lot cheaper
for people who have these illnesses to deal with them. And that's what we're trying to
do.
In California and Arizona, in November of 1996, those states overwhelmingly passed marijuana
medical initiatives. The one in Arizona was actually backed by two former senators, Senator
Barry Goldwater, one of the founding fathers of Republican conservatism, and Senator Dennis
DeConsini. Both of them backed that. And then up in Washington state, coming up this year,
just in another month and a half now, they have I-685, the Drug Medicalization Act, which
will also allow doctors to prescribe marijuana. So if you're watching us up in Vancouver,
we urge you to vote yes on I-685, because that's on your ballot this November, this
year, 1997. And it's there for you to take advantage of. If you live here in Oregon,
give us a call. Help us put the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act on the ballot. And get our petitions.
You can call us at 235-4606. If you're outside the Portland area, that's 503-235-4606.
Exactly. Stand up for your medical rights and help us get this on the ballot. Another
thing that this is all about is your medical rights. It's about your civil rights. But
choosing to be able to take whatever medications you want. The whole thing about marijuana
and little pills, if we just stop and think about it for a minute, here's something that
obviously works, and these pharmaceutical companies know it works, and the government
knows it works. But instead of just allowing a plant, they transform it into a pill. I
mean, why would you even need a pill when you already have a perfectly good system out
there for it? It just doesn't make any sense at all to me. Other than the fact that, you
know, obviously the people can make money off it, the pharmaceutical industry. But it's
just so, to me, it's just any common sense, you know, that we don't need any more surveys
or tests to see whether or not marijuana works as a medicine. We know it does. Otherwise,
why would Marinol be out there? Why would our government allow Marinol to be prescribed?
So we know it works.
Yeah, exactly. It is a very useful medical preparation. And like Paul Loney just pointed
out, it's quite hypocritical to say it doesn't have medical effects when they allow this
pharmaceutical pill that's so expensive to be out on the market when the inexpensive
herb could replace it. And we hope you'll get involved in the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act
and try to stop this madness. Help us put this on the ballot by giving us a call today,
right away at 235-4606.
Yeah, it's just amazing. I mean, if you do any kind of research at all out there, what
the benefits are in Jamaica, you know, where there's a lot of Rastafarians that smoke a
lot of cannabis, you know, as part of their religion. The women there, they have better
childbirths. They have less time in labor. Their babies come out weighing more, which
is always a good sign. Doctors say, oh, it's always good when babies weigh more. It's a
sign of a healthy baby. These Rastafarian women, they have shorter labors, a lot less
traumatic, a lot less incidences of having to do cesarean sections. Their baby years
are healthier when they're born, you know, less problems in the first few months of their
lives that you hear about with other babies. And it's just amazing. And there, you know,
where these people consume what the rest of us probably think is an obscene amount of
cannabis, but they don't have any problems with it.
Yeah, the Rastafarians are known to smoke ounces, maybe even four ounces a day if they
have access to it. They smoke it in large cigars and quite frequently. And they find
that that doesn't have a bad effect in the studies they've done in Jamaica. And they've
done some pretty significant in-depth studies in Jamaica, a couple filling up a couple of
books. So to say that there isn't research showing that medical marijuana is beneficial
is just a lie. And it's a self-serving lie by those who say that because they want to
make more money. When you look at the Marinol pills that are out there today, they're obscenely
expensive. Fifteen dollars, up to fifteen dollars for a pill, which would be a nickel's
worth of marijuana. So you can see the economic incentive they have to keep doing what they're
doing.
It's just a huge incentive. And the fact that with the Rastafarian women down there in Jamaica,
they're taking the dosage in the way that a naturopathic doctor would want you to, or
any doctor, if they stopped and thought about it. They all, every way down, they smoke it
at their own pace. It's not like, okay, I'm going to smoke this huge amount in the next
half an hour. No, you just do it at your own pace. Everybody has their own pace. It depends
on your own body. And so that's a very good delivery system because they know what their
body is going through at that moment and what it needs and what it doesn't need. And there,
with the British government controlling Jamaica for so long down there, they did all sorts
of research because they were worried about cannabis getting into Britain. And like Paula
said, there was no problems down there at all. And they've had very few problems back
in Britain itself when cannabis got back there big time. So it's a very, very, it's
a very benign substance in so many ways, but it's also a very helpful, helpful benign substance
if that's not oxymoron.
Yeah. There's actually a new study that's being done in Britain to examine the antispastic
qualities of cannabis, how it stops people who are undergoing convulsions and spasms
from things such as multiple sclerosis. Specifically, it is a test of multiple sclerosis patients
that's just beginning in Great Britain. And there are many different medical studies that
are taking place. The United States government has just sponsored a new set of studies into
the medical benefits. But that's no reason to prohibit it today because it is useful.
It's been used medicinally for thousands of years, but now it's prohibited. And I really
believe the only reason it's prohibited is because it's economically benefits small groups
of people. And those people want to make certain that they continue making all the money they
can make. And it helps them to do that by making marijuana illegal.
Exactly. It would take away another profit center for them if all these drugs were no
longer available or people wouldn't buy these drugs so they could easily go down to their
local pharmacy and pick up medicinal marijuana. It would take a big profit center out of all
the pharmaceuticals and they'd be real upset about it.
And that's why the pharmaceutical companies are backing Partnership for a Drug-Free America.
You know, Partnership for a Drug-Free America does almost $2 million worth of advertising
every day. And 95% of those ads talk about marijuana and how bad marijuana is. But when
you look at the companies that are actually putting that information out there, the companies
that sponsor Partnership for a Drug-Free America, it's not a big surprise to see that it's a
lot of pharmaceutical drug companies and beer companies. Primarily, it's pharmaceutical
drug companies, beer companies, and companies with an interest in the police industrial
complex. Companies like Wackenhut that operate independent privatized prisons, they are one
of the big supporters of Partnership for a Drug-Free America. Eli Lilly, the people
who synthesize maranol, synthetic marijuana, and make $15 a pill, they're one of the big
sponsors. Anheuser-Busch, the beer makers, they're one of the big sponsors. All of these
people have a big economic interest in prohibition and that's why marijuana is illegal today.
It isn't about drugs, it's about money.
It's not about the evils of marijuana, the evils of cannabis. It's about civil rights and civil liberties.
It's the freedoms that we have out there for us. And to be able to choose our own medicine,
choose our own recreational drugs, choose our own products that we can grow. And the
Oregon Cannabis Tax Act will allow us to do that. So give us a call at 503-235-4606.
That's 503-235-4606 and we can send you out petitions today. And even if you just get
you and three other friends to sign it, that's great. Send it back to us because if we get
20,000 people to get five signatures, we'll be on a ballot. And everybody knows five people
who can sign a petition. We will sign this petition just to get it on a ballot. That's
what we're asking is to have a choice in the ballot in November 1998. And if we pass, if
we win, then you can have a choice afterwards because nobody's going to force anybody to
take marijuana as a medicine. Maranol will still be there for those who want to pay that
big bucks. But for those who don't, marijuana will be there as a medicine. And that's all
we're asking and that's all we're hoping that you'll help us and join us doing that.
Yeah, the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act would allow medical marijuana and prescriptions through
pharmacies with doctors. It would also allow people to grow their own. It would limit the
recreational use to those over the age of 21. And it would raise hundreds of millions
of dollars in taxes. It would also legalize industrial hemp because marijuana, cannabis
hemp, produces more fiber, produces more protein, produces more oil than any other plant on
our planet. And I truly believe that's another one of the key factors that marijuana is illegal
for today. It would produce more of these products and the companies that produce those
don't want to have to compete with hemp. So we want to urge you to give us a call, get
the petition, get some signatures. You know, it might be intimidating because on these
petitions there are 15 signature lines. You don't have to fill up the whole petition though.
In fact, if you just want to sign one name on there and send it back in to us, please
do. But once you've gotten your signatures, don't hold on to them. Send them back in to
us right away. We will hopefully turn this in early. We have until next July of 1998
to get the signatures. But we want to get them in as soon as possible. So give us a
call, get the petition. That's at 235-4606. If you're outside of Portland, it's 503-235-4606.
Or look on our website at www.crrh.org. You know, I'd like to take just a moment to thank
Lanny Swerdlow and Evolution Nightclub for helping us put this show on the air and taping
it. Lanny and Evolution in downtown Portland have been some of our biggest supporters and
I'd like to take just a moment to thank them for, they taped the show all at their own
expense and get it out there and put it on the air. And we're very grateful for their
help in doing this and getting the word out to you.
That's right, you know, because we're all volunteer and that's what's going to make
it happen is the volunteer power out there. So please join us and give yourselves some
more freedoms today.
Yeah, I'd like to also thank you for watching our show. This has been another exciting edition
of Cannabis Common Sense. I hope it's been informative. In final closing, we want you
to give us a call. Get our petitions at 235-4606.
That's right, and we'll even send the petitions in a brown paper wrapper so that it won't
have our name on it if you don't want it.
That's right. It doesn't say anything that is incriminating so you don't have to worry
about who sees it. You won't know who it's from until you open it. So thanks for watching
and hope we tune in next week.
Thanks folks.
Thanks Paul.
