This is one of the original pieces of hemp.
This is medium density fiberboard.
It was made out of hemp that was grown in Spain, imported through France.
We imported this, I think, in 1992.
We imported a bale through CNS Specialty Builders Supply, Bill Condi, David Seber, Barry Davis.
I was on the board of directors there.
We had to discover what we could do to use this.
We had this bale of hemp that we had to bring in through the DEA.
We had to prove that there was no THC in it whatsoever.
We were able to do that.
Now we got the hemp.
Now we have to discover what is it that you do with a bale of hemp to turn it into an
actual real live board.
I understand studies said that is stronger than steel.
This is what we did when we had to actually go through all of the standard industry tests
for this board.
What we discovered was that it met or surpassed every standard in the industry.
The modulus of rupture on this is something like 1,500, which is 10 times average.
When we had it tested on CNN, because we actually did have this tested on CNN, it broke the
machine that tests things like this.
We discovered all kinds of fanciful things that you can do with hemp from an industrial
standpoint.
This is in my archives.
You always have show and tell down here, Paul.
I'm glad you brought that in.
I bring a piece of history.
This is actually one of the very first hemp boards ever made.
I was on the board of directors and actually discovered how it was that we could cut this
up in order to make it turn it into boards.
When we sent it to Washington State, we discovered that they were using long fibers and they
put it through their fiber masher.
At Washington State University, they have the most advanced composite manufacturing
research and development facility in the world.
It was funded by the United States government.
It was after World War II, they funded that.
That's where we took it to have them test the fibers.
When they put all those fibers into the machine, it froze the machine up in just a few seconds.
They've never had anything do that to their machine before.
Rather than be upset, they were rather excited because they'd never had anything do that
before.
They wanted to know what this stuff was all about.
We went on to several year research and development process.
I believe that if you ever wanted to license this, you could go to Washington State University
and purchase the license because they own the license for this.
You could learn how to make it and the formula is available.
Simple as that.
It's out there.
Go to www.wisdm.org.
Learn more at www.wisdm.org.
Go to www.nasa.gov.
Thanks for watching.
NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology
