We have a wonderful fantastic speaker. She's one of the, what are there, four people left?
Four people left in the United States that actually gets her marijuana from the United States government.
Right? So when the government tries to say, well, American water has no medicinal value, we can say,
bullshit, you got people on the program. I want you to put your hands together and welcome to the stage.
Show your hemp stalk love for Elvy Musica. Oh, wow. What a beautiful introduction. Thank you so
much. And thank you for having me here. Thanks for putting on this wonderful event. All of you
that have participated, good job. And you're going to get a whole lot more people here before 420.
That's for sure. It's good to see all of you. I came for a little ride. I didn't get it together.
I didn't know that I was going to be speaking here. It happened. It happened. I came to see
all of you and just say hello and enjoy the fact that we're coming out of our cocoons and
getting together and expressing ourselves about God's most beautiful gift to us, the beautiful
plant that should be our home. The clothes we wear, well, my purse in this case, should be, is my
nutrition that keeps me healthy. Not to mention that it is my medicine when my eye pressures go up,
when I revisit all injuries that make me not walk so well for the summer, that put us into tons of
marijuana, rubbed on it, lots of eating. And two months later, I'm at the festival. And just to get
inside here, you better know that you better walk, huh? It's a challenge. It's fun. It's all good.
Now you got doors opening everywhere. You have a governor that as he signed the hemp bill, which
now are the seventh state to have it. He stated that, you know, that was a good thing to do. So
Oregonians would not be far behind, but ahead of the curve that's coming, that's inevitable.
I think he said that he expected other aspects of this plan's prohibition to end. And I think
we're all behind that. I'm excited that Oregon is thinking of an I-28 and it is doing the other
initiatives for regulation and taxation and is doing the hemp initiatives. And I will be out
there hoping and everything that's positive about cannabis that gets on the ballot, we're going to
get out there and we're going to vote for it. Meanwhile, I guess it's getting it to the ballot
that's important at this stage. And I know you will all participate in whichever initiatives
you're most familiar with and want to help the most with. I hope you find time to work with all
three and I hope all three make it to the ballot. And I'm really looking forward to that kind of
excitement next year. The other thing that should have, could have, ought to be happening now is
that because we have doors opening, doors are opening in Washington, D.C., there is no excuse
for a single one of us not to have contacted our legislators and expressed our urgency in wanting
to end this hideous prohibition that's unconstitutional, immoral, and it's a law against
the creator's work, which makes it a blasphemy. To arrest an adult for choosing a wiser body is
the epitome of hypocrisy and we no longer have the time, much less the money, to support such
insanity. Your legislatures need to express to you that they're not ignorant and they will change the
course of history because, as Jack Hare says, this plant has to be here to reverse
the destruction we have done, cutting down all those trees for paper, worthless paper that will
disintegrate within 100 years even if you keep it safe. Back to the real paper, back to the real life.
Cannabis hemp is a reality. We will realize before this decade is over, before even the next five
years, and hopefully the next year all over this country and Oregon can take the lead flag again
and show the world how this is done. Along with California, the Northwest is blessed.
All of you, I thank you. I'm glad to be one of you. I live in the Northwest now. I'm taking care
that the true spirit of love will always be your rock and guiding light wherever you go. Thank you.
