Paul, this is for you if you're out there.
Paul wanted to hear this song.
It's called Hiroshima Nagasaki Russian Roulette.
And it's about, well, you know,
America's always posturing and posing and saying,
you know, those people over there, they wanna get a bomb.
They wanna get nuclear stuff going in their own country,
you know, whether it's Iran or whoever it is.
And at the same time, America's the only country,
the only country in the world that's ever used
an atomic weapon and it did it preemptively
on a civilian population twice, twice.
They did it in Hiroshima and they did it in Nagasaki.
So this is called Hiroshima Nagasaki Russian Roulette.
They dropped the bomb in 45 to end the world war.
No one had ever seen such a terrible sight before.
The world watched with eyes wide to see where it would lead
as the politics of power passed around the sea.
It was a time to remember that we never can forget
to play in Hiroshima Nagasaki Russian Roulette.
They arose like the saviors of our modern human race
with radiation halos that hung above their face
with a key to the sure cure and treatment of our ills.
A hot shot of cobalt, a pocket full of pills
speaking always of the enemy who looked across the seas
while they moved in among us like a carrier disease.
Hold up in the harbors hidden secretly away,
the warheads and the submarines a way to make their play
and the military masterminds improve on their designs
while the soldiers get all doped up
and stumble through the lines and the leaks and the water
and get carried by the tide.
They call it national security.
I call it attempted homicide.
Governors and statesmen on congressional pay,
quick to please the hand that feeds.
Careful what they say.
They call out experts to assure us
and to wave their magic wands.
This is the power of the future, they say.
And the future marches on
and then they gather up their favors and political gains
while the spills fill the rivers and settle in the plain.
I know the minds behind them, they are riddled full of holes.
They are not to be trusted with their hands at the controls.
Their eyesight is twisted with the glory of their careers.
Heaped praise, a flattery is music to their ears
and to listen to them talk about how it hasn't happened yet.
It's like playing Heber Sheehan in Nagasaki wrestling.
