My medical issue started with comas, surgery, seizures, anxiety, and yes, PTSD.
I started on 36 meds a day and I've managed with the help of cannabis and my doctors to only have one pill a day now in cannabis.
That's my success.
We are all individuals with different needs and so please, I beg of you to please leave our medical alone.
We have managed so far to be able to take ourselves off of prescription drugs and get to some way of having a life.
I along with my husband, Big Mike, and another couple, Jesse and Mary, opened The Other Spot a year and three months ago.
For a place that not only OMMP card holders could partake in their medicine, but also get the information that they need.
Such as attorneys, current dispensaries, information provided by medical clinics such as THCF, which is now Empower.
We provided birthdays, anniversaries, karaoke, boomers, comedy shows.
We unfortunately also provided what we have in this community built on injury and sickness.
We have also provided celebration of lives.
I want to say I miss you, okay, Ray, John, Craig, Dr. Leveque.
Some of the pictures are here.
All those gentlemen gave a lot to this community and people need to recognize that.
Gatherings for fellow patients also.
We are much more than a place to go.
We are a place that became family.
My husband, my son, and my daughter are all also patients.
And since the cannabinoids were added to the Oregon Clean Air Act, we have had to close The Other Spot January 1st.
Because we couldn't afford the $500 a day fine, nor did we want to break the law.
Please, I also beg of you, please remove the cannabinoids from the Clean Air Act.
It's not fair to any of us.
You will also have patients breaking another law that this fine state has established, and that's smoking in public view.
If you don't have places for these people to go, they'll go to your parks.
Please, please support things coming up such as hemp stock.
Our festival that we have here in September 24th and 25th down at Waterfront in Portland, Oregon.
Please support these social clubs like PGN in Kaiser, Northwest Cannabis Club in Portland.
Please don't think that one day The Other Spot will not rise again out of the community ashes.
Thank you and please vote and continue to have your voice heard.
Always showing good stonerism.
Thank you.
