When I was about twelve years old, I decided that I wanted to be a forensic chemist.
Uh-huh.
And a forensic chemist has turned out to be a toxicologist, but it wasn't called that
at that time.
My training professor was the Oregon State chemist for many, many years, and he trained
me as a toxicologist.
And then when I got to medical school, I became a Ph.D. of pharmacology and toxicology.
And you taught pharmacology and toxicology at a number of medical schools.
I taught physiology, pharmacology, and toxicology for about ten medical schools.
I was invited to East Africa, Uganda, and Tanzania, where I trained the first doctors
in Tanzania.
Uh-huh.
Uh-huh.
The University of Georgia, Ohio.
I was recruited by the University of London to teach in Africa.
And so, just like I said, I trained the first doctors there.
And I was a medical school professor for twenty-five years.
The last three years, I was a full-time student while I was a full-time professor.
And that was at the college?
Osteopathic College in Des Moines, Iowa.
The strange thing about it was that I got my osteopathic degree when I was fifty-four
years old, and I was older than most of the teachers.
That's funny.
That's when you started being an individual practicing osteopath.
Yeah.
I had got associated with Paul at a town hall meeting.
Yeah, we were at KATU, Channel 2's town hall.
And I was in the hot seat.
It was just before the vote.
It was the week, just two days before the vote in 1998, where we were urging people
to vote yes on Measure 67 for medical marijuana, and no on Referendum Measure 57 to recriminalize
marijuana.
The legislature in 97 had passed a bill to recriminalize marijuana, and we got 90,000
signatures to stop that from going into effect.
A year later, we got another 120,000 to put the marijuana legalization on the ballot.
So we went into this town hall.
Of course, there was one side of the studio where people were largely in favor of marijuana,
and the other side of the studio were people largely against marijuana.
And you were right in the middle of the crowd that was against marijuana.
The whole thing was, there were so many people pro-marijuana, and I was on crutches, so I
had to sit on the other way.
What was the name of that attorney who was running that?
You know who I'm talking about.
Oh, um...
Jack.
Oh, Jack Schweig?
Now that's the one I'm wondering why.
I can't remember his last name.
But Jack, he was the emcee for a number of years.
Yeah, that's right.
And so he wanted to know if anybody on the other side wanted to speak, and so I raised
my hand.
And I said...
I think everybody around you thought you were about to launch into something about how terrible
marijuana is.
And I said, marijuana's been used for 5,000 years as medicine and it has never killed
anybody!
And I can see this Jack doing...
These people start to scoot away from you.
But I noted it, and as soon as that show was over, I came to invite you to co-host this
show.
We started this show in 1996, in late 1996.
And then you came on at about show number 75 or 80.
Something like that, yeah.
We have some clips of some of these earlier shows we're going to play here a little bit
later.
With Paul Loney.
Yeah, we had Paul Loney on as a guest host, and he stayed on until about show 125 or so.
Then when we switched over from this private studio that Lanny Swerdlow had started, done
the first 120 shows, you moved over to when we started to record shows here as well.
And you stayed at it for quite a while.
The first applications that I wrote were in your homes.
For about three different homes?
Yeah, and what happened is that people started coming to the TV show before the show to get
you to sign their papers.
It just started to be overwhelming in terms of the people coming just before the show.
So we decided to move it over to my home for a while.
My kids were young then.
They're young adults now, but I roll around on the floor and pick up all the food scraps
and toys and stuff.
But eventually we opened an office on Broadway and 45th, and we outgrew that office the day
we opened it.
It was too small.
And so we kept going.
