If you free the plant, you'll free the planet.
Irv Rosenfeld is the longest surviving federal medical marijuana patient in the United States.
He's the published author of My Medicine.
Give a warm Seattle welcome to Irv Rosenfeld.
Thanks Irv.
Good afternoon.
I want to thank everybody at the Senn Festival.
It's a great job they put on.
They worked very hard.
And like they said, a few dollars in the pot would help them bring this back next year.
My name is Irv Rosenfeld.
I am the longest surviving federal medical cannabis patient in the United States.
The federal government's been giving me marijuana for the last 28 years.
I've received over 120,000 medical cannabis cigarettes so far from the federal government.
Now, I've always tried to be very responsible.
If you've seen me on any of my documentaries or on any of my news shows, you usually see
me with a coat and tie on.
Whenever you're talking about medical cannabis, you want to look better than the crowd that
you're with.
I wish I could dress like this today.
The point is, you've got to be responsible.
If you're going to use cannabis in whatever way you use it, and if you don't use it responsibly,
then you're giving me a bad name.
I don't like that.
So make sure you know what cannabis does to you.
And if it puts you in a position where you're lethargic and don't feel like doing something,
then don't do it.
Don't put yourself in that position when you have to do something.
If it makes you creative, makes you a better person in your thoughts, well then when you've
got work to do, nothing wrong with it.
You've got to know what it does to you.
You've got to be responsible.
Now, I came all the way from Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
This is the first time that I've been here in this crowd.
And I must say, I'm very impressed.
So I do hope that they're able to carry this on and carry it next year and the year after
that and many years to come.
But it's going to be with all of y'all's help out here.
Now, being the longest surviving federal patient, I realized that the history of the medical
marijuana movement, I helped start.
I planted the seeds in the early 70s for what you see here today in all of the country.
And I realized that if I died, all that information would die with me.
That wasn't fair.
So I've been very fortunate to be able to be a federal patient, to be able to win the
struggles and trials and tribulations.
It just didn't happen overnight.
It was a 10-year struggle.
So I sat down and I wrote a book.
The book is called My Medicine, because that's what it is, my medicine.
Now, I'm hoping that this book will teach the American public that they don't have the
face of when they think about marijuana, they think of some no good, whatever person sitting
back just wanting to get high.
Now, here I am in a coat and tie.
Now, I'm a financial advisor.
I'm senior vice president of investments for Newbridge Securities.
Okay, I say that because again, I'm a responsible person.
And I use 10 to 12 marijuana cigarettes per day to do it for my bone disorder.
It works as a muscle relaxant, anti-inflammatory for pain.
I have bone tumors all throughout my body.
Now, I teach disabled people how to sail boats in Miami.
I've been married for 37 years.
I do all this, I do all this because I have the right medicine.
The people out here, y'all have the right medicine.
But that's only 40% of the country right now that's under state laws.
We need the rest of them to come and join us to be able to enjoy the freedom, the medical
freedom that we have here.
So what I'm going to go back to Florida with is a picture of freedom, of being able to
see people that can do what they want to do, medically speaking, as long as they don't
harm others.
So when I finish speaking, I'm going to be out down here in the front of the stage.
I'll be doing book signings.
Plus, the booth I'm in is a 420 booth, which is a Hempire booth.
We're 420.
I hope you all come there, get an autographed copy.
I'll be there all day.
And keep in mind, they're going to be bringing a festival here in March, right to Seattle,
and I think it's something that you all want to check out.
So to everybody here again, thank you so much for coming.
Thank the sponsors, the band, the organizers, the people that clean up, the people that
set up.
Realize, y'all are just walking in.
It didn't cost you anything to walk in.
Everything's provided for you.
Now you've got to pay for your food, you've got to pay for water, but think of everything
that's been done for you by other people.
So when you see that bucket go around, you've got to reach in and you've got to give them
something.
For me, that's also very important.
So again, please be responsible and use cannabis correctly.
Thank you.
Thank you so much, Herb Rosenfeld.
