Hi, this is Morgan Fox, I'm the Communications Manager at the Marijuana Policy Project.
I really just kind of want to talk about television for a little bit.
National TV is probably one of the most important media outlets that we can go after just because it gets the most number of views.
Clips from national TV are the ones that get posted on blogs and get spread around a lot more.
That's what really grabs people's attention.
And we've definitely come a long way in getting access to national media.
In 2002, one of my predecessors tried to call CNN to pitch a story.
And the receptionist had to put him on hold because she couldn't stop laughing.
And when she put him back, her response was,
Alright, Mr. Marijuana, what should I say you want to talk about?
And in 2008, they were calling us.
I mean, we've really come a long way, but now that we have access to it, it's becoming very much a double-edged sword.
It's become harder to control the messaging and harder to get stories pitched the way that we really want them to.
Because, I mean, quite frankly, the media cares about drama.
They don't care about facts. They don't care about truth.
All they care about is what's going to get the most views.
And for that, they want drama and conflict.
So the trick is to try to get these guys to focus on the conflicts that we want them to,
as opposed to the conflicts that they find the easiest.
And the way that we do that is, I mean, first developing relationships with producers
to make sure that we can pitch them the type of stories that we need to,
but also by creating our own conflicts so that we can control the messaging.
That means calling out legislatures in public forums so that people will start to ask questions
and maybe put them on the spot a little bit.
They love it when politicians are embarrassed and start stammering.
We all do.
Instead of them just waiting for them to find their own stories and going after things like
conflicts within ballot initiative campaigns or conflicts within the movement
or that one dispensary owner who's got a bunch of AK-47s in the back,
we need to get them to focus on the conflicts that we want them to because those are the juicy stories.
They don't really care about how this bill is going along unless there's some sort of hook.
And as we move forward and try to get more and more media coverage for this,
really, I mean, we can't find anybody that's going to debate us on this issue anymore, and I've tried.
So many times I'll be talking to producers and they say, well, we want to do a segment on this,
but we can't find anybody to be the other side of the debate.
I'll do it.
Masquerade as a drug warrior.
Well, what about the children?
Absolutely.
But those are the things that we need to really concentrate on, creating conflicts that the media wants to look at.
And that means we have to really try to go out there and embarrass the people that are working against us,
but of course in a polite way.
Right. No cream pies.
But I mean, that's really all I've got.
If anybody has any questions, feel free.
