Hello everybody, how you doing today?
I am so, so grateful to be here today with you,
this absolutely beautiful day in downtown Portland,
to free the plant.
We have a lot of work to do.
Our earth is hurting.
Our people are hurting.
The sacred balance of the feminine and masculine is off.
It's really off.
And I don't know about you, but I believe that cannabis
is the key to restoring balance,
to restoring equity,
and to restoring our health.
With cannabis legalization, we have an opportunity to do things differently.
I see this as an opportunity for us to free our people
who are sitting in jail still right now
as other people profit off of this plant.
We have an opportunity to create a solution
to our dependency on plastics, on toxic chemicals,
and on all sorts of things that don't seem to make sense for us anymore.
Hemp is a solution to many, many, many things.
We have a chance to restore equity for men and women,
for people of all skin colors, from all over the world.
We have an opportunity to actually create programs with equity built into them.
I am envious of the other places that are putting those policies into place right now.
And I want Portland to do the same, and Oregon to do the same,
for us to give assistance to the people that were in jail and whatever else,
give them an opportunity to be working in cannabis
through supportive programs, grant programs, and just assistance.
I believe that this is our duty.
Finally, I think that cannabis legalization is an opportunity for empowerment
for women and men, for us to step up and take charge of our own lives
and our own health and our own people.
Why do you love cannabis?
I know I love cannabis because it heals me for so many different properties.
I have scoliosis, osteoarthritis, I'm a mom.
I need cannabis for so many reasons on a daily basis.
And I think one of my favorite things about cannabis is it helps me work through challenges,
emotional challenges.
If I'm ready to work out something, it will bring it up, and it will help me work through it.
Cannabis aids in our pain emotionally and physically.
And until we realize this, I don't think the plant will be free.
Cannabis helps me see my truth, and cannabis helps me face my fears.
We all deserve love, happiness, health, equal rights, and access to clean medicine.
My son Carmine is here today, and I want him to live in a world
where he's free from shame around using cannabis as medicine.
