In Canada, which is basically the only place in North America
where you can legally produce any hemp right now,
the main product is seed and the grain.
Is that correct?
Yes.
What's the use of the fiber that's produced?
Is it the farmers growing separately for fiber
and separately for grain?
In the initial beginning, we were
growing the taller stature cultivars that came over
from mostly from the Ukraine.
But now that the industrial hemp has been legalized in Canada
since 1998, they've developed breeding programs
to actually breed for short stature cultivars
and that we wouldn't be dealing with the fiber.
So the hold up right now is that we have a lack
of decortication equipment.
And this is the infrastructure that it's
going to take to actually decorticate the fiber.
So you're getting the bast and the herd separate
for whether you're going into animal bedding,
composite application, or into a hemp creek
or building press board types of applications.
And also, you're not able to haul the bales completely
across the provinces.
So you need to have them really regionally located closer
to where the grower groups are.
Because if not, it becomes uneconomical
to be freighting bales on the back of trucks
to facilities that are hundreds of miles away.
Is there paper production going on in Canada with that?
No.
None at all?
There is a little bit of fiber that
is coming into the US to be made into some artisan type papers,
but not on the scale we need.
I mean, it's a huge business opportunity
to recognize the fact that there's
a growing demand for the hemp building.
Now you have all these other kind of interesting products
and mandates from companies to actually go green and use
these type of green composites in their parts.
So it's an opportunity for somebody
to recognize the fact that we do have this production.
We have farmers that are looking for another venue
of increasing the farm gate.
And that's one of the major ways to do it is to take this fiber.
