You've inspired so many people with your book.
You had a book first on raiding cannabis, right?
Yes.
And that was like a judging cannabis one, right?
Two years before High Times.
Two years before High Times, like 1970 or so?
73.
73.
Okay, and then when I first met you, I'd seen an article in the yippee newspaper, Overthrow,
called the CMI White Paper.
And that was kind of about three pages long and laid out kind of the gist of what was
the outline of your future book, The Infrared Snow Glow.
And it was, what's his name, the guy from New York.
Dana Beal.
Yes.
He took them for himself.
He said, oh, that's some wonderful information.
I could have it.
Put it in Overthrow?
Is that how that got published?
Yeah, and I got really bad.
You got mad at Dana for that?
I don't blame you, John.
He deserved it.
A few people did.
I know that then in 85, you wrote the first edition of your book right here in Portland,
in River City.
And it was, for a while, it was the CMI-OMI White Paper, the California Marijuana Initiative,
the Oregon Marijuana Initiative.
And the first few editions were like newsprint editions.
No.
They were handed out, right?
The first edition and the second edition were a 110-page book.
The third and fourth edition, I've got 90,000 copies for the...
The campaign for the Oregon Marijuana Initiative in 86.
And that was a newspaper.
Yeah, yeah.
I remember every neighborhood they handed those out in, I think, OMI won.
Yes.
It was one of the...
Every...
There's only one, 15 cities in the...
What do they call it?
Precincts.
Yeah, 15 precincts.
Those were the ones.
And those were the ones.
It's been handed out twice.
And three times and four times it got handed out,
because the guys...
90,000 people and about 30 of them, 30,000 of them,
got once, twice, three times and four times.
We won those by 60 or 70%.
Right.
So how many copies have been sold now and how many languages is your book,
The Emperor Wears No Clothes, printed?
And it was the number one seller in Germany too?
In about 100 magazines and about 750,000 copies in the United States
and about 500 or 600,000 copies overseas.
A lot of them in Germany.
And then there is about 10 or 15 companies, Japan, Korea, Hungary,
Czechoslovakia, Poland, Russia.
So it's in all these different languages, like 15 different languages.
Yes, but they don't pay me.
I guess your copyright's only as good as your ability to enforce it.
