That was a great film. That was produced through the ages of the Body Shop.
The lady, what's her name? Anita Roderick?
Yeah. She died.
She just passed away recently. That's a shame.
So when did this first come out? Was it...
In 2000.
In 2000. Time flies. You've had a stroke since then, but you've come back a long way since then.
About one month after...
After this came out, you were here already.
Yeah. And I can't talk or walk for two or three...
You couldn't talk at all for a couple of years.
Yeah. And now I'm getting my voice back.
But I always had my attitude back.
Right. Right.
You were there. You just couldn't say it that well.
You never lost the attitude.
Once you know that hemp is the only thing that will save the fucking world...
I'm sorry.
That's why we had that disclaimer on the final show, you know, for things like that.
But...
Okay.
It's the plant that will save the planet.
50% to 80% of all food in the whole world was hemp until about 1850s or 1900.
50% to 80%.
It was the main fuel for plants.
Out of 3 million plants, the number one to 100 in all the energy and vitamins and minerals is hemp.
Until you get to 101...
Soybeans.
Yeah. Only soybeans are in its digestible.
No.
Hemp protein actually meets human nutrition requirements.
No, no, no.
It's 1,000% digestible by the whole human body.
And it tastes good, too.
25% of a gram every day.
And I eat it.
Yeah.
It's...
Doses of THC.
And that's more than 100.
It's almost...
16 ounces of the prime bud dried.
To 2 ounces of...
Oil.
Oil or keel.
Yes.
And 99%, at least I thought it was 60% in the beginning, but it's 99%.
And only on the 4 stages, the 1st stage, 2nd stage, 3rd stage, we didn't go.
Because those are 100% curable.
So you're talking about the cancer stage.
Yes. Well, the 1st stage is cancer, the 2nd stage is cancer, the 3rd stage is cancer.
And so this oil kills the cancer.
And 4th stage, you're going home to die because there's nothing else you can do there.
And all those people, 1,500 of them, got THC.
This oil, high phenobotoxin.
Huge, huge, huge, huge, huge...
Doses.
And they are 100% closed, saved, and they're never coming back again for 7 years.
Not one person has got it back.
That's like a miracle, isn't it?
No, they have 2 days to 2 weeks to 2 months to live.
And they all live 7 years now, and there's no trace of cancer anymore.
And it's against the law in the United States for 37 years.
And we got it in 1973, 74, and 75 in the Commonwealth of Virginia at Richmond.
They showed that it was useful to kill cancer back then.
100%!
Right.
Skin cancer, melanoma cancer, brain cancer, album cancer, cancer.
All these different cancers.
And 100%!
And what's great too, we've been reporting on this at Normal.
We just had 3 stories in a row that came up on this, where people were, researchers, of course, overseas.
I want to tell you, Normal, for the last 7 years, had put,
Oh, this guy doesn't have the pants or the tights or none of that.
And I thought, everybody is wrong about this, because I know it.
37 years ago, I wrote the fucking book on it.
And that's the thing too, is we're starting to find all of these researchers.
I was there, I remember.
We're finding all this research that's coming out now, that's just kind of nibbling around the edges here.
We had a report on, they did a long-term cohort study of chronic marijuana smokers
who had been smoking for 10 to 20 years, and found that they had less incidence of head and neck cancer
than people who don't smoke at all.
They find that the THC directly injected into prostate cancer cells, in vivo or in vitro,
kills the prostate cancer cells, and we found and reported on how people that smoke marijuana,
when they take a look at their lung function, their lungs are no worse off than people that don't smoke at all.
And so, marijuana prohibition is truly evil.
It's an evil, evil thing to deny people a cure for cancer, to deny our planet.
I mean, it's earth medicine, that's what John Trudell was telling us a year ago here,
that will solve a lot of our problems environmentally, a lot of our physical problems, a lot of our economic problems.
We're believers, you can tell that.
