Hello and welcome to another exciting edition of Cannabis Common Sense. This is
our 50th show so it's a real milestone isn't it Paul? Yeah it's definitely a
milestone and I'd like to thank everybody that's volunteered down here
to help us put the show on. Yeah we'd like to thank Lanny for making his club
The Rage in downtown Portland available to us and Gregory and everyone involved
so thanks a lot. My name is Paul Stanford and I'm one of the chief petitioners
along with our associate Paul Loney here on the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act and
that is a petition put out by the Campaign for the Restoration and
Regulation of Hemp. Exactly the our political action committee says it all
the Campaign for the Restoration and Regulation of Hemp. It's a comprehensive
initiative which would regulate marijuana. It would allow sales to adults
through state liquor stores. It would allow patients to access medical
marijuana at pharmacies at cost with a prescription from a doctor. It would
allow our farmers to grow industrial hemp which is the low THC variety and it
would provide for some education on in real drug education programs. Exactly it
would create thousands of jobs in industrial hemp and it would also bring
in hundreds of millions of dollars in state revenue. You know we're circulating
it as a petition right now and we need your help. We are at about 24,000
signatures as we're taping in early April. We need 73,000 good valid
signatures by the end of June. We sent out thousands of these to our viewers. If
you have our petition already we urge you to mail it back to us. If you don't
have it yet let us mail it to you right away. Call us at 503-235-4606.
Yeah get the petitions back to us today. If you only have one or two or
three signatures on it make sure you get your signature and at least your best
friend's signature on that and get them back to us or call us up and get more
signatures. And today in today's show we're gonna go back up to Vancouver BC
the marijuana breadbasket of the Pacific Northwest as it's now known and continue
our interviews up there in Vancouver. Yes we're interviewing the second half
of our interview with Mark Emery. Mark Emery is a longtime activist who's been
practicing civil disobedience. He founded a multi-million dollar business Hemp BC
and the Cannabis Cafe. There's also a Hemp BC legal assistance center and a
wholesale business and a magazine called Cannabis Canada. That's just spectacular
isn't it? Oh it's a fabulous magazine. I think it's the most comprehensive
magazine on cannabis in the entire world right now. I think so as well and it's
professional. Oh and it's done very nicely. Very nice layout, very nice
graphics, photographers are all great. The people we met up there were all great.
And generally they have something that I personally really like. They always have
some hemp paper in there. Some of it's printed on the fibers paper made from
the fibers of the marijuana plant. So yeah they're putting their money
where their mouth is. And so I think it's time to get to the interview. Get into
the interview. The last plug call us at 235-4606 to get this
petition. Mark Emery's interview he starts out talking about some of his
legal problems since he's come out in the media with the Wall Street Journal
and CNN. So it starts out with that and goes into politics.
Then I would go to jail indefinitely until it comes up in December. So they've
got ways of breaking you. If they want to break you they can break you.
And they've raided me twice and they certainly racked up a pile of debts
and caused my assets. I mean that restaurant cost me a quarter million
dollars loan. It's probably one of the most famous restaurants in North America.
But I sold it for about fifty thousand bucks over five years because nobody
will buy a restaurant that doesn't have a business license. It's under constant
police supervision for no particular reason mind you. And you know that's you
can't liquidate a commodity like that. But on the other hand I was given like
about ten days to sell. So it's like classic Jewish pogrom in Russia you
know. You've got three days to get out of town. You can sell all your stuff for
whatever you can get which will be like one you know tenth of its value. And you
have to liquidate and you're just gone. And if you don't liquidate they just come
back and seize it anyway like they've already done. They didn't need any any
special permission to raid me twice and they don't need it. And they clearly told
me we don't need it to do it again. So get out. And I took the hint. No they came
back and said listen we're not even gonna wait till you go to court to
contest the license suspension. We'll just come and take all your stuff. And so
well see if you sell the business and a new license application they have to be
given up to a year to two years to be tested. Because if they don't break the
law or they don't appear to be advocating breaking the law like I do
then they can't be denied a business license. You are protected in some ways
but as a guy who's gone on every major media and said I break the law every day
seven different ways to Sunday. That's it I've already you know cashed in my
ability to go to before a judge and say I'm a good citizen. I obey laws. I don't
obey laws. It's real clear that I don't obey them. I've got 16 counts against me
of various things and some of them are really outrageous. All of them are
outrageous. They're all related to this marijuana issue and they're all idiotic.
I've never sold marijuana. I've never even been accused of selling marijuana.
Seven of them relate to seeds. Two of them relate to giving somebody a gift of
five dollars worth of hash. These are all life sentence convictions. Yeah that's
interesting. I've been taken to jail twice for just giving out brochures on
government property legalizing marijuana. They handcuffed me in jail. They
twice for that. I'm charged with assaulting a police officer but what it
is I spit on him. When they raided us last time they started beating up my
employees and I was there watching it happen right in front of me. They told me
to back up and I spit in the cops face and they stopped beating on them and
beat on me and threw me in jail overnight. So you know that's how I got
that but that was the intention of spitting on the cop anyway.
To me that's a pretty reasonable form of contempt.
Yeah. Spit on a cop.
Also what am I supposed to do in front of my employees anyway?
What am I supposed to do? Stand there and let the cop do it? So anyway I chose the most suitable
line of resistance. It was the least resistance. Are there others? There must be others.
Oh yes I've got one charge of promoting paraphernalia. I've got one charge of
selling paraphernalia. So they've kind of got it all covered.
Eight or nine trafficking, two paraphernalia, one literature, two
assaulting the cop, the usual.
So including literature you said?
Yeah no they're not promoting literature.
Giving out brochures at the community centre. I had to get permission.
My understanding was you don't need to get permission to give out
brochures on government property related to a national issue. I had to petition to
Parliament. And so they busted you for that? Yeah I refused to move and so they
just said well we're just gonna have to handcuff you and take you away. I said well
handcuff me and take me away and that's what they did.
Were you around at City Hall? No no I was at the West End Community Centre which is where I live.
Right beside the library. So you know democracy is not necessarily
alive and well and not that it's any good if it is but I mean it's a
very peculiar place in Canada. Well it's interesting right now that to us you know
down in the states especially in the Pacific Northwest part of the United States
Vancouver is sort of like a shining beacon. Well it is in a relative way.
Yeah that's right because basically it's a police state unless you fight back and
then all of a sudden you might find that they give in and they relent and so you
know basically everything we do is illegal and they didn't bother us. They
never bothered us until American government pressure was put on our
police. They probably never bothered me because I'm a good guy. You check all my
interviews. You check the CNN show. They say nice things about me. You check the
article that's in Rolling Stone. Cops say nice things about me. They always say
nice things about me because there's nothing bad to say about me. I'm a totally upfront
honest guy. I pay all the money that everybody is entitled to. I give tons to
all the governments. I was great to my employees. I improved that neighborhood
vastly. I've you know contributed probably to two million two billion
dollars in economic growth in British Columbia because marijuana has really
gone through the roof has become easily the major crop in this province and you
know why because they got a great promoter. They got a great spokesman in
me and where you know when you think of great pot everything's BC. I'm sure
there's a lot of bogus pot trading throughout North America. They're saying
it's BC pot. Because that's that's that's the reputation. You put say
that about pot people gonna be interested in it. You know and a lot of
what's in Portland is from BC though and same with Washington and certainly
California and a bit of Colorado, Idaho and that sort of thing. But and it made
me a low figure to say it's four billion dollars in production every year out of
British Columbia alone. But you know I certainly I take a lot of credit for
that because we have made British Columbia pot famous and it's all good so
it's easy to promote. But at the same time you know there was nobody before I
existed like nothing absolutely. There was no infrastructure. There weren't 40, 50
hemp stores you see now or hemp symposiums being held down the street.
You know at the Pan Pacific Center. There's none of that going on before we
came by and now there's hundreds of hemp stores and a couple magazines and lots
of you know just lots of activity in Canada. There's tons of activity. And we
subsidize everything in the time in the period when I could. You know we gave
easily last year $100,000 and money and free legal help to everybody.
Everybody. So you know but the police knew that that's why they attacked us
because they wanted to damage its finances. Because that money was subsidizing the
whole war against the drug war. Right. So we sold three and a half million
dollars and I recirculated all of it but the 80,000 I keep. So that's a lot of
money to turn back into you know our information campaign really. And we got a
lot of interviews. I mean we've been in everything. My three proudest ones are
the worldwide CNN broadcast which has been aired three times now. And my... That's the
Impact Show. The Impact Show yeah which was fabulous. It's on our website too. Yeah and
the the Wall Street Journal front page on December 5th 1995. I'm really proud of
that one. That was great. They had five editors go through every aspect of my
life you could do. Because they were gonna be... Oh they said they were not gonna put
a drug dealer with any negative connections on the front page if there's
anything that came up. Like any single thing and they couldn't find anybody to
say anything about it. Maybe from not from a cop to my old teachers to any
employees to anybody. Could not find a negative comment. We couldn't go to... Went
to my neighbors. Couldn't find anybody there. And so they put me on the front
page. I'm the only thing on the front page. I did my face there. That's a
beautiful article. And the Rolling Stone article which is really nice because it
goes to a different market. They're all different markets. You know CNN, Wall
Street Journal, Rolling Stone and you know. So now that I've been sort of
kicked out and forced into some degree of retirement. I feel at least we've
accomplished a lot in that period. We certainly set the ball for a lot of
people to do stuff. So what are you... What businesses do you still have now? Well we
have Cannabis Canada where we're filming right now. And we still do mail order
Cannabis Canada. So we still sell bongs and pipes and magazines and books and
seeds by mail. And but you know the retail outlets were the real cash cows.
You know we sold. We used to sell five six thousand dollars worth of seeds a day
there. Four thousand dollars a day in the MPC store. And the caffeine ever does too
much. You know a thousand dollars a day there. But you know that's now that
they've got to pay for their people. Because those places now still
having about 22 employees. So you know their money gets turned back into the
suppliers and the employees. It's basically the same thing. Is the one who
we protected as many jobs as we can. We still have about 31 people in the MPC
family. Whereas we had 43 at the end of January. We had to let go anybody who
really couldn't couldn't be justified financially anymore. And the legal
services aren't free anymore. So because we lost all our you know most of our
sources of revenue. So you know all the freebies have been. And we we sponsored
Cannabis Nation radio hour which is the weekly radio show for our girls across
Canada. We paid for that entirely. Paid for everybody's legal services at the
law office. And we never people never charged for that. That was easy a
hundred thousand dollars a year for that one. You know we subsidized tons of stuff.
Most hemispheres in Canada received money from us etc etc. Which we can't do
anymore. And the police you know that was the intent of this whole thing. Sure sounds like it.
Is you know like they're saying like why are you letting this guy you know he
uses his money very efficiently is what they're admitting. He's real good. Whack
him. You know get him out. I mean also we when they were all the world leaders were
here we bought full-page ads and all the daily papers. Those are great ads. Have
you ever seen them? There's one in the cafe actually on the table. Take a look at
that full-page ad there. I heard about them of course. Can you describe it? I was doing
Nashville. Yeah Bill Clinton was here. And I that this issue of the newspaper that we
bought an ad in was really a corporate suck-up section. It was all about APEC so
that APEC leaders could read about themselves and everybody at APEC. And
then all the ads were like BC, TAL, FedEx. You know full-page corporate advertising.
And no one expected us to take advantage of we got it in the mail automatically as a
routine thing. And we said we'll buy full-page ads and all in all the daily
papers that day. And so we had a jet when the big headlines it's time to end the
war on marijuana. And then it's got the cannabis culture of Canada welcomes APEC
leaders and delegates to the world the North America's marijuana bread
basket. British Columbia. And the headline and I'm just thinking there must have
been a half you know a lot of big Canadian guys who just really had a heart
attack when they read. Because you know the guys from Malaysia and Singapore
going we kill people. And they said come and have a smoke with us four blocks away.
Because it was only four blocks away from the Pan Pacific. So I invited all
the leaders to come down and have a talk with me and check it out and discuss why
they still think marijuana should be illegal if they're so concerned. And
basically we also cited the human rights record of each country. We'd go that you
know marijuana traders are executed in China, Singapore, Malaysia, United States
640,000 people are put in jail. Blah blah blah. George Washington and Thomas
Jefferson's you know sowed hemp and Bill Clinton wants to put everybody in jail
that does so today. And we made fun of the fact that America still calls itself
a pluralistic democracy in the land of the free. While locking up everybody in
sight who doesn't agree with the you know the president's point of view on
marijuana. And basically tried to shame and embarrass them. And pointed that
we're decent people. We're your leaders. We're your children. We're your teachers.
We're your uncles. We're the kid next door. We're the people who sell you stuff.
We're the people who work with you etc etc. And that it was idiotic to advocate
any kind of policy that put us in jail. As well as which it was good medicine. We
listed off as good medicine. It's great for fiber you know. And it's a wonderfully
articulate beautiful thing in the bottom. It's got hemp BC cannabis cafe in the
little grow shop. And then invite everybody come down and check us out
four blocks away. Yeah we got nine delegates from APIC. Yeah that's a lot
considering they'd have to have the nerve to come in. And I think four of them were
Canadian. One was American. One was Mexican. And two were from Asia.
Hi. Just want to remind everybody that this interview has been brought to you
by the Campaign for the Restoration and Regulation of Hemp. Our Political Action
Committee which is the sponsors of the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act. The petition over
here. And so please help us out. Make the vision of Vancouver BC become a reality
down here in Oregon. And by give us a phone call 503-235-4606.
That's 503-235-4606. And Paul remind us what the initiative does. It will tax
and regulate the sale of marijuana to adults. It'll allow adults to cultivate
marijuana for personal use. It'll allow farmers to cultivate the drug for sales
through liquor stores. It'll allow medical patients to receive
prescriptions through pharmacies at cost. Will tax adult marijuana sales. And it
will allow farmers to cultivate industrial hemp to produce thousands of
products. Everything from the diesel in our trucks to the paper on our books and
the fabric on our back. Yeah and one of the things that I'm excited about with
our initiative and the medical aspect of it that allows the doctor and patients
to decide what to use marijuana for. What to use cannabis for. Some of the other
initiatives going around the country there's like a set list of what a doctor
can say it's good for. And if you know if you're not on the list well you're out of luck.
But not ours. It's between a doctor and a patient the way it should be. In pure
freedom. No prohibitions. No regulations on doctors or on patients. So give us a
call and help us out. Send back petitions if you've already got them. So we need
them now. Time's growing short. Or call us if you haven't got a petition yet or if
you lost yours. That's two three five four six zero six. And help us make it
legal here. And maybe we can mark invite Mark Emery down here once it's legal. And
he can the greatest marijuana smoker in North America he's called or the world
this day. I guess that's what some of the media is calling him. Yeah. The world's
greatest marijuana smoker. Well you know we can we can have him down here. Once we
change those laws. He doesn't want to come down here while there's a lot more
freedom up there. There's no sense in him coming down here and facing the wrath
of the federal fascist state. So call us and get these petitions at two three five
four six zero six. And now I guess we're back to the conclusion of the Mark Emery
interview. Back with the politics part.
So that was pretty good. Yeah we got a lot. But what was really important and this
is really hurt us late on. The ads got re-re-re-reported all over the world. New
York Times picked it up. A lot of American press picked up European television
filmed at the Cannabis Cafe. Reuters came in and we got calls from France and
Germany said they'd seen us there interviewed. And then we got very
syndicated magazines and so it kept going outward like that. Daily newspapers
would comment because the thing is great things the newspaper was delivered during
a boring news day as well. So there was endless people commenting on this
incredibly cool ad and they would read it aloud and stuff like that. And so you
know it got everything I wanted to get out of it but problem is I knew there
would be a consequence. I remember when CNN was here and they just
wrapped up in the last question they said so do you think there'll be any
negative repercussions to you being on this show? And I looked at the guy real
up close and I said well don't you? I mean of course I do. I said it's probably
the end. I said but it's a good way to go. Yeah. So. Well you're still doing
Cannabis Canada. Oh yeah and it's stable too. It's not in any danger or anything like that.
It was three weeks ago when after we were forced out of our retail business
our printer demanded all the money for the last issue and a half of this month's
right up front now you know and we found it for him. So that's so at least
we're really caught up. We've never been as well you know as well caught up in
Cannabis Canada as we are right now. So it's stable here. But you know there's
you know I'm not involved in really anything else at the moment other than I
give a lot of interviews and you know I'm still you know when you want an
interview about pot and you want it to be favorable you're gonna call me up
because you just have to quote me and most journalists are in favor of
marijuana legalization so by calling me you know you're gonna get what you want
because they've been suitably propagandized and so they know what to
promote too. So most journalists are getting good at it. They know what they
want so they call me up because they know they're gonna get great quotes you
know and I convince people. I literally convince people like I mean the climate
has gone from 39% of Canada wanted legalization only three years ago four
years ago and now 51% of the country wants legalization and in British
Columbia went way off the scale 63% you know so that means you've got 33% that
either said they were against marijuana or didn't have an opinion or anything
well where you got 63% are willing to say yes conclusively I want marijuana
legalized so you have a much more hardcore pro-marijuana segment of our
society than you have anybody who cares about making it illegal in other words
the people who are against it are ambivalent at best they don't care
really that doesn't concern them you know maybe there's teenage son took
marriage smoked marijuana they didn't like how he turned out so since then
they're against marijuana that tends to be the commonest kind of reason to be
against any kind of drug that I've ever heard is not because in and of itself
prohibition works it's just I didn't like my kid doing it so I don't want him
to ever see it again blah blah or whatever and therefore should be illegal
these are always irrational nonsensical people and when you look at the people
in favor of prohibition they're always total idiots it's like when people look
at white supremacists why you worried about white supremacist I said they're
all mongoloids they look at these people another master races are people that
couldn't get accepted in the lowest social club you know they've shaved
heads you know a little off to the side like a little you know egghead type
things you know we're bizarre things out in Montana that's the best fucking place
for those people let's isolate them let's send them to Montana I don't hope
they never show up for the rest of us right that's what you want to do with
those people right so I mean most most times people get worked up over nothing
and they ignore all the real problems in life that's what I found mm-hmm so do
you have any what's your vision of the future of the magazine and well we're
gonna put out more magazines we have a pot puzzle book coming out that's lots
of fun and cannabis Canada will issue like Avalon Sunsplash the holding
company of which I'm the president will put out more magazines of different
subject matters we're just good we have to like diversify we're still gonna
handle the mail over here and that'll expand in this department and but we
just go a little slower I mean after all the other things are well in place and
other people can look after those and I've also got to pay $100,000 in debts
because I pass on the businesses in a debt-free environment no money down debt
free that way you know you know you'll be successful but I got stuck with debt
so I have to pay down about $100,000 to suppliers so you know they'll get it in
the next few months you know and so then we'll consider new projects at that
point time but right now I'm in businessman mode paying off the old
debt okay no and oh well when I see business memory still give like five to
ten interviews a day of that kind so like on Saturday we're on the front page
of the London Free Press the cafe was on the front page of the Toronto Star on
the same day last last Thursday that was a full-page article on me in the daily
paper this Sunday I've got another article coming up later on this week in
the Vancouver Sun this magazines writing an article on me I mean it's in Saturday
night magazine I got radio shows you know blah blah blah there's tons of them
right so like great the great thing about being seen in Rolling Stone and
the Wall Street Journal is hey you can't those are the a-list that's it that's
true triple a-list when you've been acknowledged by those and then 60
minutes calls ABC News oh I got an ABC News special coming out in April one hour
special called victims of victimless crime and yeah and that'll probably get
more trouble because what I do is I go to a grow operation here where the guys
got a thousand plants in this house and then they asked me to describe what's
going on then they say what would a guy get if he were caught in various parts
of the United States I said well starting with Oklahoma you'd get 50 to 100 years
minimum in Florida Texas Arkansas and listed off about seven or eight others
you'd get 25 years and I said about 20 other states you get 10 years and every
other state in the America I said because a thousand plants is definitely
federal I said you're gonna get minimum mandatory five years absolutely without
question likely 10 to 15 I said this guy would get $2,000 fine if that since he's
an invalid be get less maybe and he's disabled so you know they probably would
say who cares you know like I mean the basically judges say who cares anyway
unless you're there for the tenth time like I'm gonna be before some judges
with quite a rap sheet so it looks it's worse for me because there you know they
piled the charges on to make it look bad so they you know they can start and the
police have to from their perspective of fighting a war you know it's like you
know the enemy generals right over there we could kill him but that would cause
more trouble than it's worse so we have to hassle him and you know a number of
things to keep me to marginalize or disable my effectiveness and I have to
go into court all the time and show oh well no it soaks up all my money I'll
never have any spare money to buy full-page ads I won't be able to start
any businesses and they know that right so it's their way of waging war but you
know there's a there's a couple of lines I often use I said you know it's good to
be underestimated for one you know they never knew how good I really was at this
until it was too late that's what I liked about that you know they think
well how much trouble can he be he's got one hemp to a four years later oh
fuck you know why didn't we just beat him up and throw him in an alley when we
had the chance you know and so now they're stuck with me and they got to
play ball because I'm actually one of the most well-known people from British
Columbia we've attracted tons of money that nobody really wants to turn away
and I'm really good at what I say I mean I'm I'm the kind of person you could
everybody could be proud of young BC's proud of me because I make BC sound
good I make PC sound tolerant pot smokers are proud of me because I look
sound dignified and and I don't look like a typical hippie I'm an employed
person with children like concerns like every other middle-class person and you
know the cops like me because I you know I'm polite not a problem you know type
of thing only if they're beating up your employees now even though you beat up
your employees for me and all I do is spit on you you could be thankful yeah I
mean if I was in America maybe I'd have a gun or something you know I mean pot
smokers in Canada are surprisingly docile passive people they're peace
lovers I mean they're not prone to fighting so it's not surprising that
we're one-way victims in this drug war but the fact is you know we're winning
while being abused and and and hurt and and so you know there's truth sooner or
later people realize the injustice of the situation but they're very slow to
act and they're very cowardly and people value money and comfort above freedom
and of course ironically they'll lose that too if they don't pay attention to
freedom but the thing is it takes a long time you know and in four years we've
just made dramatic rapid progress you know to me it's not fast enough but it's
been pretty good you know I mean we have without government subsidy it made
marijuana to British coming the best in the world we it's the cheapest in North
America it's the highest quality we've increased production by about three or
four times in the last four years and you know it's perfect it's a perfect
economy you know you start off with bullshit some seeds some water and the
natural Sun basically a very small investment and three months later some
Americans give me a big wad of money he goes and takes this marijuana and he
goes home and he burns it which is incredible he burns and he has to come
back for more at least when people buy a car that car is gonna last five years
anyway that pot doesn't last two weeks it's gone it's burned it's been
destroyed and they've got to come back for more now that is a perfect economy
from water bullshit in a bit of time you come up with a multi-billion dollar
industry where everybody's happy you know and so the fact that as taxpayers
all right once again this interview has been brought to you by the campaign for
the restoration restoration regulation of hemp the sponsors of our initiative
drive the Oregon cannabis tax act so we can have it here in Oregon that same
turnaround as Mark said two weeks they burn it up right we can create that
industry here and we're trying to do that with our petition the Oregon
cannabis tax act so if you have our petitions if you're one of the people
who's already called us and had a sent them to you send those back in right
away we need all of our petitions in no later than the end of June and if you
need more if you send them in we'll mail you back some more right away if you
haven't got them call us at two three five four six zero six that's two three
five four six zero six if you're outside of the Portland area 503 two three five
four six zero six only registered Oregon voters can sign and circulate this
petition but we need 73,000 signatures by the end of June to put this thing on
the ballot and here in early April what are we at about 24,000 yeah somewhere
around there in early April and if you have any questions about the initiative
give us a call we'll be happy to tell you how to make sure to fill it out
correctly make sure you know just one County solely on one page you make sure
you get that right only Lane County people can sign Lane County page can't
mix Lane County and Douglas County and we mail them out we kind of mail you out an
instruction sheet as well but if that doesn't make sense give us a call you
get a live person usually Bruce Bruce can walk you through it pretty well so
give us a call and help us out I mean really need you to help us out to bring
freedom back to Oregon to bring back that whole economy that Mark was talking
about where it's just a wonderful thing that you know people can buy it and then
two weeks later they have to go buy more because they're they've smoked it
up let's let our farmers do that exactly we need to give that keep this wealth
here let's not export it out so help us put the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act on the
ballot to tax and regulate adult marijuana sales legalize industrial hemp
legalize personal possession and cultivation and regulate medical
marijuana call us at 503-235-4606 exactly and give us a call and it's not
just regulate marijuana medical marijuana it frees medical marijuana it's
the choice between a doctor and a patient in closing I am a candidate for
Oregon State Representative in the Oregon House of Representatives in House
District 14 if you live in inner southeast Portland and the little far
northeast corner of inner northeast Portland please vote for me for state
representative on the May Democratic primary if you're a registered Democrat
or you're not registered with the party you're an independent you can vote in
the Democratic primary that's D Paul Stanford for House District 14 get our
petition to stop the drug war
