You've made history here in Oregon with legalization last year. It was just
coming on the verge of it and I'm so glad to be back again. And you know the
future really looks bright. It's all these clubs and stuff that are forming
there like community centers and that's what this movement's about. Unity of the
people through nature and a plant man. And you know when we're talking about
history, we're not only talking about history of people like Jack Hare and Eddie
Lep in prison and stuff like that, but people like Ray Crystal who I shared
this stage with last year man. Now he's gone but that brother did so much for
this cause you know. And Paul helped that brother out. Paul's done so much for this
cause too and it's really important to remember that. And when we talk about
cannabis history man, we're talking about tens of thousands of years of history.
According to the latest archaeological evidence, we've been making hemp fibers
for 32,000 years. This comes in the forms of tools used for breaking up the
fibers of hemp. We have evidence of hemp cloth 12,000 years old. You know what I
mean? So this is something that was spread out throughout the whole ancient
world. Oldest evidence of burning cannabis to inhale its fumes actually
comes from the Ukraine from 5,500 years ago from the Proto-Indo-Europeans. These
are the same people that domesticated the horse. Even the domestication of the
horse was thought to come about through the use of hemp rope. And so these same
people that were making hemp rope, domesticating the horse, they burned
cannabis. They spread the use of cannabis throughout the ancient world. And you
know I don't care where you're from in this world man, your culture has a
connection with this plant. Whether it be in China where they've been using
cannabis seeds and fiber for food and cloth for probably four or five thousand
years and burning it for probably like three thousand, four thousand years you
know. The oldest pharmacopeia is from China. The Pan-South thought to be 2,700
BC, 4,700 years ago. Cannabis is probably the first medicine. Currently they think
that cavemen may have been using cannabis to fight off parasites. So this
is coming from scientists. People like Dr. Guy Jeffries from GW Pharmaceuticals. He
suggests that cannabis played a role in the Great Leap Forward. This is when
humanity was discovering things like the making the wheel and how to
control fire. So cannabis may have played a role in that novel ability to think
and create in new ways. And in Mesopotamia and Assyria and Babylonia
they burned cannabis in the temples under the name Kanabu and also anointed
their skin with it. And this led over into the Hebrew use of it where people
like Moses used Cannabosom, the Hebrew name of cannabis and the holy anointing
oils and incenses man. Moses would cover his body in cannabis and myrrh and
cinnamon oils and then burn that on the altar of incense and actually speak to
the Lord and the pillar of smoke over the incense altar. And then in Persia,
Zoroaster man, one of the great prophets of the ancient world used cannabis and
infused wines. That was the main source of enlightenment in the Zoroastrian
religion. In India man, going back to the Stone Age, longest continually worshipped
God on earth, Shiva is the Lord of cannabis, also Lord of yoga, you know what
I mean? There's a whole movement of Ganja yoga going on right now because that's
how yoga was originally performed. You could go to India right now, see sadhus
and other holy men partaking of the holy chillum in honor of Shiva before
sitting down to their yoga practices. And Africa man, it's spread all over Africa.
Pygmies say that they've been using cannabis since the dawn of time and that
God gave them hemp so they'd be healthy and happy. So all over the world people
have recognized this powerful medicinal plant man, first medicine, first sacrament
and probably first recreational too, you know what I mean? Because it is
about feeling good and feeling positive and getting back into that vibration of
nature. You can go to any bar here in town, I bet you at closing time you see
fistfights outside of that bar. I bet you that never happens once in a medical
club or a recreational club with cannabis, just good vibes and that's what
this plant is about and that's what it's bringing to this planet right now in this
important time. We can use hemp to heal our planet, stop cutting down our old
growth forests. We can move away from fossil fuels with hemp fuel. We can feed
the world with the most nutritious plant on the world, hemp seed and hemp's coming
here to Oregon as well man. There'll be a huge de-hulled hemp seed, you know what I
mean? We can heal our economy. What's happening here right now in Oregon? Think
about not only these clubs but all the advertising dollars, graphic artist
dollars, all these sub-industries, people making concentrates, people growing it.
We're talking about the billion-dollar crop that Jack Herro preached about for
20 years taking place right now and this time and this here and you people
in Oregon are leading that battle man. I'm hoping next week when I go back to
Canada we have legal weed there on the federal level man. We've got an election on
Monday, the guy leading the poll says he's going to legalize cannabis. We'll be
the first country in North America to have federal legal cannabis. So we're
making the future right now and in the future as Bob Marley said in this great
future of ours, don't forget the past man. So pay respect to your ancestors who
brought this plant down through the ages. Listen to their wisdom, listen to their
love and take that with you and spread it around the world. God bless you all
man. Make way for the tree of life.
