It is time we stop arresting marijuana smokers and there's three basic reasons.
One is we're spending an estimated $10 billion a year chasing and arresting and prosecuting
otherwise law-abiding citizens simply because when they relax in the evening they prefer to smoke a joint.
That's idiotic and it's a waste of law enforcement resources.
Number two, prohibition invites the government into private areas of our life that are simply inappropriate.
Most Americans agree we don't want the government coming into our house to know what books we read,
the subject of our music we listen to, and certainly we don't want them knowing and watching our behavior in the bedroom.
Well neither do they have any basis to get involved in the decision as to whether we smoke marijuana or drink alcohol when we relax in the evening.
Now the good news is that when you ask the public how they feel about marijuana penalties,
you find that roughly 80% now say they support the right of a seriously ill patient to use medical marijuana when a doctor recommends it.
80%! Eight out of ten Americans.
Well then how come we've only won that in 13 states for Christ's sake?
It's because we need to take that support and convert it into public policy.
We know now that 76% of the public, three out of four Americans, agree with us on the basic premise
that you should not arrest and jail a marijuana smoker.
76%! Three out of four.
So we have largely won the hearts and minds of the American public.
Our challenge is to convert that into public policy.
By the way, more recently there was a poll taken nationwide by Zogby that Normal Commissioned
that showed 52% of the public nationwide now favor not just decriminalizing marijuana but legalizing it.
Legalizing it, taxing it, regulating it like we do alcohol.
And one survey by the Field Poll Company in California found 56% of the people in California now support legalization.
So, what does this all mean?
Well, it means honestly we're about to win this issue.
We're getting very close to it.
I think definitely in your lifetime, I hope in mine, but within five years
I think we're going to stop arresting marijuana smokers in this country
and the first few states are going to begin to experiment with legally regulated markets.
Justice Anthony Kennedy in writing for the majority in the U.S. Supreme Court recently
in a case said the following,
At the heart of liberty is the right to define one's own concept of existence, of meaning, of the universe, and of the mystery of the human life.
It is a promise of the Constitution that there is a realm of personal liberty where the government may not enter.
Well, as I said when I started, there's absolutely nothing wrong with the responsible use of marijuana by adults.
It is of no interest to the government and they should stop arresting and start respecting marijuana smokers.
In the end, we are only incidentally talking about marijuana.
We are really talking about personal freedom.
Join normal, stand up, legalize marijuana. Thank you.
