How about all these great volunteers? You see them up there?
Loney, Green Leaf, Mountain Wellness. I mean they're all over the place.
Support these people. These are the people that make a difference
just like you. You're here today and you're making a difference.
Right? Because we're not criminals. We're not criminals. We're patients. We're
people. We're cannabis consumers. And let me remind you, we are
government. People call me all the time. They say,
Madeline, government screwed up. And I say to them, you're government and
I'm government. Put your joint down. Step away from your
oil rig for a little while. And call those sons of bitches that
represent us in Washington D.C. and in Salem and let them know what you
want. Because we're government, right? You and
me. Do you agree with me? We're government and we're going to
change that shit. You know, everybody was really excited about Eric Holder
announcing that he's changing the rules, that he's
not going to arrest us for low level, what they call crimes,
possession. Well, you know what? That's a bunch of
bullshit. You know why he made that announcement?
Because society has changed their mind about us.
They now know that it's a bunch of BS what they've been feeding us for years.
Our brothers and sisters are going to prison.
Women are losing their children. And they have a medical marijuana card.
And I don't know about you, but you ladies out there, what do you think?
If you're a medical marijuana patient, should you
have to see your babies under supervision?
You know, if someone said to me, I'm going to take your baby because you
smoke pot, I would not be able to breathe. Right now,
we have a woman who came to town from Idaho because they took her babies
from her. Because the only medicine she can use
is marijuana. Is she wrong to use marijuana to stay
alive? I hear this line from them, from our opponents. What about the
children? What about Lindsay's children? They took
them away from her. I get upset about this. It really
bothers the shit out of me. I hope it bugs you too.
Doesn't it bother you? Doesn't it really upset you?
Well, you ladies, we're going to have the Normal Women's Alliance
High Team. And congressman, our congressman,
Earl Blumenauer will be at the Cannabis Cafe
representing our district. I hope that you'll come to the benefit.
We're trying to encourage women across the world. We're an international
organization trying to lead women to
change this law. These ridiculous, darkonian laws that we should not stand
up and support. And because of all of you, because of
Paul Stanford, Paul Noni, everyone, we are here today
free.
We want to live in a place like this. We want our children, my
granddaughter's here today. I want legal hemp so that we can save
our planet. We can have green jobs. How many of you
need a green job today?
Yes, and we have hemp. We can grow hemp in the state of Oregon.
And we can stop supporting China and Canada
and support Oregonians. And everybody can have health care. I know it sounds
like a dream, but dreams come true. Come to the Cannabis Cafe and see. And
next year, we are going to be legalizing marijuana.
We are going to have an initiative. And I want all of you to join me in
signing it and getting people to sign it because we are going to change
reality for all time. Prohibition will be a thing of the past.
Are you with me?
All right. Hey you guys, please donate to Hempstalk.
Help us make it work. It doesn't, we can't do it alone. We need church to part. So
when you see the buckets, give money and clean up after yourselves.
I love you. Drink water.
