Well you know what you guys, you guys are my heroes. You're here on this beautiful Portland day,
any day it doesn't rain, and I am so proud to be standing here speaking to you because you know
what you guys, you guys are freedom fighters. All of you, you came out, you made the trip to
Pioneer Courthouse Square. We are standing in Portland's living room and we are talking about
legalizing marijuana, deschedulizing because you know we legalized in the state but they're still
screwing with us. They're still messing with our law and they're still putting roadblocks
in the middle of everything. There's this, there's this actual language, legislation called
the Indoor Clean Air Act and I call it insidious. It is destroying the fabric of
the language that we pass, measure 91. It's just coming in there and destroying it. We cannot have,
we cannot have lounges. Why? Why can't we have a place where we can go meet up with a friend,
take a couple of puffs, enjoy a sandwich and then move on with our lives? There is no reason
and you know what, I'm not coming down on cigars but if they can have a cigar bar and now they're
trying to tell me that marijuana is too toxic. Too toxic? It's medicine. It is medicine for our bodies.
It is medicine for our planet. We all know this and they still keep on trying to tell us more lies
and I, I for one, I'm fed up. What about you guys? Are you guys fed up
with this schedule one bullshit? What? You know, don't try to make a fool of me and I don't want to
cause no rifts but we need to change the direction of our administration and we need to do it now
and you know what ladies, I'm so proud to say that you know I've been telling people this for years,
the power of the vajayjay and it is good. People have died, countries have been lost
and you know what, I think the current administration is going to lose and it's
going to because, partly because of the power of the vajayjay and you ladies, you need to learn how
to use that right. I know you're all stunned by my language but let's be honest, we're all grown-ups
except for these little kids and they really don't know where they're at. So, so anyway, no I'm, I'm
saying it. Look at, standing right here, Teresa Rayford, she is running for mayor.
She is running for mayor. She has the courage of her conviction to stand up and run for mayor of
this crazy-ass city. We used to call it Portland but now we call it pot land and, and you know what,
it's not a typo, it's a way of life. Am I right? You know, I used to work with that gentleman over
there, Russ Belville. I, I met him at the march years ago when, 13 years ago and I, and he came
to look for me. He was gunning to meet the lady that ran the global cannabis march. At that time,
it was million marijuana but anyway, we've had many years and a huge era. Organ normal is back
bigger than ever and you know what we've done? We actually introduced some, something that we
want you to participate in. Go to our organ normal Facebook page and read up about the NRA plan.
Yeah, you know what it is? You know the NRA, it rates legislators at the federal level and now
we're rating our legislators at the marijuana level and we're saying answer these questions
and if you can't, we just want to report it to the public in our green voter guide. So look at it,
go to the organ normal Facebook page or the website and find out what five questions you
need to ask your representatives and see if the answers come back in the, you know, positively.
That's what we're hoping for but we want to inform people and we want to grow the shit out of this
industry and we need to get this out of our way. So are you game? Are you gonna do it? Please do this.
Register to vote because if you don't vote, really your opinion doesn't matter and you guys in
wheelchairs, you rock. Deborah, where is miss uh, the granny? Oh, I love her. Anyway, I love you all and
please vote and please contact your representatives.
