I started drafting this thing, started drafting it way back in 1988.
So I didn't dream back then I'd still be working on it all these years later, but we finally
put it on the ballot.
And it is a transformative proposal.
It would make hemp and marijuana completely legal.
You'd be able to grow your own without a permit, license, or registration.
You'd be able to sell seeds and starts of all varieties of cannabis without permit,
license, or registration.
You want to sell the flowers, you'd have to get a license and you'd have to process it.
So there'd be a process around selling the flowers.
But you know, I really believe that the only reason marijuana is illegal is because of
hemp fuel and hemp fiber.
The word marijuana was based, as we know, on racist propaganda from the petrochemical
industry.
They realized that with new technology that made hemp cultivation a lot cheaper, that
the price of hemp products were going to fall dramatically.
Just as with the invention of the cotton gin, the price of cotton had fallen to a penny
on the dollar, the price of hemp was set to do that with the invention of new decorticating
machinery.
So they came up with a new name for hemp.
Everybody knew what hemp was.
They came up with a new name and they got it from Mexico, from a revolutionary war song.
Pacho Villa led the Mexican Revolution in 1911 and they had a song called La Cucaracha.
You guys might have heard it.
When I was a kid, I remember Bugs Bunny used to sing it.
La Cucaracha, la Cucaracha.
Anyway, in that song, I won't torture you anymore with my singing, but in that song
they said the cockroach smoked marijuana.
Well, when the Mexican Revolution happened, they nationalized the oil industry and the
Mexican petroleum production is still nationalized and run by the government.
Well, the oil barons in Pennsylvania and Texas did not like that.
So they took this word from this Mexican Revolutionary War song and they created a
whole misinformation propaganda campaign about it.
It said that there's this deadly new drug called marijuana.
It causes people to go crazy and kill their family and friends.
So based on that baloney, they were able to prohibit hemp.
But hemp is tied to our civilization.
In fact, if you go back over 12,000 years ago, all the new agricultural civilizations
in Asia were growing hemp.
Hemp was originally from high up in the Himalayan mountains in present day Tibet, Nepal, Kashmir,
Afghanistan.
And by at least 12,000 years ago, and perhaps over 30,000 years ago, people learned to cultivate
it and they spread down and formed civilizations all across Asia.
And the ones we know about today, we call Mesopotamia along the Tigris and Euphrates
River Valley in present day Iraq, are prehistoric China along the Yellow River, the Huanghe
in China.
And in those communities, they were growing hemp, that it's a common crop.
It's the oldest crop known to man.
And we know it produces more fuel, more fiber, more food, and more medicine than any other
plant on this planet.
But the petrochemical people realized that it was going to displace, with new technology,
it was going to displace a lot of their economic vital...
You know, petroleum is what economists call capital intensive.
Takes a lot of money or capital.
And they take tens of millions, hundreds of millions of dollars, in some cases billion
dollars to go out and drill for petroleum.
And it takes tens of billions, hundred billion dollars to refine petroleum into all the different
products we make it.
Hemp, you can grow very inexpensively and you can get a cheap oil press and get at least
300 gallons of oil per acre.
And the byproduct of that is three tons or 6,000 pounds of high protein hemp seed meal.
So hemp prohibition is really about fuel and fiber and the continued centralization
of economic and political control.
It's about this plant that makes more fuel, fiber, food and medicine than any other plant.
And so our initiative would completely restore that.
Hemp cultivation would not be limited to low THC strains.
Low THC hemp is bullshit.
There's no reason to grow low THC hemp.
It produces half as much fiber and one twentieth as much seed oil and protein.
What they've done with low THC hemp is they've bred out the flowers.
By breeding out the flowers, they've bred out the seeds.
And the seeds are where the oil's at.
And that's what they don't want us to have.
Because you can take hemp seed oil or a lot of other vegetable oils and pour it right
into any diesel engine and turn the key and drive it.
Now hemp is three times more productive than the next most productive seed oil crop.
Those are canola, our rapeseed, soybeans and sunflower seeds.
Each of those make about 100 to 120 gallons of oil per acre, where hemp makes at least
300 gallons of oil per acre.
Given the economics of biodiesel today, we should see hemp biodiesel for less than a
buck a gallon.
And the petrochemical companies don't want to compete with that.
So our initiative frees that and it's ballot measure 80.
You know, it's on the ballot this November.
The best thing you could possibly do is register and vote.
You haven't been registered in the past.
You haven't registered because you don't want to participate in the political process.
You didn't think there was anything worth voting for.
Well this year there is something worth voting for.
There's ballot measure 80.
You can vote to end marijuana prohibition and let our brothers and sisters out of jail
and restore hemp for fuel, fiber, food and medicine and completely transform our economy.
You know, they say the energy industry is the world's largest industry.
And the money that comes from that goes into the pockets of these Saudi Arabian sheiks,
Nigerian despots, Exxon Mobil, Shell, British Petroleum, and they put it into their Swiss
bank accounts.
When our farmers can get that energy money for hemp biodiesel fuel, that money will go
into our local communities and revitalize our towns and reorient our entire economy.
That's what it's all about.
It's really a conspiracy from the petrochemical, pharmaceutical, military, industrial, transnational,
corporate elite, fascist sons of bitches.
You know, my father was in World War II.
He was on a PT boat out in the Pacific fighting the fascists.
We defeated the Nazis in Germany and drove the fascists out of power.
And unfortunately, our government has all too often emulated those fascist policies.
You know, my father did not fight the fascists so we would have to pee in a cup for employment.
We need to end the crazy war on drugs and restore hemp for fuel and fiber.
So register, vote, and help us pass Measure 80 this November and change the world for
the better.
Thanks.
