We got two of the gentlemen very, very behind the I-1068 campaign for legalization of marijuana
in Washington state this year.
If you've seen any of these petitions around or heard about this, it's probably because
of one of these two guys or one of the many hundreds of volunteers across this state that
are busting their asses to get the signatures to do all this.
All of you people that are out here signing all these petitions for every other petition
outside of 1068, every one of these guys is a paid signature gatherer.
All of the 1068 signature gatherers are unpaid volunteers.
And we have got hundreds of thousands of signatures so far without the financial incentive behind
it.
And that's because this is what people want in this state, in this country, for this life.
So let's get together and get 1068 signed.
If you've signed anything else here today and you have not signed 1068, please do so
before you leave.
Get your friends to do so.
Tell your parents, tell everybody, sign this thing.
Whether you want it legal or you can't stand it, it doesn't matter.
Get on the ballot and vote for it.
That's how this country works.
So now a couple words from these guys.
So I've been a little too busy gathering signatures to actually prepare a speech, so I guess I'll
have to ad hoc it.
Who are you?
My name is Chris Van Putten and I coordinate the volunteer efforts throughout Pierce County
on behalf of 1068 to legalize marijuana.
So some people ask me, how did you come to do that?
How did you come to become a coordinator on behalf of 1068?
Well, I volunteered.
I started gathering signatures and I kept gathering signatures.
And after I kept gathering signatures and no one started stepping up as a coordinator,
I was selected and I said, hey, I want to help other people gather signatures too.
Originally, I guess it all started, you know, last fall.
Started learning about marijuana.
Before, I'd just been brainwashed.
Stigma, publicity, government, right?
I learned about it.
I read.
I read studies after study.
And the more I read, the less prohibition made sense.
So after I saw that 1068 was out, I signed the initiative, read it, realized I have to
make the change.
I have to help other people make the change.
When we want to see a change in the world, we have to make that change.
And we have to let the people vote on the change and let the government reflect the
popular opinion of society and my opinion of how the world should be doesn't coincide
with how it is.
So it's then my prerogative to coordinate and to help reform society and help all of
you to help 1068 and legalize marijuana.
Hello Tacoma!
Hey, I'm Don Skak, with Initiative 1068.
I'm the Northwest Washington field director, and we are getting it done.
And like you've been told, none of us are paid.
Everybody's been out on the streets.
They've been out in bad weather, cold weather, cloudy weather, sunny weather, hot weather.
They're getting it done.
But actually, they're not getting it done.
You are all getting it done.
Because without you, we can't put it on the ballot.
Our polling says that when you talk to voters, 53% say yes, 35% say no.
That is way beyond the margin of error.
All we need to do is get it on the ballot and people will vote yes.
But if we don't get it on the ballot, you're not going to have your chance.
They're going to send it back to the legislature where they can screw it all up like they tried
to sell it in liquor stores early this year.
That doesn't fly with my medicine next to dangerous alcohol.
Put this on the ballot.
If you have not signed 1068, register to vote if you're not already registered.
Sign it if you have not already signed it.
And more importantly, we are in the process of counting right now, and we've got a margin
of error of 7.5%.
And that is because of people like you that know that once you've signed it, that you've
done.
And because of our volunteers that are checking to make sure that you don't sign it more than
one time.
But lately we've had some problems with other signature gatherers from paid petitions claiming
to be us.
So at this point, it can't hurt.
If you're sure you've signed 1068, please don't sign it again.
And if you're not sure, if you don't remember if it was that one or not, or if you thought
it was 1068, but when you look at our sheet, take the time to look at what you're signing.
Make sure it's 1068 and get it signed.
We've got this event, we've got Taste of Tacoma, we've got Hoop Fest in Spokane, we've got
Gay Pride up in Seattle this weekend, we have every other thing that's happening in the
state.
And I can tell you from as someone that sat there in that office the last couple of days
and counted signatures, we're looking at the numbers and they are damn close people.
They are so close that we are either going to or going to not make it on the ballot by
the slimmest of margins.
So talk to everyone you know, ask them to sign, ask them to volunteer.
Pick up a petition out of the stranger this week.
If you put one signature on it and mail it in, awesome.
If you put five on it, God bless you.
And if you fill 20 of them up, you'll be one of the ones that has changed history and ended
prohibition in Washington state.
I can't tell you how often I've stood out for hours and had person after person come
up to me and say, you know, I can't sign this.
My boss won't let me, my government won't let me.
All you're signing is to put it on the ballot so the people can decide.
Your vote will be secret in November.
Don't let anyone tell you that you can't sign this because you'll lose your job.
This is your first amendment right to address, I'm sorry, to petition your government for
redress of grievances.
And when you look at the 14,000 people that will be released from prison and all the hundred
millions of dollars and Mark Emory, God bless you.
Mark Emory is in, plucked out of Canada, a sovereign country, a sovereign citizen,
and taken to America and put in a solitary confinement for trying to get medicine to
people.
Legalize marijuana for adults in Washington state.
We're responsible.
We can handle it.
It's only a plant.
It won't hurt you.
Just in case any of you are unaware of what you are holding in your hands, the picture
of Mark Emory that you see before you, this is a picture of a man that is held in a federal
penitentiary not 30 miles from where we are standing today, facing life imprisonment for
selling seeds.
This is a crime in his country.
There's a $200 fine for it and that's it.
In this country, he's looking at life in prison.
So, based on the fact that this guy has been doing everything he can for about the last
20 plus years to make your life better, if you've smoked pot in the last 20 years, you've
smoked something that Mark Emory was responsible for.
I guarantee it.
You owe this man a lot more than any of you know.
So what we're going to do for him, currently incarcerated, 30 miles that direction, is
we're all going to say three words very loud together a few times and we're going to send
them a message.
We are going to say, free Mark Emory!
Free Mark Emory!
Free Mark Emory!
Thank you!
And it is 420 people, but we are again asking you to not smoke anything in the park.
The last thing from 1068, do your duty and sign that petition, do your duty and vote
your conscience on November, but let's eliminate the basis for a lot of people in Washington's
convictions where they can't get housing, they can't get educational loans, they can't
get jobs, all because they made a choice safer than alcohol.
And I said it in Fremont and I'll say it here.
I'm a working man.
I want to go to work.
I want to support my family.
I want to pay my taxes.
And I want to make a choice that's safer than alcohol and I don't want to go to jail for
having made that choice.
Thank you!
Thank you everybody for showing up for the Tacoma Hemp Fest, staying calm, helping everybody
out, following the non-smoking rule in the park for tobacco, and just kind of helping
out in general.
If any of you see anybody that needs a hand, please try and lend a hand.
If you see garbage that's overflowing, you see anybody with one of these help shirts
on out here, let them know.
We're trying to get it cleaned up.
We want to be able to come back.
We need your help to get the city to let us do that next year.
If you don't want to travel to Seattle to go to one of these, help us keep it here.
Help us grow it bigger.
And if you register to vote here, you can sign the petition at the same time.
Alright everybody, we're about ready to get the PA going back up, get some music going
again.
So thank you very much for attending the first annual Tacoma Hemp Fest brought to you by
Eat'n Fly and Tacoma Hemp Company.
