1959, many years ago, I was a sophomore in medical school,
and I was smitten by an inappropriate stroke
of curiosity when I read a selection in a textbook called
Goodman and Gilman about cannabis, which
whetted my curiosity because it was prohibited,
but medically it sounded as if it was pretty benign.
This curiosity led me to read everything
in the medical school library, and then eventually permitted
me to infiltrate to the heart of the beast, the National
Institute of Mental Health, where
I was hired as a research psychiatrist to study cannabis.
At this time, cannabis was seen as a real threat to society
because in 1967 when I was there,
all hell was breaking loose with Lyndon B. Johnson trying
to keep up the pretext of patriotism
as he moved forward on the war in Vietnam.
And the anti-war demonstrations were just tremendous in scope.
I just wish we would see these kinds of protests again.
But marijuana was seen as something dangerous
that was being adopted by subversive organizations
like California communes.
And they saw the end of civilization coming near
because the legal governance was breaking down
as they sent more and more young men off
to be killed in Vietnam.
Unfortunately, I came out to California
and ended up defecting.
And there I fled and did my practice of psychiatry
until things started happening in California.
It happened starting in the Haight-Ashbury
and in the Castro in the response to the AIDS epidemic
where different kinds of effective medicines
were unknown.
But what was discovered was cannabis
would prevent nausea and vomiting
and permit the use of different kinds of medicines
for treating AIDS and the chemotherapy.
Well, this snowballed.
And what started in the Castro was
taken under the wing of the political pros.
And we went statewide.
And we passed Proposition 215.
Two years later, the same kind of thing
passed up here in Oregon.
Since that time, I've had opportunities
to evaluate over 11,000 patients for their use of cannabis.
And what has impressed me is cannabis
is both safe, effective, and a viable substitute
for many medications used to manage chronic illness that's
far safer and free from adverse effects.
Unfortunately, the forces of evil,
namely the greed of the pharmaceutical companies
coupled with the criminal justice sorehead losers,
don't want to admit this to be a medicine
and will do everything they can to suppress it.
