What is the actual state right now, Dr. Rebecca, of medical marijuana here in Oregon?
Well, what's going on right now is that a person who wants to use medical marijuana,
in other words, has a disease process which includes wasting disease of AIDS, multiple sclerosis, glaucoma,
and some people even use it for various and sundry types of pain problems.
And there is virtually, in particular, in regard to pain.
Pain is so subjective that there's no way for somebody to measure the degree of pain
or the intensity of pain or even the relief of pain or anything else.
There's just no way to do this.
But if a person says, I have a bad back or I have a bad this or a bad that,
and I'm in pain and that smoking marijuana helps,
I don't think that anybody should deny them the right to use that.
Now, what's going on in Oregon at the present time is that people who are using marijuana for medical purposes
have to get some sort of a letter from a physician which says marijuana will alleviate the problem,
pain or whatever it might be, for this individual.
This letter is sent to the Oregon Health Division.
Dr. Grant Higginson is the person who is the, I guess, he's not the director of the Oregon Health Division,
but he's the number two person there.
And the number one person is not a physician, but he is.
So he is the one to whom these letters are addressed,
and he is the one who will issue the equivalent of a marijuana user's license.
Now, the strange thing about it is that it is still a federal offense to, in many respects, about the use of marijuana.
So at the present time, nobody knows what's going to happen,
but this hasn't prevented people who get benefit from the use of marijuana from using it.
There are an estimated 100,000 people in the United States right now who admit to using it for medical purposes,
and there are probably, as I understand it, around 10 people, 10 million people, excuse me, who use marijuana recreationally.
Now, I think the so-called recreational use of this is kind of a poor term,
because I don't think people smoke tobacco for recreational purposes.
I don't know why people smoke tobacco, but whether it's for recreational purposes or whatever it is,
this is a sort of a strange terminology that is used.
It's like when they use alcohol, that's social drinking or something.
Well, I suppose that's true. I've never heard of the social...
Recreational use of alcohol.
Yeah, recreational use of alcohol and the social use of marijuana.
So the terminology here is very, very obscure or muddied or whatever the right word is.
Imprecise, at the least.
Absolutely.
Now, I think one of the strangest things about this is that the federal government raises marijuana in Mississippi.
The federal government has it harvested and processed to make marijuana cigarettes,
and there are eight people in the United States who have letters of permission from the Drug Enforcement Administration
to use marijuana for their medical purposes.
Now, if eight people can use it for medical purposes, for relief of their medical problem,
why can't nine or ten or a thousand use it?
So it's a very, very strange situation.
And a year and a half ago, I was one of six doctors who testified at the American Medical Association Convention
for the American Medical Association to stand behind the rights of patients to use marijuana for medical purposes.
And this was passed by the House of Delegates of the American Medical Association in Dallas.
The headquarters of the American Medical Association has, I don't know whether the word is they've sat on their hands
or sat on their heads or whatever they've done, but they haven't done anything about it.
And we six doctors have written a letter to the Journal of the American Medical Association
as the equivalent of a letter to the editor asking why hasn't the American Medical Association taken a stand on this.
Well, the first letter we wrote, they sent back that we're sorry, but we're rejecting it
because we have too many other things to print in the magazine or something like that.
And then about six weeks ago, the American, what is it, the Institute of Medicine.
Institute of Medicine.
The Institute of Medicine.
The National Academy of Science.
From the National Academy of Science came out, very highly publicized throughout the United States,
that there was considerable evidence that marijuana was good for certain medical problems.
And the American Medical Association has been strangely quiet about this,
but in view of the Institute of Medicine, we six doctors again wrote a letter to the American Medical Association
and the Journal of the American Medical Association saying the Institute of Medicine says that it has some benefit in medical purposes
and why should people who use it be thrown in jail for using it for medical reasons.
So as somebody pointed out a few minutes ago, we are at the cutting edge of this.
And with the vote, I guess the last two elections we had for medical, for use of medical marijuana.
Yeah, November of 98 here in Oregon and Washington and...
Arizona.
Arizona, they voted on it for the second time.
They originally voted in 1996 along with California to legalize medical marijuana.
And I think, if I understand right, there are six states who have passed initiatives. Is that what it is?
Yes, six. And then that's not counting the District of Columbia where the United States Federal Congress has not allowed that vote to be counted.
Exit polls show that it passed with 72 percent.
But an amendment to an appropriations rider by Georgia representative Bob Barr defunded the counting of that vote
and said that the District of Columbia cannot count the vote on medical marijuana that was on their ballot.
So Dr. Beck, I mean, Florida State, is there every day, you know, we find out new information about drugs that have existed for a long time?
I mean, it's not like the book is closed, you know, once they come out with a drug in the first place.
Well, I think it's very interesting that we know from historical records that cannabis has been used for literally thousands of years
and nobody has ever reported any bad effects from the use of it.
And when you compare that to tobacco or to alcohol, there's absolutely no comparison between tobacco, alcohol, and marijuana.
There's just absolutely none whatsoever.
And the statement that marijuana is a gateway drug to heroin or cocaine or whatever,
this was verbally thriced by the Institute of Medicine and said there was no evidence whatsoever that this was the case.
So I think the main thing that we're doing is supporting General McCafferty and a whole bunch of DEA agents who are making very high salaries
and don't want to give up the game, as you might say.
So the people that are making money on the marijuana issue are the DEA agents and the people who grow and sell marijuana
and don't pay any taxes on any aspect of the money that they make.
And if they're caught, they get sent to a federal prison where it costs at least $40,000 a year to keep them in prison.
So I guess the federal prisons, the guards in the prisons are probably also recipients of a lot of money from the marijuana business.
So it's really a strange, absolutely bizarre situation that this has gone on.
And I can't understand why some of these politicians in Washington, D.C. and elsewhere can't see this or understand it or whatever the right word is.
I don't understand it.
