Okay, so for those that don't know, my name is Jesse Sponberg.
I'm a lifelong resident of Portland.
I'm a medical marijuana patient, and I'm running for mayor of Portland.
And I'm running on a couple basic platforms like social justice and environmental stewardship
and accountability and transparency.
But one of my biggest platforms is marijuana, because we all love marijuana, right?
So I go to a lot of debates these days, and everybody always asks the question of me and
the other candidates.
They always say, how are you going to create more revenue for the city?
And they always got two answers.
Either cut programs or raise taxes.
And I sit there stoned, and I think to myself, do you guys not know anything about pot?
And then I realized that they really don't.
Anybody who's survived the last couple years of debacle trying to get the hemp stock permits
understands how little the people that are making the decisions for our city really understand
about marijuana.
I was shocked to find out that none of the five people on city council had ever even
been to hemp stock.
I found out the other day that Ted Wheeler and Jules Bailey never, ever smoked pot.
Jules Bailey, in fact, voted against Measure 91.
But somehow those two guys got the marijuana lobbyist endorsements, and I'm the guy speaking
at the freaking global cannabis march.
Cash ruins everything around us, people.
This is my transition right here.
You know, my whole life, my grandmother and all her hippie friends, all they wanted was
to legalize a plant.
All right?
That's all we wanted, man.
Free love, two fingers, legalize a plant, let everybody have it, reduce the value of
it as a commodity, make it no more important than any other garden crop that you would
share with your neighbors, like zucchinis, or when you get too many tomatoes, you share
them with your neighbors.
Right?
But greed has touched everything around us, and really, it's the lobbying interests that
are messing this shit up.
And if you don't believe that, then all you have to do is ask yourself, why the hell would
Ted Wheeler get an endorsement from the marijuana people?
Don't we understand that money is what's ruining all of this?
Not just our politics, but our personal freaking hash pipes.
You know what I'm saying?
Hey, this is all intersectional.
The greed ruins all of this.
So there's two points I want to make, and they relate to greed, really.
The first one is some of you guys are really disappointing me, okay?
So look, legalization is brand new.
Nobody knows how this works.
Nobody knows when you go to free marijuana Mondays how to act.
Do you stand in line?
Do you run?
Do you yell?
Do you trample?
Do you smoke on premises?
When you come to a place like this, do you yell?
Do you heckle?
When you're doing hash deals with people, how do you act?
Look, it's our job in this new frontier to create the social norms and the rules by the
way shit operates, right?
And I don't think we're doing a very good job of it.
You guys are really disappointing me with all the stories that I hear about people burning
each other.
You know what I'm saying?
People like Anthony Hardy and Anthony Shanks.
I woke up this morning to find out another dispensary burned another friend.
This shit is shady and I don't know if it's because y'all smoke too many dabs and that
shit's like crack, but I mostly stick to flour so I can see how this is turning into a dangerous
subculture of drugs.
No different than the dope game or the crack game.
It's not supposed to be like the dope game.
It's supposed to be the old ladies smoking freaking fat joints on the backyard with a
bug light.
But that's okay because growing pains are natural.
At this time last year, it wasn't even legal to smoke.
So sorry, I started daydreaming.
So you guys are the ones who have the responsibility in this brave new frontier to set the
standard for how you behave.
Now the reason that I want you to elect me the mayor is because our city council is not
supportive of the small business aspect of the marijuana industry.
They don't care about the patients.
Now listen, I don't want you misunderstood.
I don't have any jurisdictional authority over the OHA.
I don't have any jurisdictional authority over the legislators down in Salem that are
screwing us, right?
But I do have the voice or I will have the voice, I do right now, I have a soapbox.
But imagine the soapbox that I would have as the mayor of Portland, turning Portland
into the biggest marijuana capital in the world.
You know what I'm saying?
There's no reason that we can't just take everything over, have the biggest festivals,
have the most beautiful hemp stocks.
Right now if you're a tourist and you come to Portland, Oregon, there is nowhere that
you can smoke pot.
You go to one of our beautiful dispensaries, you buy a nice $7 effing joint.
Cash ruins everything around me.
So you, okay, you buy a $7 joint, where are you gonna smoke it?
You can't smoke it on a sidewalk.
You can't smoke it in the park.
You can't smoke it in your rental car.
Are you with me, Steve Wessing?
You can't smoke in your damn hotel room.
You gotta go smoke in a closet with Steve Wessing.
Come out the closet, Steve.
Okay guys, enough about me, I'm sorry, I get so sick of talking about myself.
Please keep me on your radar.
My name is Jesse Sponberg.
The election is on May 17th.
I don't know what day it is, I think there's 10 days left till the election.
You should already have your ballots.
Just mark Jesse Sponberg, hopefully mark Bernie Sanders.
