We can stop the madness of marijuana prohibition. There are people out there
that are in jail today like Mark Emery. We saw his wife here a little bit ago. He
was sentenced yesterday to five years simply for selling a seed. And if you go
to Malaysia, there are people in Malaysia that are sentenced to death. Just this
week they sentenced a guy to death for just about three pounds of marijuana. And
there are people already scheduled to hang in Malaysia for 300 grams. I think
I'm carrying around about that much right now you know. So anyway we've got
to stop this stuff. You know people are being incarcerated. It's ruining their
lives. We're losing our children. Even medical marijuana patients have to go
through hell. You know in Washington State the medical marijuana law just
right over there across that river is just an affirmative defense. And you know
that the medical marijuana law is great. It's helped a lot of people. Sick
people have an option now. But it's not the solution. It's a step. And what we
really want to do is just completely legalize marijuana and hemp. And that's
what we're working for. You know in California there is a historic vote
Proposition 19. Back in 1974 there was a vote in California that was also called
Proposition 19. And coincidentally it was also a marijuana vote. It was the first
marijuana vote. And it got about 40% of the vote back then. But this year's
Proposition 19 looks like it's going to win. If we can get our voters out we
will win there. We also have an initiative here in Oregon that will help
medical marijuana patients. That's ballot measure 74. One of the chief petitioners
was just up here Anthony Johnson. So we strongly support ballot measure 74. We
urge you to get out there and help us get it passed and mobilize and register
and vote. Because that's really one of the keys here as we know in this system
is to register and vote and get our voters out. You know the polls show that
ballot measure 74 here in Oregon can pass by a good majority. But if you go to
the list of the people who are likely voters. People who say yeah I'm
definitely going to vote. It's a lot lot closer. We're only ahead by a couple of
points. Where the polls show we're ahead by about 10 points overall. But among
likely voters it's much much closer. That means our unlikely voters need to get
off their duff and get out there and vote. And get their friends to vote.
Because that's the only way we're going to make a difference here. You know we
need to work for global cannabis freedom. And that's what this event is about. We
want to end adult marijuana prohibition and restore industrial hemp for all the
many things that industrial hemp does. Key among those is energy. We think that
when marijuana is legal we'll be driving most of our cards on hip seed oil. Most
of the time on the world's most productive biodiesel resource. And the
byproduct from that is food. An acre of hemp according to a study out of
University of Southern Illinois that was published in Notre Dame back in 74. An
acre of hemp wild hemp feral hemp here in the United States will produce 8,500
pounds of seeds per acre. When you press that you get over 300 gallons of oil per
acre. That's six barrels of oil per acre. Just from a cold pressing of the seed.
And the residue out of that 8,500 pounds of seeds is 6,000 pounds of high
protein hip seed meal. So if we start driving our cars on hemp fuel the waste
product will wipe out world hunger. It's really a miracle plant. I believe that
hemp and cannabis are the greatest gift from our mother earth. From the Creator.
And it's our job to bring that back. And it's going to take us all educating our
fellow Americans and getting out there and voting. So I urge you if you're not
registered to vote go over to the THCF booth over here and register to vote. We
have a petition over there that will legalize marijuana here in Oregon in
2012. We're gathering some sponsorship signatures on that. So if you are a
registered voter here in Oregon go right over to the THCF booth which is right
over there. Corner. And sign that petition. You know I want to in closing urge you
folks to work for global cannabis freedom. To help those people in Malaysia
who are sentenced to death and they're going to hang and their families are
left there to deal with that. To help the people like Mark Emery and Eddie Lepp
who've spoken on this stage. So they aren't incarcerated and aren't left in jail.
We need to work for global cannabis freedom. To help our mother earth the web
of life all the plants and animals on this planet. We need to restore balance
to the energy industry and hemp will do that. The way we can help that is to work
for global cannabis freedom. And for those of our brothers and sisters who
have fallen on the way like Jack Herr who last year suffered a eventually
fatal heart attack right here at our Hipstock Festival. Gave his last speech
right here on this stage. And for Dr. Todd McCrea who helped push medical
marijuana and spoke for the first two years on this stage. For all of our
brothers and sisters who've fallen along the way I urge you to work for global
cannabis freedom. Help us restore hemp. It's the healing of the nation. Thank you.
Thank you Paul Stanford.
