I appreciate all you guys coming to support this great, great rally that we have for freedom.
We're marching today, we're marching for cannabis, we're marching for freedom, we're marching
for our rights to make things happen in our community.
I met a group of people out in Harrisburg, Oregon, who decided that they would like to
import hemp from Spain through France.
And so we did, and we had to get the DEA's permission.
So we imported this hemp, and then we took that hemp and we made boards out of it.
This is really a nice guitar, and this is a really old piece of wood.
Wood is older than the guitar.
So what's going on is, I've got this piece of wood that's 20 years old, and it hasn't
aged a day.
It was made out of hemp fibers that we imported from Spain through France.
And we were able to prove through this piece of wood right here, or actually medium density
fiber board, that we could actually create medium density fiber board.
And that because of that, we have the ability to change the dynamic in the woods.
That we proved this 20 years ago, but because we do not have, anywhere in the world, we
do not have enough adequate supply to actually do it.
I mean, nobody's growing hemp fields in the United States unless you run out in Nebraska
and get some of the ditch weed.
I mean, it is everywhere.
You know it is.
You've seen it.
And that's what's going on.
You know, we just don't have real supply.
If we ever had a supply, I mean tomorrow, we could be producing boards out of hemp.
We could be turning all the herd in the inside of the stock into viscose and making, you
know, chairs for astronauts that will never break.
You know, we could do things that you couldn't, you couldn't even imagine.
But we actually can, because we've got a big imagination.
So one of the reasons that I keep fighting, that I've been doing this for over 30 years,
is I believe, I believe, I believe.
One of the things, folks, you've got to remember that now as we're going towards legalization,
we need to have rights.
You know, you can't just accept any medicine that's out there, any marijuana that's out
there.
You know, NORML, especially here locally, Oregon NORML, they're your consumer's rights
organization.
You know, they're the ones that are going to help you make sure that your medicine,
your recreational substance, your religious substance is yours.
So remember that, folks.
Support Oregon NORML, support National NORML, because they're the consumer movement for
you.
You know, it's like we need a consumer movement now that we're going to be legalized soon
here in Oregon, 2014.
So we really need to stay close to that and watch the medicine that we have.
And folks, yes, you know, we've got to remember, you know, it's going to be legalized soon,
but it's not yet.
So you've got to be, you know, careful out there, right?
Everybody knows how to be careful, right?
You've got to be really smart about what you're doing out there.
You know, it's one of the few things that we have to worry about if you're a cardholder,
is, you know, not in the public.
Because we'd all love right here to smoke a giant bowl right now.
I see Ross, he's looking mighty thirsty for a bowl, but right now Ross is going to smoke
a bowl because he knows that's against the law.
Ross is smart.
Thank you, Ross.
Ross is afraid of jail.
Yes, Ross is afraid of jail.
I'm afraid of jail.
We should all be afraid of jail, right?
We don't want to go there.
It's not for marijuana activists.
They don't allow us.
You know, you can't use your medicine in jail.
So why would you want to go to jail?
So in order to stay out of jail, folks, we've got, you know, we've got the four sayings
to help keep you out of jail.
So I'm going to say these, and I want everybody here to say them after me.
So when an officer approaches you, whether you're in your car, on your bicycle, on foot,
and anywhere an officer approaches you, say, am I free to go, officer?
Am I free to go, officer?
Oh, wait a minute.
We need it louder than that because the officer didn't hear you.
Am I free to go, officer?
Am I free to go, officer?
All right.
The next one is, this is important because they'll try and trick you.
You want to say, I do not consent to any searches.
I do not consent to any searches.
Okay.
And then, you know, you want to make sure you're able to contact one of these, somebody
like myself here.
So I wish to speak to an attorney.
I wish to speak to an attorney.
Yes.
And remember, and then the other thing now, our Supreme Court, U.S. Supreme Court, in
their wisdom, has said that you must speak to remain silent.
It doesn't make sense, but who's, you know, these are just some old folks in Washington,
D.C.
So number four is, I wish to remain silent.
I wish to remain silent.
But not right now, folks.
Remember that.
So, all right.
And I really want to thank everybody for coming out.
And remember, you've got to practice these sayings every day.
Brushing your teeth when you're riding a Max, riding a bus, mumbling to yourself, look like
one of those people on a bus you don't want to sit next to.
Right?
So, am I free to go, officer?
Am I free to go, officer?
I do not consent to any searches.
I do not consent to any searches.
I wish to speak to my attorney.
I wish to speak to my attorney.
And I wish to remain silent.
I wish to remain silent.
All right, thanks, folks.
Awesome.
Hey, like Herb said, I do a lot of this stuff nationally for 420 Radio.
In the past five years, I have done 78 appearances in 33 cities across 17 states.
Atlanta, Georgia, and Orlando, Florida, and Joplin, Missouri, and Houston, Texas.
I've been all across the country here.
And it's the same everywhere I go.
Pot smokers are the same everywhere I go.
They're all kind and compassionate, good, decent, law-abiding people.
Well, except that one law.
But other than that, really good people, and there's no reason any of them deserve to be treated like second-class citizens.
And as we do this activism, one of the problems that comes along is people don't take it seriously.
Oh, you're marching for pot?
You want to legalize weed?
Isn't there something better to do?
Can't you think of something more useful to do?
Well, let me explain something.
Because a lot of people don't take this very seriously, even in our own community sometimes.
They just think it's about getting high.
Let me tell you a little story about my home state, Idaho.
I just got back from Idaho because a friend of mine named Lindsey Reinhart,
who is the chief petitioner for their medical marijuana bill out there,
she's a multiple sclerosis patient.
There was an incident at school.
Some kid got a hold of some weed.
So naturally, they blamed her kid for giving it to them, even though there was no evidence of that.
Just because she's the top medical marijuana person.
And then sent cops to her house, took her kids away to foster care,
and now she's facing felony charges.
That same exact week, there was a case just across the county
where a woman left her 3-year-old and her 10-month-old in the car alone,
went back into the house, neglecting the fact that she had a loaded .45 in the car.
The 3-year-old got a hold of the loaded .45 and shot the 10-month-old in the cheek.
Did she get her kids taken away from her for child endangerment?
No.
Did the cops come to her house and start to charge her with endangering kids
and feel like they need to be put in foster care?
No.
But the multiple sclerosis patient who's using cannabis as medicine is a danger to her kids?
That ain't right.
And this is not just an isolated case.
Look up Daisy Bram.
B-R-A-M. Daisy Bram in California.
In California, people, where there's medical marijuana since 1996,
she's been charged with child endangerment because she was breastfeeding
and she's a medical marijuana patient.
And they say, oh, you're passing cannabinoids through the breast milk to your baby.
Despite the fact that breast milk naturally has cannabinoids in it in the first place.
I found five cases in the past week
where children aged four and under had gotten a hold of a loaded weapon
and fired it, either hurting or killing themselves, another kid, or an adult.
Five cases.
Not one of those cases were the parents charged with child endangerment
or neglect or being reckless or any charge.
It was just an accident.
Oops, you left your kid alone with a loaded weapon.
Oops, just an accident.
That same week, I found five more cases
of people busted for having a marijuana plant in their home
where they were charged with child endangerment
and the kids were put into foster care.
That's why I come out here every year to march.
That's why I fly coach all over this country to talk to people.
And that's why I will not stop until we have the same equal rights
as our beer drinking friends.
Are you with me?
Now remember, activism starts with act
and you've done the first thing by acting today.
You went out and did more than 99% of any cannabis activist ever does
and you put your feet on the street
and you put your face in public
showing that you support this.
So give yourselves a hand.
And remember, this is not where it ends.
We have bills in the legislature right now
to reduce the penalties for possession of marijuana
between one ounces and four ounces.
We have bills to add PTSD to the medical marijuana conditions.
We have bills that would actually just outright legalize marijuana.
But they ain't going nowhere unless you talk to your elected officials.
Now I know, they're not on your speed dial or nothing.
I know, it's not like the first person you're going to call every day.
But talk to this guy, National Cannabis Coalition.
Talk to this guy, Oregon Normal.
Talk to any of the activists, long-time activists out here
I'm sure they can turn you on to Oregon Normal, National Cannabis Coalition,
SAFER, MPP, I don't care what acronym you want to put behind your name
as long as you're marching with me for freedom.
So let's do it, let's stick together, talk to your legislatures.
We can get positive progress here in Oregon.
And one final thing.
There's some people at the national level, and I get to talk to a lot of them
on a direct basis, who think Oregon ought to wait till 2016 to go for legalization.
They say in 2016 it'll be a slam dunk.
Well, what I don't understand is
why wouldn't it be a slam dunk even if we did try in 2014?
Why not try the 7-foot jumper in 2014?
And if it doesn't go in, we'll rebound and do the slam dunk in 2016.
Sounds right to me. Let's fight for 2014, and let's fight for 2016.
Because I don't know about you, but there are 199 Oregonians
getting arrested every month for marijuana.
And remember, marijuana's decrim here.
Anything over an ounce is a felony.
So that's 199 felony arrests every month.
Those people can't wait till 2016.
Let's get the ball done. Let's do it in 2014.
Legalize it!
It's a beautiful day in Potland, Oregon.
It's so great to be here.
Just to follow up on what Russ said,
we are seeing such great, tremendous success all across the country.
Last week, St. Louis, Missouri decriminalized marijuana.
Springfield, Missouri decriminalized marijuana.
Maryland just legalized medical marijuana.
Rhode Island just legalized medical marijuana dispensaries.
Washington and Colorado legalized marijuana for all adults.
Here in Oregon, we have a bill, 3371,
that we hope to get referred into 2014
that will legalize marijuana for all adults,
allow home-grow, the great provision.
I encourage you to check that out.
We got PTSD added as a qualifying condition
under the Medical Marijuana Act.
That passed the Senate.
Reducing marijuana penalties from 29 grams to 112 grams
so it's no longer a felony, it's a misdemeanor.
That's likely to pass this year.
Oregon's likely to have an unprecedented success
at the Oregon legislature this year.
It's done because of activists.
It's done because of people like you.
You call your legislator, and not more than call your legislator,
you just tell your truth.
Everybody out here has a truth about cannabis
and about how cannabis doesn't hinder your life.
It helps your medical condition.
It makes you more creative.
It doesn't impair your life in any way.
You keep spreading that truth
to person after person, your friends and family.
That message just spreads.
And the truth shall eventually set us all free.
So keep coming to marches like this.
Support Urban Design, 420 Radio, Normal,
Oregon Green Free, National Green Friends.
Everybody out here is working for the cause.
Campaign for the restoration and regulation of hemp.
Support everybody.
Today, a day like this, we're united on May 4th.
And I also want to mention, if you've got a smartphone or anything,
text NCC to 420420
and a couple of you win some free t-shirts today.
So text NCC to 420420
and get you some free t-shirts.
And on a beautiful day like this,
may the 4th be with us all.
Thank you so much.
Hemp Hemp Hooray!
Hemp Hemp Hooray!
Hemp Hemp Hooray!
Hey, I want to talk to you about two things
and I want to ask you to do two things, okay?
The first thing is that I'm a proud member of the
Normal Legal Committee,
a national organization to reform the marijuana industry.
Reform the marijuana laws.
And our legal committee is about 450 lawyers nationally
and we look after folks that are
charged with cannabis-related offenses
and we do education and outreach and other stuff.
But lately, the leaders of Normal,
Alan St. Pierre, the Executive Director,
and Keith Straub, the legal counsel,
have been making public statements
that aren't really what Normal's about.
Alan's been saying, for example,
that medical marijuana's a sham.
Normal doesn't think medical marijuana's a sham.
Normal doesn't think medical marijuana's a sham.
But Alan says that publicly.
Keith says, oh, five nanograms, that's okay.
You know, that's probably a reasonable level
for driving on the influence.
And that's not Normal's position at all.
Normal's been fighting hard
to make sure that there aren't, per se,
driving on the influence laws passed.
And so what I'd like you to do,
the first thing I'm going to ask you to do
is I want you to write to Alan
and Keith and say,
So the first thing I'm going to ask you to do
is I want you to write to Alan and Keith.
It's alan at normal.org,
N-O-R-M-L dot org,
and keith at normal.org,
N-O-R-M-L dot org.
And let them know that you heard me talk about this
and ask them to knock it off!
To quit saying stuff
that's not Normal, okay?
Can you do that for me?
We are, after years
of playing defense,
we've been winning!
We're moving bills!
And I'm also here
on behalf of Compassionate Oregon.
Compassionate Oregon is
Anthony Taylor and
the, gosh, what's
her name, Cheryl Smith, the director
of Compassionate
Center in Eugene.
And Anthony's been lobbying, not Anthony Johnson,
but Anthony Taylor's been lobbying on behalf
of Compassionate Oregon, and this
is what we've been doing. We had a bill
to add PTSD
to pass the Senate 19-11.
There's going to be
a hearing in the Health Committee
in the House on the 15th
and then it's going to pass the House
and then the Governor's going to sign
it and then we're going to have
PTSD finally as a condition
that will qualify
patients in Oregon.
I caught up with Russ
Belleville about a week after he
stopped working with Normal and said,
what should we do?
In the session, Russ said,
it makes me crazy that in
Washington, because this is before it was legalized,
sort of,
not sort of before, but sort of legalized,
in Idaho
and even Utah
and California all have misdemeanor
marijuana laws, but in Oregon
if it's less than an ounce
it's a
violation, but more than an ounce it's a felony
and any amount of hashish
or hash oil
or honey oil or anything
that's derived from the plant
is a felony no matter what the quantity
is. Well,
I know, guess what?
The Oregon Senate,
I want to say 18-12,
passed a law that says
if it's more than an ounce but less than
four ounces, it's a misdemeanor
and if it's less than a quarter ounce
of hashish or hash oil,
it's a misdemeanor.
That's going to go to the House,
it's going to pass the House, it's going to go
to the Governor
and it's going to become the law.
We're going to have misdemeanor marijuana
in Oregon. There's another bill
that the Oregon Criminal Defense Lawyers
Association has
worked on that
you know, if you, I don't know if you know,
but a lot of people get these tickets
for less than an ounce and just pay the fine
and next thing they know they get a letter
in the mail from the Department of Motor Vehicles
or license, it's suspended for six months.
Anybody know
anybody that happened to besides me
and John Lucy
and Paul Loney?
No, anybody? Well, anyway,
trust me, that happens and
it's wrong and the Oregon
Senate voted, I kid you not,
24-6 to
make it that the
license suspension can't happen anymore
for less than an ounce
and that bill is going to go to the House
and it's going to pass the House and it's going to get signed
by the Governor and it's going to become the law in Oregon.
We are through planned defense.
We are moving laws.
All we do is we show up and say
you know what, it's going to be legal.
It's either going to be legal
this session or next session
or the next election cycle
or the election cycle after that
and we need to do things that create
a glide path towards legalization
and they're agreeing with us.
Okay, so
Anthony Taylor
is volunteering his time
lobbying. I've been volunteering
my time, but you know
Anthony lives out in McMinnville.
He's got a drive down to Salem
almost daily.
He's got expenses. After I'm
done talking, I'm going to walk around
and I've got my
bicycle helmet here and the bicycle
helmet has holes in it and that's because
no change, brothers and
sisters. I need some folding money
that we can contribute to
Compassionate Oregon to make
the rest of these bills actually become
law. Okay, thank you
and God bless.
Because you know, as we all know
alcohol prohibition didn't really end
until the women got involved and I believe that's true
for cannabis prohibition too.
So, I, although I'm not
speaking just to the women today, I really
strongly suggest that
it's time for women to step up and stand next
to our brothers who have been fighting this fight
for 40 years. It's time for it to end.
People may not know it, but
cannabis prohibition is over. It's over.
It's just a matter of time.
And I keep hearing these large organizations
tell us to wait until 2014.
Wait until 2016.
I'm tired of my
brothers and sisters getting put in jail.
I'm tired of
kids being taken from their families
because they choose to use a
perfectly safe
intoxicant after work.
I am tired of being
scrutinized for
using a benign plant
as my way to relax in the evening.
And I don't want to wait until 2014.
I don't want to wait
until 2016.
So I am calling my
state legislature every
day and I am telling them
it's time for them to support
and pass HB
3371.
That legalizes cannabis for
all of us. That doesn't leave
anybody out. You don't have to have
PTSD. You don't have to have
a card. You don't have to do anything but
be over 21.
Works for me, right?
We can do this now.
If every one of you makes the call,
we can do this now. I can
give you the number. Pull out your phones. I'll wait.
Pull out your phones.
I'll wait. I'll give you the number to call right now.
You ready?
You ready?
Here we go. It's free to call.
800
332
2313
2313
That number again
is 800
332
2313
2313
Call it. Give them your zip code.
When they hook you up with your representative,
you just have to say one sentence.
Please support and
pass HB
3371.
That ends it for all of us.
And it ends it now.
That bill creates an emergency
situation which would
enact the law immediately.
That means we don't have to wait
until MPP says we can do it in 2016.
That means we don't have to wait
until NORML says we can do it in 2014.
That means we can do it now.
All you guys gotta do is call.
That's all. It won't take a huge amount
of us to make those calls to make this happen.
Because they take the impact
of those phone calls as being the voice of
20 of us. So imagine that, people.
Every one of you out here,
all 100 of you or however many there are,
by you making the call, you represent
20 more of us.
By making that call, you represent 20
fellow cannabis consumers.
So let's make this happen
now. Let's not wait.
I don't want to wait. I don't want people to
go to jail anymore for weed. It's stupid.
It's cost inefficient.
And it's just plain wrong.
So please join me and call
800-332-2313.
And Anna was speaking on House Bill
3371. Guys, one thing you need
to realize about that is
that's not us getting that together. That's the
legislator getting that together. That's them.
They're doing this. And so what they
need is us to be the
foot soldiers. They need us to help them.
So it's up to us to
help them pass
what we need. So sometimes that's how it works.
Last year was Measure 80.
We didn't get that passed. That was us.
The difference is, is they're looking at
Washington, who is already legalized
and now they are making
a move because they don't want Washington to make
all the tax money. Why do they want
Oregonians going to Washington?
All you got to do is drive across the bridge. Why do
they want that? So they're being smart right now,
guys, and they need us to help
them. So everybody pay attention.
As Lee Berger also talked about earlier,
PTSD, and there's other
things, you know. You get busted
once, you can lose your driver's license.
Are you kidding me? I've known people that
that's happened to. Trying to get that changed, too.
So everyone, pay attention.
Let's unite today under one banner.
Normal, Normal Women's
Alliance, Oregon Green Free, THC,
all of the organizations,
Green Leaf Labs,
everybody, the Wellness
Center, Cannabalist, we're all
out here doing the same damn
thing. Trying to end
prohibition. Like Anna said,
I'm tired, tired, tired of
seeing my people go to jail.
I deal with women every day
and men that cry because
their children are taken away from them.
You know, you think
medical marijuana is enough, but it's
not enough to protect
your parental custody rights.
They will take your baby.
And just like
Reinhard, is that what her name is?
Lindsay Reinhard, she came over here and
spoke here for freedom and they
took her baby from her.
How can you think medical
marijuana is enough?
It is not enough.
When our people are being incarcerated,
when our economy is suffering
while other countries' economies
prosper from industrial havoc,
it is ridiculous.
And you know what the biggest complaint
as we moved forward with our
House Bill 3371
was? We didn't
get complaints from the state police.
We got complaints from
the local sheriff saying, where's our
cut? So this is time for us
to do it. You contact
your representatives and you let
them know that it is time
to move forward with House Bill
3371
to allow us
to build colleges and not
more prisons. Let's send our
kids to college.
Let's stop sending our
kids and our future to prison.
You know, I'm the
grandmother of six children.
Three boys, three girls, and
I'm proud as hell. And you know
what I fear every day? That
they are being disproportionately
not only
incarcerated, but racial
profiling is a huge problem
across the nation.
Our prisons are filled with
blacks and whites and poor
whites and brown people like me.
And I'm tired of it.
You know,
just because we brought
marijuana to this country,
god dang, guys,
we try to do something good.
Y'all
love it when you're getting high. Don't put
us in jail now.
Right? Help us out, folks.
And I want to thank Russ
and Iko, this guy who took over
Oregon Normal, and it lives
on, baby.
Scott, Paul Loney,
Lee Berger, all of you guys.
I love you all. Come to the
Cannabis Cafe. Let's go party.
Good girl.
John Lucy, Law420.com.
I represent
Anonymous as well as
Occupy as well as the global cannabis
movement. So, what I'm
here today to do is something really simple.
I'm here to help you protect your rights.
So, I'm going to read a little bit of information
that's on every single one of my business
cards back in front that you need
to know when you deal with the cops
or you deal with anyone who's trying to
get you in front of the cops. And it's really simple
and I want you to listen and repeat it back to me.
So we're going to do a little call and response. Everybody
know how to do that? Everybody got that?
Okay. Remember to be
polite. Okay? That's the
critical part of this. Don't be a jerk to
the cops. Just be polite.
They hate it more than anything when you know
your rights. So,
I do not consent to any searches.
I do not consent to any searches.
I do not wish
to answer any questions.
I do not wish to answer any questions.
I invoke
my right to silence.
I invoke my right to silence.
And I wish to consult with my attorney.
And I wish to consult with my attorney.
We're going to do it again.
You know why? Because if you remember
this, you'll probably never pay me a dime.
I do not
consent to any searches.
I do not consent to any searches.
I do not wish to answer
any questions. I do not wish to answer any questions.
I invoke
my right to silence. I invoke my right to silence.
I invoke my right to silence.
And I wish to consult with my attorney.
And I wish to consult with my attorney.
If you can't remember that, I've got
wristbands. They just say I want
my lawyer.
Cards are over there
if anybody needs them. You guys have a wonderful day.
Unfortunately, I've got a client in
custody. I've got to go over to the jail and take care of it.
I love you guys. Stay safe.
That's how John Lucy does, guys. He's always
working. He's always
working for freedom and
supporting the many, many
great and wonderful activists,
patients, and people
that we have in this cannabis community.
This song is called
Medication Recreation.
Cannabis,
ganja, marijuana.
Educate
to Medicaid and recreation.
No medicine
can do nothing
quite like this.
So please
give me my cannabis.
Y'all see
I smoke the kind of weed that you see
in your dreams. Straight out of high times,
man, you should see this green.
CBDs, LNNs, and that
THC. And you best not forget
about that THC-B.
Yes, so these are the things that your
body may need to help get rid
of your pain or maybe cure your disease.
So sit back with a sack of the
finest trees. Roll one up and
give your body what you know it needs.
I'm out here
Cannabis, ganja, marijuana.
Educate
to Medicaid and recreation.
No medicine
can do nothing
quite like this.
So please
give me my
cannabis.
Y'all know I hit that green carpet with all the pop stars
At the High Times Cannabis Cup and do you know where you are?
Smokin' with my friend LK in that VIP And it's time for oil dabs, I guess I'll
take two or three Yes and then we'll smoke that J and pass along
those medibles Have you seen this place, man?
These things are so incredible, just think about it
Weed as far as the eye can see So come on and legalize it, give the people
what they need Cannabis, ganja, marijuana
Educate to Medicaid and recreation No medicine can do no thing quite like this
So please give me my cannabis Cannabis, ganja, marijuana
Educate to Medicaid and recreation No medicine can do no thing quite like this
So please give me my cannabis
Thank y'all very much, my name is Justin James Bridges
You can check me out at justinjamesbridges.com
Free the weed!
