The message I want to get out is that marijuana is good.
There's no reason for it to be prohibited.
Marijuana is good for us. It's good for our bodies.
It helps our health and longevity.
It helps the health of our planet.
When we stop using petrochemicals and start using hemp for fuel,
we're going to change the whole economic paradigm.
Instead of our money going into the hands of Exxon, Shell,
the Saudi sheiks, the Nigerian despots and their Swiss bank accounts,
the money will be going to our farmers and into our communities
and realign our whole economic system.
As my late great friend, Gatewood Gabrae, said,
the people who brought us marijuana prohibition are the petrochemical,
pharmaceutical, military, industrial, transnational, corporate, elite,
fascist sons of a bitches.
Yeah!
And our job is to restore hemp, and that's what this is about.
This event is about educating the public,
showing that we are not criminals.
We are good citizens.
We can follow whatever rules they want us to follow.
But we aren't going away.
They're not going to lock us all up.
They're not going to continue the lie that marijuana is harmful,
because it's not.
I look forward to the day when we can openly use cannabis in this park,
just like we do in Seattle.
This year, we followed these rules to show that we can meet
whatever requirements they throw at us.
Even if they suck!
Even if they suck, and they do suck.
You know, we have to pay these security guys $25 an hour,
each of the 40 of them, to be here 12 hours a day,
and they're not under our control, they're under the police's control.
The police do not want us to legalize marijuana.
Because they want to keep their gravy trade going.
They want to continue getting those corrupt dollars.
They want to continue seizing our marijuana and our marijuana gardens,
so they can sell it on the black market and put it into their pitch.
They want to seize our property. They want to seize our money.
They want to seize everything we've got, and they don't give a shit about us.
You know, well we're here to tell them that marijuana is a powerful tool
that enables us to examine reality and see the truth.
And they don't want that.
They want to tell us what reality is.
They want to tell us that marijuana is a bad thing.
But it's a good thing.
So, we will continue to educate them with truth and with love,
because we're good citizens.
We've got nothing to be ashamed of.
So, I want to urge each and every one of you to register and vote.
Vote yes on Measure 91.
It's a much better bill than they have in Washington.
It's a lot better than what they have in California.
It'll help us establish a new industry here in this state.
Put Oregon on the cutting edge of exciting new economic development.
So, we need you all to register to vote,
and get your family and friends to register to vote.
And educate them that this is a good bill.
You know, nothing's perfect, but we can't sacrifice the good to the perfect.
We've got to take this and vote in favor of it,
because it's going to help us open lots of new businesses
and restore hemp for fuel, fiber, and food.
So, I want to thank you all for going through the gauntlet
that the city of Portland, and mainly the Portland Police Bureau,
and their executives, not the officers on the beat,
they're our friends, really.
But it's those executives that depend on the prohibition dollars
that are making us go through these stringent requirements.
But we're not going away. We're going to be here,
and we are going to prevail.
We are going to win.
We are going to restore hemp for fuel, fiber, food, and medicine,
and adult social use.
I want to thank all you folks for coming again.
We'll be back here next year at the Portland Waterfront,
and hopefully we'll pass Measure 91,
we'll have adult smoking sections in the park,
and we will restore hemp!
Thank you all for coming again.
