Gatewood Galbraith, come on up here my brother man all the way from Kentucky to tell you
some truth this guy's been doing this longer than HempFest has been doing this.
Give him some warm love.
Thank you very much friend.
Hey thank you all.
Listen I hope you all remember that the theme of this HempFest is this one's for you Jack.
This one is for Jack Hare.
For a lot of you young folks out there if it wasn't for Jack Hare you wouldn't be here
at this HempFest because there wouldn't be a HempFest.
Jack Hare is responsible for it.
I'm going to take a couple minutes to pay tribute to my friend Jack Hare who passed
this past several months ago.
Here's my tribute to him.
Jack Hare is a social and philosophical tsunami.
The ripples from whose splash will forever grace the shores of human consciousness in
every freedom loving nation.
He is a grand champion of we the people and the natural cycle in our battle with the synthetic
subversion which threatens the very concept of the sovereignty of each human individual.
Jack's tireless efforts to eliminate the facts about cannabis have furnished freedom fighters
everywhere with the tools of knowledge with which to resist the fascism of the corporate
state as it seeks to subject everyone to its economic bottom line.
Jack recognized that cannabis is a gateway to existentialism which enlightens our existence
and is the basis of our freedom of choice.
He also recognized the miraculous healing powers of this herb and many sick and dying
people have found comfort in its use after reading his wonderful manifesto, The Emperor
Wears No Clothes.
I am one of them.
Jack Hare's grand spirit may have left his worn out body but he has entered into the
hearts and minds of millions of us who will forever be grateful to have been educated
by his commitment to the truth.
God bless you Jack Hare.
The message that Jack and I have is that your younger generation are open to perils to which
he and I never had to conceive.
But there is a great move afoot to take you out of the property of sovereign human beings
and put you into the property of the man.
The man.
The petrochemical, pharmaceutical, military, industrial, transnational, corporate, fascist
elite son of a bitches.
Who see the constitution and the bill of rights as impediments to the implementation of their
new world order and global economy.
And they are not warm and fuzzy about you or me or our children or grandchildren.
And they are afraid to give everybody in the rest of the world due process and constitutional
rights so in order to make it one world they are going to take ours away.
And the question of hemp, the question of cannabis is the most vivid illustration of
how this government has overstepped its bounds in policing the private behavior of citizens.
When they told us we couldn't plant a hemp seed in the ground they severed us from the
natural cycle.
That is what they seek to do.
I call it the synthetic subversion where they want to replace all the natural products on
earth.
They used to be grown out of God's earth and God's seed and replace them with synthetic
products and knocked our farmer out of the agrarian society and the agrarian market and
made the ghost towns of our small cities and villages across this country.
We need to rediscover a cash crop.
One that will allow our farmers to go back to the land.
One that will allow our farmers to compete with the petrochemical pipelines.
You plant US 7% agricultural land in hemp you will have to import another drop of oil.
We can replace the spills in the Gulf.
We can replace the environmental catastrophe that the petroleum pipelines have cast upon
Mother Earth and instead let our farmers grow hemp as a fuel crop.
In 1991 Willie Nelson and I poured hemp oil into my Mercedes diesel and drove it across
Kentucky in my bid for governor.
That's why he started his biofuel plant.
Listen folks you all have been handed a torch.
Jack Herrick, bless his soul, passed away.
I'm getting old up here.
You know we cannot take care of this bowl much longer.
You have to become educated.
You have to learn the truth.
You have to reach out there and grab the responsibility of maintaining your freedom.
Every generation must reinvent its own freedoms.
And those very sacrifices right up to the very last second I've been talking to you
made on your behalf cannot continue anymore.
What really counts is your own commitment to what sacrifices you're willing to make
in the future to maintain your freedom.
And it's right there in front of you.
I encourage you.
I encourage you to learn the law.
I encourage you to learn the political process.
I encourage you to reach out there and take responsibility for your own freedom.
Live your life like a warrior.
God bless you all.
Thanks for having me out here in Seattle.
