I will say that in Washington, it might be a surprise for you folks to know we do not have legalized
industrial hemp cultivation, only legalized marijuana.
So we've not yet passed industrial hemp legislation
in Washington and we do have an argument as to whether or not it should already be
legal based upon our state definition of marijuana which
has the qualifier of having more than 0.3 percent THC.
So that's an interesting thing we have going on in this state. On a federal level,
so jealous
of Oregon because your federal senators
Wyden and Merkley have primed and co-sponsored the Industrial Hemp Farming Act of 2015
which was refiled after 2013 but that's a very small and simple act that would remove
industrial hemp from
the Controlled Substances Act. All five of your federal representatives have
co-sponsored the sister bill
which is HR 525 in the US Congress so
Oregon should be very very proud of itself on so many levels.
I want to mention just that there are so many industries that industrial hemp
affects.
Obviously we know about the nutrition but even just from the seed we would get
into cosmeceutical,
nutraceutical and industrial oil and all of the derivatives, protein powders
and even the byproducts of the seed industry which are
hulls which can be used for any number of applications including
fillers for biocomposites but we're also talking about
apparel, textiles, paper. That industry alone
to be able to use hemp blends in our paper and our recycled fibers but
now we're even moving into of course building materials, nanotechnology,
super capacitors,
biomass used for biomedical purposes, things that we never saw coming
25 years ago when I first became interested in the industrial hemp movement.
So we also have a future here of planet cleaning and
once we can legalize the both species of cannabis
we'll be able then I think to move on to expand the way we deal with
agriculture and the healing of the land and the water and the biosphere and start
to marry
more permaculture techniques and move beyond this sustainable
concept and move into regenerative concepts and
industrial hemp and permaculture techniques can bring
the planet into this healing that will be required for us to be able to
deliver the next seven generations into a healthy world.
So congratulations Oregon you're doing something right on a state and federal
level.
