Hey everybody, welcome to the biggest event the whole month of May. In fact May
is marijuana month. Have you heard that medical marijuana month too? We have a
lot to celebrate and one of the biggest and most impressive reasons that we're
here today all comes together in this one gentleman down here in the center
picture, Dr. Phil Levesque. Now a lot of people have done a lot of things for
medical marijuana but very few have done what Dr. Levesque has done for the
state of Oregon and for the world, the whole globe believe me, because he
was not just a spokesman, he was a doctor that believed in us. He believed in
patients rights, he believed in ending pain, ending the ability or the
disability to reach what you need to get the medicine that you really
need and he saw from a young age that cannabis was that medicine. He was born
in 1923. His dad was one of the great loggers of Oregon and when his sons were
young he told Dr. Levesque and his brother don't go into logging, it's all
over, got to find a new industry. So that was in the 30s. So he did, he went to
college and he got his degree in biochemistry. He joined Patton's Army
thinking that he'd be able to help on some fantastic level because of his
chemistry degree but instead they said hey dude you're missing a couple of
fingers on your right hand, you can't be an officer. So instead they made, they
joined, he joined the infantry and became a scout and is one of the scouts that
actually lived from Patton's Army. He crossed the Rhine. His stories go on
forever and in fact this is his book, Dog Face Soldier, Dr. Levesque's own book is
being re-edited right now but there are a few copies that are available. So he
wrote his memoirs of the war but when he came back from the war he went to work.
He was a doctor, he got his degree. The people that he trained under knew all
about cannabis medicine because they're the old guys. They'd been using cannabis
medicine forever. They never even questioned whether or not they should
use it and so they, so he discovered that and still he would say right now should
he be here that there's a bottle of cannabis medicine somewhere in his barn
from back then because it worked so well he decided to keep it. So he was a born
in the wool, you know, died in the wool cannabis crusader from a young age. He
had a lifetime of incredible experiences. He taught in Africa. He was the first
man to, first doctor to teach surgeons brain surgery in Sierra Leone in their
brand new hospitals. So he made a lot of really great that you know dedicated
moves for all of us but when it came to cannabis he came back to Oregon. He set
up practice and he soon discovered where his real calling was and this is it. He
put his all into, he got together with Paul Stanford, Paul Loney and a lot of
other very important folks and worked at the THCF clinic, the very first clinic in
the state of Oregon and he helped veterans. He had over a thousand veterans
were his clients. Of course they were near and dear to his heart but all of us
were. He testified over 400 times as a toxicologist, pharmacologist. He had a PhD
and that he's one of the only toxicologists in the country with those
credentials and we were lucky enough in the state of Oregon to be able to have
him be with us, represent us, speak to our legislature, go to our hearings and he is
one of the greatest assets to the medical marijuana program worldwide
that's ever existed and so it seems almost fitting that last year on Global
Cannabis Day he left us and passed on to new horizons and better journeys no
doubt and so I am so honored to be able to be the one that says we dedicate this
stage right here Global Cannabis Day, Global Cannabis March here in Portland
Oregon. This stage is dedicated to Dr. Phil Levesque. This is now the Dr. Phil
Levesque Memorial Stage. Thank you guys so much for coming. You know being here
is really what it's about and every single one of you is absolutely
important and precious to us so thank you very much and you know from Doc, what
does Doc have to say? Don't smoke in the rain. That's right.
