So the political mantra this season is jobs, jobs, jobs. You're hearing it from at least Democratic candidates everywhere in the country.
So I went down to the picnic at the Labor Temple in Madison last Monday, and you know, that's always full of political candidates chasing the Union vote.
And I caught members of the legislature, where we'd had a hemp bill cleared the Agriculture Committee with a comfortable margin, but never got a floor vote.
He says, you guys are talking jobs, jobs, jobs. Let me show you some jobs.
And I pulled out these cards, come and grab one, with a photo of the employees of the Fairwater Hemp Company of Fairwater, Wisconsin in 1917.
And the Fairwater Hemp Company has another unique place in history. It was the first place that hemp was ever used as an energy crop.
Across the Grand River was the Fairwater Waterwheel, the largest of its kind, generating electric power for the nearby villages.
And as demand grew, as they got more distribution lines laid, there came a point where in the fall, during the dry season, there wasn't enough hydro power to supply the whole customer base they built.
Well, the owner of the Waterwheel was the son-in-law of the guy who owned a hemp mill across the river, and he noticed his father-in-law had this kiln that was burning all of the waste products of their rope manufacturer, the herds.
And he said, let's get a steam engine.
So, for the dry fall months, for at least two years, the villages of Fairwater and Marcuson and surrounding countryside were indeed powered by hemp for electricity.
It's my belief that at this point, until we get really good technology for making liquid fuels from low-density solid biomass like hemp stalks, that we really will actually be seeing hemp playing a role in electric generation before it's really viable as a liquid fuel.
It's not that you can't grow enough biomass, it's that the conversion to high-density liquid that you can haul around in a car is still very energy-intensive.
And when Donnie and I were first talking about this stuff in 1992, the lab guys were saying, oh, cellulose to ethanol is right around the corner.
Well, it's turned out to be a very soft corner.
Yes, they are closer, but I'm not going to say it's something happening as fast as we can get to laws on hemp change.
