Thank you for taking time for him. Tonight on our show we have a very
unusual and a unique guest. Unusual in the sense that he has spent a lifetime
defending the sanctuary of the individual and trying to bring
about the importance that government stays out of the individual's life and
the individuals allowed to make their own choices. Brent is a futurist. He's
able to foresee farther down the road than many of his contemporaries and
is best to bring forth his knowledge and his insights. Please welcome on our show
Dr. Timothy Leary. Well Casper it's a pleasure to be here. I approve very
highly of your program. I understand it's growing nationwide. Yes sir. How many
cities are you in now? At present we're in 80 cities and in 44 states. Oh boy that's
good. And getting the word out like this is very exciting. Now you've always been
known as the highest rider of every generational wave. What? The highest
rider of every generational wave. You've been the forefront. You've been there from
the World War II to the early 60s and 70s. Able to you know speak the voice and
be heard and foresee it. Realizing this how do you think the wave of the hemp
movement is going to settle into the population and break upon the the shores
of our ecology problems? Break up the shores of our ecology problems? Yes sir. I
can see that. Oceans of green hemp doing that. The present laws against hemp I
think are the most irrational and I would say almost insane pieces of
puritanic legislation. Maybe you have to go back to the Salem witchcraft trials
to get something where so much hysteria has picked out something so benign and
so harmless and so profitable and so productive and had this all-out moral
fierce religious campaign against hemp. Why do you think that there is this
religious fundamentalist and police government prejudice against hemp? How do
you explain it? My personal views that I feel that it stems from a lot of the
well oil companies and the people who can make money off of being illegal
keeping it illegal and together put together a propaganda campaign to
mislead the public and I feel that it will set into the people's mind
eventually when the truth is more exposed. Now I understand that we're
not going to talk about the religious or the emotional psychological aspects of
hemp. The recreational purposes. Yeah we won't talk about that at all. We're going to talk about
the practical and the profitable and productive. Yes sir. And the ecological
aspects of it. Absolutely. I don't know a lot about that. I've read books by Jack
Herrera. I've listened. Gosh there's so many programs and so many articles these
days. Everywhere you turn around you hear intelligent discussions about hemp as a
substitute for oil, hemp as a substitute for wood pulp, hemp as a source of energy.
It's exciting. The thing that I know most about however is the puritanical
crusade against hemp because you know I was in prison for four and a half years.
For under an ounce right? For the possession of two roaches which had been
planted in my car by a generous overly generous policeman and at one point I
found myself in prison facing like 50 years imprisonment. I was 50 years at the
time. 50 years old. I mean this is a strange series of events that for such a
harmless and even beneficial situation to be charged with so much time. Now you
escaped from there too didn't you? Well I did what any sensible 50 year old
would do if you're facing 50 years in prison for two roaches of marijuana that
planted in your car. The only common sense thing to do is to escape and I did
that and made a few little B-movie adventures there. There are many
things in our society that have to be controlled and governed. For example oil.
Look at the way oil is polluting and our atmosphere and acid rain and so forth.
Guns should be controlled. I think drugs like steroids should be
controlled. I think there should be probably more control over alcohol and
nicotine and of all the of all of the botanical vegetable species that the
government is attacking marijuana is the one they're going after. That's
interesting you know I sometimes say that hemp is a democratic plant because
it was during the Democratic regime of Jimmy Carter that hemp was legalized in
14 states and Carter himself and his cabinet wanted to decriminalize
marijuana and in 1980 you had the Republicans coming in with a hard line
typical crush them down them. Just say no. Yeah and suddenly the new drugs which
are everywhere are drugs that I never heard of back in the 60s and late 70s
of things like crack and cocaine and steroids. They didn't exist so I called
them the Republican drugs. Now they're Republican drugs why? Because Republicans
are hardliners like to feel tough and aggressive and I'm number one and we're
gonna go over there we're gonna you know kick butt and if you're gonna go out
there and loot a lot of savings and loans companies and you're gonna go out
there you know yeah you gotta have a lot of energy and you got a lot of self
confidence. You gotta take two it up with cocaine or a little steroids.
Arnold Schwarzenegger of course is the typical example of the of the steroid we
call him Conan the Republican you know whereas the one thing about the the use
of hemp as a drug I've had to warn Republicans about this if you're a
Republican and you're a hardliner and you want to go out there and kick and
stretch and get yourself to the top and if you're in the army or the police or
anything you want to have to be tough and mean and stay away from hemp.
Because hemp will turn you into a wimp. I mean really look at Carter he was believing
in peace and love and we'd... All the wrong things right? All the terrible things.
You understand why? Right now the government is spending much more money
crushing the production of hemp. Another thing that puzzles me about the
insanity or the even the diabolical nature of the right-wing religious
Republican situation. Why did they go after the American farmers? They spend
more money fighting hemp in this country. You know in California which is my home
state hemp was the number one agricultural cash product. In Iowa, in
Tennessee, in like... Back in Indiana where I'm from. Yeah how many states? At least
that we're aware of 28 or more. Yeah honest farmers out there trying to make
a living growing hemp and the government is out there arresting these good-hearted
free enterprise farming agricultural Americans. Meanwhile down in Columbia and
Peru these gangsters, these cocaine cartel people are making billions of
dollars and we're spending less money on them. It's that how come I think you're
probably right that they don't want people to be using hemp to because it
would interfere with the oil monopoly. It would interfere with the wood pulp
monopoly and also I think there's something really religiously diabolic and
evil about the right-wing Christians in this country who go after hemp because
they hate people to have pro-choice and to make your own decisions about your
life. They seem to be some of the people to overlook the medical aspects.
Absolutely yeah. Now from your perspective and being a
psychiatrist as you are you've had the opportunity to become acquainted with
many different aspects of healing and some of the more positive
benefits of the uses of hemp. Could you share that please? Well there have been
enormous number of studies that show that that hemp and cannabis is where
it's extremely necessary for certain forms of glaucoma. You simply have to
have it. In many states these fanatic anti-pleasure people are so afraid
that the patient who's going blind might enjoy the experience that you got to go
blind if you die but don't have a good time because the Republicans are in power.
That's apparently the logic here. Aren't they using it too for anorexia and for
cancer, AIDS? I mean there's one terrible thing about hemp and I don't want to get
into the use of marijuana but I got to be honest with you and there are some
terrible side effects of smoking or using marijuana. One is it's called
refrigerator blackout. I mean you get the munchies. Oh okay. You know you suddenly
smoke a joint and suddenly you're there you are the next thing you know you've
eaten nine pounds of fig noon. Now that's that's dangerous. You got to be careful there.
On the other hand if you're dying of cancer or malnourished because of
stomach problems and you don't have any appetite hemp of course is the logical
and obvious and natural medicine to give you an appetite to see you through that
period but again a good true Puritan would rather have you die. Now we all
have a good meal while you're giggling. We also know that it's good for stress
to calm you down and from a viewpoint of a psychiatrist is there any benefits
for someone who might be having emotional or mental problems as opposed
to giving them like Valiums or some of these other stronger drugs that seem to
be causing problems like Prozac and so on. Yeah well number one I don't want to
come out like a smart smart-ass here and every psychological situation is
individual and needs its own you know its own pharmacology so in
generalize but certainly the things about hemp is it's not addictive it's
extremely harmful to have any of the side effects of many of the euphorics
and the antidepressants that are approved and that doctors prescriptions
will give you so yeah there's a you see the thing about religious fanaticism is
that the crazier the nuttier the wilder and almost the more nonsensical the
belief the more you hang on to it so that I've debated for many years a man
who was ahead of the DEA for about five years
his name is Peter Benziger. Yeah she has. And I can't believe him he's going after
hemp and he's trying to say that oh hemp when they gave a lot of some mice
some hemp and it made male mice teenage male mice and it made their breasts grow
a little so he said why do you college boys even go on it why is he going at
the real problems of crack babies in the inner city and alcohol which is our
number one drug here and nicotine half a million people die here from that
here's this guy's blathering on about the dangers of I don't know he never did
mention whether whether marijuana would make girls breasts bigger but I don't
know why you know you've also had a few debates with G Gordon Liddy yeah and he
seems to think that marijuana ie hemp is one of the plants that's gonna lead to a
complete social breakdown and our structure of government and you see well
I know Gordon Liddy I've been debating him I've known him for years over 25
I know exactly how his mind works and like a good army man like a good military
man like a good policeman like a good follower of his leader Richard Nixon
okay Gordon Liddy has never had one unauthorized thought in his life so he
reads the line so you know what LSD makes you jump out of windows marijuana
makes you what is that not for you it's the gateway drug yeah it's a gateway drug
yeah it's the gateway drug yeah I see I must say here and I don't want to offend
anyone and if you're a if you're a deeply devout Christian I want you to
turn your TV off now but I feel that there's a great problem in this country
in a violation of our civil liberties and personal rights on the basis of the
federal government interfering with women's bodies about my abortion and the
these insane war on drugs the war on drugs is a war on Americans it's not a
war on Russians or evil communists and all that you may hear it's a war against
a 40 or 50 million of us marijuana smokers in this country which in a way
seems like a weird thing that the majority in Congress should suddenly
declare war on 30 million otherwise taxpaying reasonably productive American
citizens the I think that the basis is religion and basis is that you're not
allowed to choose what you want to do it's like any fanatic religious they'll
tell you you can't use contraceptives because you can't enjoy sex
conceive a baby you have no choice about whether you want to bring this baby when
you can handle this baby and the same thing is true about about the choice of
your own self medication and I personally believe that the war on drugs
is the worst attack on American freedom that we've experienced in 200 years you
know this is the 200th anniversary of the Bill of Rights it was in 1791 that
they passed those ten wonderful bills and basically what most people don't
realize is that the Bill of Rights in the Constitution is designed to protect
the individual against the government so the government can't come into your
house without a search warrant the government can't put soldiers in your
house the government can't force you to to testify against yourself the
government can't tell you what to read or write the government can't tell you
how to worship your own God the government can't tell you how to read
mind your own business so it's both ironic and I think it's also very
hopeful that in the year 1991 and the 200th anniversary of the Bill of Rights
this hemp movement is growing and I want to tell you it is growing I give a lot
of talks to students in colleges and the awareness of the insanity of the
marijuana laws is becoming I think more and more obvious that tells us that
perhaps we are finally making an impact across the United States and perhaps
around the world we are really enjoying this interview and we'll be right back
after this thank you welcome back to time for him today on our show we had a
distinguished dr. Timothy Leary Timothy I think you've been aware of some of the
changes in the laws here within the American structure of Congress and all
the way down to dog catcher opinions from Nancy Reagan swaying our opinions
is this say no I have a model in a bumper sticker and a t-shirt says just
say K&O W no think for yourself and don't believe what Nancy Reagan says
believe what I say think for yourself and question authority and well because
of this conservatism though some of the laws that were established during the
Carter administration such as decriminalization of marijuana etc are
beginning to go back to another era back when minds were narrow and Alaska
they've changed the laws back to stiffen the laws call we are going to a period
now it's that what happened in the 60s and 70s we had this country a classic
Renaissance now read the history books a Renaissance is a period when there's a
sudden surge in self-expression in the rights of the individual a loosening of
the control of authority a questioning of a religious dogma and then a lurch
forward it this is always followed by a hard-lined retreat so that it's at the
same time that there has in the last 10 years in America under Reagan and Bush
and this very repressive hard line look what's happened to the rest of the world
you know in Russia just three weeks ago when they had that coup and then a bunch
of young people in Moscow protected Yeltsin and stopped the tanks you know
it was that was stopping the tanks it was young Russians students who were
throwing flowers at the tanks that sounds familiar does that sound familiar
they learned that absolutely from the American in the 60s and 70s and we were
questioning the authority of Johnson and Nixon and stopping the Vietnam War
another thing it was amusing about the Russian Revolution and it's very
connected with this the three men who young men who got shot by the tanks and
were immediately promoted to the highest office or honor of the Soviet Union the
highest order of the land they were three hippies one was a grateful deadhead
one like heavy metal rock and they let their hair grow and they all had learned
to smoke hashish in Afghanistan and indeed they were trying to stop the
tanks because it was their brothers and their friends and their colleagues who
were in the tanks because the there turned out that the Soviet soldiers that
had been sent to Afghanistan hated the idea of going down there and and killing
Afghani people for no apparent reason so that I'm very proud of the fact that
although in America we've had this it's very predictable but very violent and
mean and nasty puritanism and you can't smoke cigarettes and there's you they're
censoring rock and roll records and they're censoring books now one by one
they're going down the list of personal freedoms at the same time the basic
American freedoms which we set going in the 60s are appearing in the Soviet
Union I go as you guys are reversing it seems like yeah yeah it seems like the
hemp issue could be one of the last strong divides that we face as a body of
people in America what everybody seems to have an opinion if I seem so upset
make it legal the hemp issue is the place where you can draw the line and
anyone who's watching this program in your city there's obviously a channel
which is carrying this message I get in touch with the people that are producing
this show in your locality and then start embarrassing your local
politicians by asking them for example of your congressmen and assembly men and
women how many of you smoke marijuana when you were young huh we know that
about 80% of the members of Congress under the age of 50 were smoking
marijuana how come they could do it and we can't do it there's even been
reported rumors that people all the way up to the White House may have been
enough white oh my god I know that Ronald Reagan smoked marijuana because
that came out in the book by Kitty Kelly when Ronald Reagan was governor of
California I used to smoke marijuana and if you know when you think about it when
you think about it that explains everything about poor Ronnie Reagan it
shows you why Republicans should not smoke marijuana well the amnesia
forgetfulness the short-term memory love the cheerful hey what's wrong baby
everything's fine even though the country's going back yeah okay that's
after lunch you know I mean Ronnie come on leave marijuana alone no but by the
way both Ronnie's children Ron jr. and Betty Davis of course this is silly the
point I'm making here about the place I think it's take a stand abortion rights
is one place but marijuana I can do it the way to do it is from humor write
letters to the editor challenge politicians as to whether they really
think that alcohol is more dangerous than marijuana and if so why and then on
a very common-sense logical friendly humorous you've always been one for the
wit and to tickle people with a laugh and make them think I've noticed you do
what you can to stimulate the mind in a fun way that's the end of the game I
think that's oftentimes why you've been so misconstrued by your contemporaries
they they can't take a joke well good I'm glad I'm misunderstood the the
number one way to bring down any repressive authoritarian regime is
reverence and I pride myself I think I have a very high IQ that is irreverence
quotient and I have been leading the center in this country during the the
Johnson administration the Nixon administration I'm proud to have been
proud that mr. Richard Nixon called me the most dangerous man in America I mean
after all what an honor and yeah really and I want to urge those of you who just
think for yourself and the hemp issue is a wonderful issue to bring people
together because it brings together ecology it brings together a substitute
for petroleum which of course is the real Republican addictive drug it's such
an ecologically helpful situation above all it prevents us from cutting down the
Amazon rainforest for a wood pulp because or for or cutting down for a
fiber because we all know that hemp is by far the best material so that
there's something that's very wonderful about a plant and and that human beings
kind of rally behind a plant those five wonderful leaves that kind of represent
wonderful and the great thing about it is the right-wing Republicans and the
right-wing religious fanatics hate it and you know why they hate it because it
makes people feel free it makes people free feel funny and independent and now
I would if they hate it it's gonna be something good about it that's my logic
I would shoot myself if I didn't ask this one last question and oh my god
don't do that because it's so many people say you had Timothy Leary there
why didn't you ask him in we have we tried to shy away from the
recreational uses so we don't want to make it along we respond but do you feel
that when consumed as a recreational plant that it can bring you more in tune
with your own being with your own self maybe put things in a better perspective
or is it like liquor when you drink it you're just so out of touch that you
don't know what's going on well I spent 40 years scientifically studying the
various botanical vegetable gifts that the plant queendom has given the
mammalian animal kingdom and no question in my mind that the mushrooms
and marijuana are the greatest gifts given to us by the vegetable the plant
the kingdom you can misuse marijuana it does make you get there like three
dangerous side effects of marijuana one is you kind of see too much and that
makes you kind of a little a little spacey because you know you you're you
just do see so much and the second is short-term memory loss like you forget
what you were talking about and the third dangerous side effect I forget no
don't ever smoke marijuana use marijuana if you have if you're going to go to
school if you're going to do anything that requires attention concentration
just absolutely stupid do not use marijuana marijuana should be used for
moments of real celebration and the glorification and one thing about
marijuana is it's not a loner it's something that you do with somebody else
okay the idea that was someone go off and smoke marijuana by themselves
ridiculous yeah you know like doing this talk show that we've had the chance to
do today yeah I want to thank you very much for being a guest on our show I've
been told by the side and people here on the sides that we need to wrap it up
and I tell you you've really had you've given us a lot of food for our minds
all behind your cause and it's an honor pleasure to be with you and thanks to
the crew who did a great job I can't be back on again sometime okay thank you
and the next time you see me remember that you'll know it's time for him so
please join in look around tell your friends get copies of the show send it
off to governor send it off to senator send it off to people whose minds are
closed tell your friends about it if you are a victim of this war on drugs
and feel that bringing your story to us might enlighten it to the nation where
we can help make a change please let us know if there's people in your community
who need to be focused on please let us know and if you have a challenge
regarding any of our statements remember Jack Harer once said ten thousand
dollars anybody who comes on to this show and disproves our findings Jack
Harer stands behind that statement it's an honor to have him on our show and
again I'll look for you the next time thank you
