I really want to talk about something that I think not many people here are aware of
is that there is another Industrial Hemp Farming Act in Congress.
And it was introduced in May by Representative Ron Paul.
And it already has more co-sponsors than we've ever had on an Industrial Hemp Farming Act
bill.
This is the, I believe, the third bill that has been introduced by Representative Ron
Paul.
And that's because of the hard work of a group called Vote Hemp.
Alright, so Vote Hemp is pretty much a single issue focusing just on the industrial hemp
side of things.
Now Eric Steenstra, who's the president of Vote Hemp, this year finally got on board
with some of us who've been urging for longer than, more than a year, that it's time to
hitch our star to moving medical and recreational legislation.
And so we have worked with the proposition folks in California, in Colorado, here in
this state.
And including industrial hemp now as a, as a, as comes under the, will come under the
same initiatives and legislation that's moving around the country.
This is a new strategy.
Honestly, for the last ten years, surprisingly, we've worked totally separate.
People working on medical, people working on industrial have worked separately.
And I think the big change in the last twelve months, since we were sitting on this stage
a year ago, is that there's a new openness towards including industrial hemp with, when
really it's a more popular issue, and that is medical cannabis, recreational cannabis,
marijuana.
You know, on the East Coast, if you say cannabis, people's eyes glaze over.
They actually don't know what you're talking about.
There's a, there's a quite a bit of ignorance still as to what even is, you know, what is
cannabis.
You say marijuana and you, 95% of the people know what you're talking about.
So I'm just going to say that, you know, there is a, on the East Coast, a deficit of knowledge
on this issue.
And what our biggest challenge is, is to continue to educate politicians that go to Washington
to write laws that they, this is a safe issue, the industrial hemp issue.
And it's probably now the whole issue is safe.
It's not just industrial hemp.
It's, it's medical.
It's even the idea of just tax and regulate.
So I'll leave it there.
And, but we, there is this bill in Congress and the Industrial Hemp Farming Act.
And I really hope if you're, if you haven't already called your congressman in the last
month, you haven't been calling enough.
So give him a call or her a call and ask them to support that bill.
Thank you so much.
