Hemp, hemp hooray!
Hemp, hemp hooray!
Hemp, hemp hooray!
Hemp, hemp hooray!
I hope you're having a hempy day.
Wow!
I'm so excited to be here today.
I've been to each of these over the last 17 years.
It's the first time we've had two mayoral candidates here.
That's pretty exciting, isn't it?
And other than our friend Lou Frederick,
who's going to be in the Senate next year,
it's the first time we've had somebody from the legislature this year.
And, you know, I'm always reminded at times like this
about how lucky we are to be here,
having freed the weed!
And especially having, for me, lived long enough to see it happen.
And at times like this, I remember the folks who didn't,
and I hope you do too.
You know, I've been working some with...
Is Michael here? Ico?
Michael Backler right here.
Could you give it up for him, please?
This whole thing would not happen but for his energy.
And we were back and forth a little bit yesterday
because I was in touch with Congressman Blumenauer's office.
He's not able to be here today,
but he's very supportive of what we're doing.
And Ico had back and forth with the city this week
about where we were going to be able to march
and why are we still marching.
And I thought I'd spend just a couple of minutes
talking with you about why we're still marching.
Anybody remember Danbo?
Daniel Ernst?
Daniel Ernst is serving 15 years in federal prison.
I got a letter from him this week.
And that's why we march.
We march because there are people in federal prison.
Is cannabis legal everywhere?
No.
We march because marijuana is still on the controlled substances list
when it needs to be descheduled.
We march because people call marijuana an entry drug
when it's actually an exit drug, an exit from addiction.
We march because the OHA treats marijuana like it was poison
and we know it's a wellness drug.
We know that in our lifetime we'll be able to go down to Walgreens
and get us some Walfeco or some Wal-R-S-O.
It's going to happen.
That's what's coming next.
Thanks so much for coming out today.
It's important that we make a show of consumers.
I appreciate what Ted had to say about the industry,
and I appreciate what Tobias had to say about the industry,
but I'm a consumer,
and I work towards reforming cannabis laws for consumers.
And if you're talking particularly about income inequality and racism,
Ted, the fees for the city of Portland licensing are a barrier
to people of color getting involved in the system, to people.
I mean, I didn't do this for 20 years so that a white man could get rich
and black kids would be in prison.
We're trying to end that.
One person who's here who's working to end that is Madeline Martinez
who's speaking next Sunday evening in Denver at a Cannabis Diversity Summit
that our sister Charlo Green, fuck it, I quit, from Anchorage is putting on.
If you could find your way to Denver next Sunday, that would be great.
So remember that our work is not done.
You know, Harrison Conley, our friend who lobbied on Madeline's behalf,
says we freed the weed except you can't use it indoor or outdoor.
What we need and what we hope the next mayor does, Ted,
is allow us to consume here at this event
and to allow us to consume at Hemstock
by not enforcing the violation during those two days
out of the 365 days in the year.
Thank you very much.
