You know, I just got the word they got these new initiatives coming out to legalize marijuana
in the state of Oregon.
I think that's a good thing.
I think that all of you should do that.
And the reason I think that is because if you don't, you know, they're going to legalize
it anyway.
Do you want the legislature to legalize it for you and make all the rules?
Or do you want to make the rules yourselves by legalizing it yourselves?
See, that's kind of the difference.
So you know, I mean, you can keep sitting back and waiting.
But really, there's something that's got to get done.
And you know, we don't want to be, you know, late on the history of this thing.
Oregon's right in the middle.
You know, California and Oregon are the next states to legalize, I do believe.
And it's time for us to do that.
So if you look back right across from the main stage here, there's the THC clinic back
there.
There's a, what?
Where is it?
It's right there.
Okay, all right.
Right over here is the paperwork on this new initiative stuff.
You know, and if you want to register to vote, as I think you ought to, I'm not asking you
to vote for president or none of that.
But you know, you can't control your neighborhood.
And the way you do it is that you control your neighborhood through your vote locally.
So the initiative process is that's how we're doing it.
That's how it happened in Washington.
That's how it happens in Colorado.
That's how it's going to happen right here.
But really, you know, we got to get involved.
You know, and there's a reason for it.
There's too many people in prison.
There's too many people in jail.
You know, because that's what's morally wrong about the whole thing.
You know, I'd like to yeah, maybe I'd like to sit back and make all kinds of money selling
herb or something.
But that isn't the way it works.
You know, the way it works is that we got a bunch of people in prison for thinking that
way.
And it's time for the thing to change.
We need to get the bars opened up, let everybody out of there.
Because you know, we do need jail.
We need it for criminals.
You know, rapists, murderers, thieves, you know, they're out there.
That's enough to keep the cops busy right there.
See, they don't need to be chasing us.
They don't need to be chasing you.
So all you youth, especially men, hear my message.
You know, step up, register to vote and change our local rules a little bit by legalizing
marijuana in Oregon.
You see, there's more than one thing.
There's also a constitutional amendment.
You see, there's a couple of different things going on right now.
You've got to look at that.
You can vote on that.
You know, a constitutional amendment that means that nobody's going to go to jail for
this anymore.
I think it's an important thing.
