Okay, I'm Dan to the Canada's liberation society. We've been in existence about four years
We're working on legalization
We don't talk about it. I mean sure we talk about it, but I mean that we're doing more. We're actually working on it
We're actually there's two petitions in the state of Oregon for the re-legalization of the state. I mean for the
re-legalization of cannabis
But we need help big-time. There's some things cooking
You need to talk to some people in the booth and find out what's going on
But the main thing is we need help. I went to the county fair this year. We worked last three years
We've been at the county fair. We've been fighting off the officials are trying to run us off
We've been assaulted but here's a pin. This is a pin that I picked up somebody gave to me at the county fair
This is being handed out. It's got a marijuana leaf with a symbol on it, you know, with a slice across it
It says say no to drugs
Report marijuana. There's one 800 number here and it says Oregon State Sheriff's Association
so I
Had a great idea
I only have one but I need to find out where to get these because I thought these would really make great pins for signing
our petition
And then I thought you know, we could get enough of them
We could even maybe like auction them off or you know, sell them for a fundraiser to help fight them
You know use the weapon against them
Then I got to think if you remember they say there's nothing more minor than the sword
I see that didn't I the pin is minor to the sword? Okay?
If that's true, then we have them
We have two of the best weapons and when you're in a war is the better weapon you have the better advantage you have
We have two of the strongest ones. First of all, we have the pin
And I said we could use their pin against him. And the other thing is we have truth now
That's a radical concept with the truth and I've always thought that the truth is that need to be closed
They can stand naked. So the thing is, well, let's get behind the legalization
I talked to my fellow activists and they tell me oh, well, we just don't have time. We got to implement the medical
Okay, let's implement the medical that's fantastic and that's spent as great we've made great strides
But we've got five states that passed medical. Let's go for
Let's go for legalization. You get no amnesty without
Legalization that's the bottom line. It seemed to me. It's a no-brainer
Legalization's what we should be working on and I don't mean talking about it. Like I'm doing I mean
Working on it like I and a lot of hard-working people are there's no money in legalization
So you won't find much money in it, but we're scratching we're back there. This is registered to vote in front of our booth
We got a sparkly windsock and we need help
We need help not only money wise you need help and personnel wise we need help in equipment
Anything you can donate you think you can help we need computers
We need people that have might have computer equipment you can loan out. Let's get more people online
Communication is the key if we can get online more people online
I'm gonna get some more people some more time here. Thanks for coming. Feel free to talk to us anytime you want
vote for freedom
register and vote
Thank you
