Congratulations Rose City, we did it, it's legal.
But we got a long way to go.
When Aiko called and asked if I would speak today, I was like, sure, I would love to speak.
Check this out, about 15 years ago, y'all, I was locked up at the Justice Center
looking outside at Portland from a jail cell
for being arrested for two months over less than half a gram of marijuana.
So to be able to be standing right here at Pioneer Square 15 years after that incident
and being able to voice my opinion on the benefits of marijuana.
I'm trying to weed my mother who's a diabetic, she had a stroke a few years ago
and the marijuana has been helping her way better than the medication has.
And she's been a big skeptic about it for years, like a lot of our elder are.
And these pharmaceutical companies is killing their pockets.
They're killing their pockets and then they won't legalize cannabis for the people that really need it.
You know what I mean? It's cool to have it for recreational purposes.
But there's people and kids that are benefiting from the CBDs, you know what I mean?
They don't do it to get recreationally high, so to speak.
And it's important to know that, it's important, like Madeline always encourages us at every rally
to make sure we get out and vote.
It's important, we have a say so in the direction of this.
Speaking of Madeline Martinez, her movement is what led to the music that we're about to provide for you.
So give this lady, this queen of potland a big round of applause for her leadership.
Her leadership, her fight for all of us.
How y'all doing potland?
What's up?
Potland, come together, y'all, everybody come to the front of the stage.
Y'all can come a little bit closer.
I got some CDs to give out too.
Couple of your hometown boys.
Mac and Dub in the smoking section.
Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Help end marijuana prohibition.
That's what the signs say.
Smoke out Ico in the building.
Brian Ray, Madeline Martinez, Teresa Rayford, Justin Jones.
Uh-huh, sound good, sound good.
I think we've been doing this about six, seven years right now.
What's up, baby?
I'm very happy to be at the 19th annual Global Cannabis March.
Shout out to Stonyville Gardens.
Yeah, yeah.
Shout out to Lonely Law Group, Greenleaf Labs.
Oregon Normal, the world famous cannabis cafe.
Oregon Hemp Works.
Of course, the pioneer, Mr. Paul Stever.
More kick drum, please.
Can we get more kick drum in the monitor, please, Mr. Sound Man.
Y'all give it up for the sound company, my guy Ico and everybody holding it down.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah!
This song right here is dedicated to the world famous cannabis cafe.
It was the first of its kind to ever do what they did.
You know what I mean?
Cannabis.
Cannabis.
Oh, my God, you're marvelous.
We love you.
Russell Rafer, we see you out there.
Yeah, don't shoot PDX in the building.
Cannabis fighters worldwide, if you ever went to the Cannabis Cafe, if you know our music, sing along with us, y'all.
Here we go!
Meet me at the cafe.
When you get to diggin' paper right, I'ma be there all day.
What we doing, Doug?
Smokin' on something nice.
I'm tired of stressin', my body's achin'.
I wish this pain would go away.
My addiction is my prescription.
And I need it every day.
Mary Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane.
Mary Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane.
Mary Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane.
Mary Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane.
Need it every day!
So doctor, doctor, here's the news.
I got a bad case of puttin' weed in my food.
And I smoke every night before the six o'clock news
And it leaves two blood for I put on my shoes
I put blood butter on my purple haze pancakes
Got a little ginger for my painter
But I think I'm gonna go ahead and sit up to that
So if you find yourself around my way
You can't man me out the cafe
Where's the desk?
When you get the dig, I'm taking a ride
I'mma be there all day
What we doing, potlick?
Smoking on something nice
I'm tired of stressing, my body's aching
I wish this pain would go away
My addiction is my prescription
And I need it every day
Mary Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane
Sing with us
Mary Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane
I can't hear you
Mary Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane
Mary Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane
I need it every day
Now here I go
Off the dole, another chronic episode
Trying to squeeze this 20th, I was in the 24th
To the liquor store, no, I'm sliding by the cafe
You keep that green inside the drawers every single day, man
Roaring with a lot of smoke and big with our wine
They say they handed me the gravity bomb
The dead folks, the smoke, I know the smoke don't go down
I did it anyway, we getting blown away
At the cafe
Come on y'all
When you get the dig, I'm taking a ride
I'mma be there all day
What up, R-E-O?
Smoking on something nice
I'm tired of stressing, my body's aching
I wish this pain would go away
My addiction is my prescription
And I need it every day
Mary Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane
What you got there, Doug?
Mary Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane
Mary Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane
Sing it with us, y'all
Mary Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane
Need it every day
When I say fiery, y'all say uh
Fiery, uh
Fiery, uh
When I say
Y'all say passive, passive, passive
Passive, passive
When I say smoking, y'all say section
Smoking, section, smoking, section
When I say mac and dub, y'all say mac and dub
Mac and dub, mac and dub, mac and dub
At the cafe
When you get the dig, I'm taking a ride
I'mma be there all day
What you doing, y'all?
Smoking on something nice
I'm tired of stressing, my body's aching
I wish this pain would go away
My addiction
Is my prescription
And I need it every day
Mary Jane
Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane
Mary Jane
Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane
Mary Jane
Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane, Jane
Mary Jane
Take it out
Jane, Jane, Jane
I need it every day
Smoke big
Live good
Mac and dub and a smoking section men
section man. Hey y'all we got a special guest with us on stage. I don't know if
you know this gentleman. We call him Uncle Ricky. He's Uncle Snoop Dogg's uncle.
Join us on the bass tonight y'all. Bringing that funky bass with us. Shout
out to Uncle Ricky with the smoking section.
