Well, about four years ago, in 2010, Ben had noticed some lumps he had on his posterior.
Being a former naturopathic physician's assistant, he could kind of almost predict that it might
be cancer, but he wasn't quite sure.
He got blown off by his family doctor.
He wasn't going to give us a referral, so he told him it was a calcium deposit, don't
worry about it.
But he was already growing some marijuana for the purpose of dealing with his heart
condition, kind of keeping his blood pressure at a rate where it would give him a little
bit of energy and kind of turn off the gravity amplifier.
He'd been watching YouTube, he saw the YouTube show on, I guess, the Rick Simpson story.
And what he learned about that.
Run from the cure.
Run from the cure.
And so he decided to apply that, just thinking, you know, this lump might be cancer.
And he applied it, and he thought, well, if it's not, let's just see what it does.
Well, he had a golf ball-sized, well, he found out later it was a tumor.
And after applying it topically for within about two months, it shrank down to the size
of a, well, down to a little pink spot.
I mean, it went below the surface of the skin and disappeared.
So eventually, someone must have called the police thinking they smelled marijuana in
our apartment.
And so we were raided.
And he had shown the police officer what he had been using the marijuana for, that
he was making cannabis oil.
And he even showed him, you know, how he applied it before he confiscated it, before the officer,
furlong, detective furlong, confiscated it.
So we were arrested.
We went through a year of basically firing attorneys, trying to get someone who would
represent us and not force us to plea out.
And then eventually, we just gave up on that and went ahead and took a guilty plea of manufacturing.
He wanted to present a medical defense.
No one was going to hear it, and they just weren't going to go with it.
So we had been on probation for a couple of years.
During the first couple of months in 2011, he had gone to, finally got a referral to
an oncologist who came back with a result after giving him a biopsy that it was, in
fact, angiosarcoma cancer.
It is a cancer of the inner lining of the blood vessels, which appears as tumors on
the skin, above the surface of the skin.
And so while on probation, Ben decided to just try to get a hold of whatever plant material
he could.
Sometimes ditch weed.
Friends would harvest some out of the field.
You know, in Iowa, it just grows everywhere.
And he would make cannabis oil out of that.
Sometimes he had to go to the street to buy cannabis oil.
But eventually, you know, he was able to acquire just enough for, you know, a couple of grams
here or there.
And he would ingest them.
And he was able to keep the tumors from growing.
Some of them would even shrink.
You know, some of the smaller ones especially.
Now this went on for, well, about two and a half years.
And then in June 2013, well, I'm getting ahead of myself.
He started growing cannabis in a trailer in the backyard.
His best friend helped him.
And he had all higher CBD strains.
I think he had canna-tonic, which I think came from some Z7 seeds that he'd ordered
from Mr. Nice, I think.
And so he had plants that were, you know, eventually going to possibly, you know, if
he could acquire enough, he could make enough oil to maybe wipe out this cancer.
Because at this point, it was at stage one.
They were really small tumors.
Well, and then 2013, June of 2013, we were raided.
And they brought about 20 SWAT agents in at 5.45 a.m. to the house, banging on the door,
screaming.
I was the first one to the door.
And I had about, well, about six agents pointing, you know, some pretty high-powered weaponry
in my face.
So you know, it kind of scared the crap out of all of us.
I can imagine.
Actually, I've been in that situation myself.
So I know what that's like.
Yeah.
And his elderly parents were upstairs.
You know, it kind of, it shocked them.
There was just the five of us living there.
So they ended up prosecuting all five of you, though.
They did.
The parents, your son, both of you.
Yeah.
That's just outrageous.
Yeah.
You know, that's what they do is they try to pile on as many charges as they possibly
can so they can then manipulate you to do what they want you to do.
Like we're going to torture your wife and your son and your parents if you don't do
exactly what we say to do.
You know, it's disgusting, you know, that our law enforcement has turned to this.
It's really the prosecutors and the police are in charge of the whole system and choosing
how to charge you and make you, you know, dance to their tune or else, right?
Yeah, it appeared that way.
They didn't arrest his parents, but they did charge them with operating a drug house.
It kind of makes it sound like a meth lab.
Yeah.
How old are you, Benton?
They are respectively, I think, 70.
At the time, they were 76 and 77 years old.
So Benton, I just got to let our audience know, you've been the recipient of some beneficial
cannabis oil here in Oregon as a legal medical marijuana patient.
I'm proud to say that, you know, we were able to help you get that medical marijuana permit
and have helped you out with some medicine in the past.
But I know, but right now you're on a pretty big dose of RSO oil.
A heavy, heavy dose.
Yeah.
Six grams a day.
That's a lot.
That six grams is, in fact, I don't think I've ever heard of anybody taking six grams
in a single day.
So that's a lot.
I figured you vaporize twice that much.
You would think so.
No, no, it's not true.
Maybe.
I wish I could.
But half of my right lung is full of tumors I just found out.
So now that cancer has metastasized to your lungs and where else?
And my liver.
Your liver and your lungs.
And so you've just been convicted when?
About 10 days ago?
Just about two weeks ago, yeah.
About two weeks ago.
And so fortunately, with a bond, the state has allowed you to come here and visit Oregon
a few times.
Right.
Yeah.
So they, yeah, they started letting me come here so I could survive to make it to the
end of the trial.
Right.
So I could.
Good point.
Do you want to go on with the story, Loretta, on what happened?
Sure.
Well, when we were arrested, his parents had bonded us out.
But a couple of weeks later, because we'd been on probation, our probation officers
issued warrants for our arrest again.
So back to jail we went.
This time there was a $5,000 cash only bond held over both of us.
And so his parents being, you know, broke, completely unable to get us out, they couldn't
do anything about it.
We ended up staying there.
Well, he stayed in for 40 days.
He was constantly trying to draw the attention of the medical staff, his tumors, which were
starting to grow without anything.
And I've got to say that I've seen some pictures of your tumors online.
And I'm just very sorry that you have to endure such painful lesions there.
They look pretty bad.
I've seen some other people with sarcoma back before they had the antiviral agents when
people were dying from AIDS.
Kind of reminded me of that.
And it's a similar kind of cancer, isn't it?
I imagine it's very similar.
I think it might be the same form that ended up killing so many AIDS patients, because
you have a compromised immune system.
That too.
Yeah, the immune system is not quite as compromised as it could be.
Some of it is.
It probably should be.
Yeah, but you've got this rare form of cancer.
So you want to tell us about the trial, Loretta?
Yes.
Well, it's taken several months since we got out of jail.
We had pretty good representation, each of us.
They had a lot of different things that they wanted to do.
They wanted to try to see if they could get all of the evidence suppressed and the whole
case thrown out of court, because we live in a rural area in Iowa.
It's on private property.
And so when the police had been going through our trash to try to find something, they said
they found a stem and that was the justification for the warrant.
They had been trespassing on a private drive.
So we had upcoming hearings for the motions on suppression to try to see if the warrant
was even valid.
All of these different things.
So it's taken an entire year since the original raid.
But we wanted a jury of our peers.
Fortunately we had attorneys who were with it all the way.
They were filing motions.
They were doing everything they could.
And the problem is his good attorney lost her license because, well, it doesn't seem
to make any sense.
She had been doing a lot of work for him.
And I think that there was somebody higher up trying to kind of cut her out of the way.
And as I'll describe to you what happened during the trial, sort of the control, mind
control or just wanting to have another conviction no matter what, it seemed like it was not
a fair trial.
The judge would not allow a medical defense.
He wouldn't even allow Ben to tell the jury that he had cancer.
He wasn't even allowed to discuss his condition at all.
So the jury had no idea what you folks were facing or the very reason you were doing this.
And then they also prosecuted your son.
Yes.
Yeah.
Well, his friend originally.
But they offered a plea agreement to his friend.
And I guess he took it because he was very scared.
He wasn't going to be throwing us under the bus, mind you.
He had been looking for an opportunity to become a state's witness so that it would
give him an opportunity to, when taking the witness stand, to just risk all, risk getting
thrown in contempt of court to say, look, this is what my friend was going through.
I was helping him.
He has cancer.
He was making cannabis oil.
Well, it seemed like the state was pretty much onto the strategy of our defense.
And they didn't allow that.
It controlled every aspect.
Every aspect of the jury trial.
And it took a good three days to even select a jury because so many people had already
read newspaper articles that the Quad City Times writer Brian Wellner had been following
up on our stories since September of last year.
And there was just so much control and constantly keeping the jury in the dark.
They would take them in the other room to address issues going on with Ben's health.
He needed to take a lot of breaks.
And then on the 7th of July, right in the middle of trial, he pretty much collapsed.
We had to rush him to the hospital, called an ambulance, and his potassium levels and
his hemoglobin had just dropped.
He'd been sweating profusely, just having cold sweats for the last couple of months.
Because at this point, he's at stage four of his cancer.
Everything metastasized when he was in jail, so it just kind of went from stage one to
stage three to stage four in a matter of months.
So he's at the point now where cold sweats and nausea and things like that start to set in.
So this happened without the jury having any idea.
They were just shoved off to their little deliberation room, probably under lock and
key and not allowed to even look out the window and see the fire trucks that came pulling
up in front of the, the ambulance pulling up in front of the courthouse.
And the judge was not very understanding, like he promised he would be, about Ben's condition.
He basically thought that Ben was malingering, that maybe he was faking something to try
to get out of this trial, which is not the case at all.
We got him to the hospital and they had to give him a transfusion.
And the doctor's orders were, no, he's not going anywhere tonight.
He's staying here.
We're going to watch over him.
And the next morning, they were trying to address, you know, keeping him, keeping his
pain medication stabilized and all of those things.
But the judge was insistent, well, he needs to be back the next morning.
We need to get on with this trial.
So it was just, it was inhumane.
That's incredibly inhumane.
Yeah.
I'm sorry.
I'm ashamed for our government that's done this to you.
And you know, I wish I could offer you sanctuary here in Oregon.
I mean, maybe we can put you in a local church or something, you know, and say, you know,
no more, you know, they're in the safe zone.
You know, they, that's an ancient concept that we should have something like that.
I think, especially for someone going through that, it's just heartbreaking.
We appreciate it too.
There's just no way we can bow out of this fight now.
Now, what do you think, they mentioned an appeal bond.
Right now, you're here in Oregon on a bond.
Do you think it's likely, have you had any communication that says you might be allowed
to continue to be on appeal bond?
Well, I'm actually not on a bond.
My wife is out on bond, but they let me out of jail to avoid any medical expenses.
I see.
I see.
So, technically until sentencing, if they sentence me to any jail time or any, anything
at all, they're going to try to put me in prison.
I don't know if they'll wait until I apply or appeal it before they try to put me in
jail.
Otherwise, if they put me in jail, then I can bond out from there.
Probably.
Yeah.
I was just curious, all the support that seems to be rallying around the case and all that
you've gone through.
I know in California, they have groups that show up at courthouses with signs and make
a lot of noise outside.
Have you had any community support?
Has there been?
There was noise of it happening, but we haven't seen a lot.
So, you're in a little area, though.
There's not any big urban area except Des Moines in Iowa, right?
For its area, the Quad Cities area is pretty big.
It's about Iowa City size, maybe bigger.
But the community support's been really, really good.
And why did you have such a problem with your attorneys taking your case in the direction
you wanted?
I mean, it's your case.
I was saddled with him with a month to go before jury selection, and then I wasn't even
contacted by him for another two weeks.
So, we had two weeks to go to build a case, and the first thing he wanted was to try to
deal with this on a plea.
I just demanded he never, ever enter into that train of thought again.
That's when we started clashing, but he had plans on trying to change things instead of
being straight with me and backing out when I still had time to give somebody else exactly
the same chance he had to at least support me.
Loretta, how do you think things are going to go for yourself and your son and your husband
Do you have any insight or just hopes and prayers?
Hopes and prayers, mostly.
It's been suggested that we'll have...
Well I did talk to his former attorney, and she said something about appeals bond.
So I'm really not completely educated about that whole process.
We have talked to a couple other people who have been through this process before who
think that we are in a position to wait.
I really don't...
At this point, I don't think after all the attention that this judge, Henry Latham, has
had, which has not been the right kind of attention.
He certainly is not a hero now.
Everyone in Iowa and basically nationwide, since the story went out on the Associated
Press, it's been everywhere.
They've had to shut down the phone lines to his lines and the prosecutor's phone lines.
There's just been so many people calling.
When is your sentencing coming up?
You're here in Oregon for just a few days, like a week or less than a week?
The sentencing is on August 28.
August 28.
So you want people to contact this judge and to be there in support of you on August 28,
obviously.
There is also a group on Facebook, Free Benton McKenzie.
So it's facebook.com slash Free Benton.
And Free Benton McKenzie is actually the public group.
And freebenton.org is the website that some local people did put together.
But they do have some, they do have basically an event coming up.
And there are quite a few people that are planning on being there.
I guess I'm not sure.
Where is that at?
That will be at the Scott County Courthouse in Davenport, Iowa.
So we will have some people showing up, maybe with picket signs, maybe just to show up in
the courtroom if, you know, if they'll let them.
So what's this judge's name in Scott County, Iowa, Davenport, Iowa?
Yes.
Judge Henry Latham.
Henry Latham.
All right.
