We're called the Arden Park Roots if you guys forgot who we are.
Come talk to us, we're really friendly fucking people.
Everyday we be pumping this into big town.
Everyday we be keeping it on the reel.
And we love the art that comes straight from the earth like rain.
Everyday we be pumping this into big town.
Everyday we be keeping it on the reel.
And we love the art that comes straight from the earth like rain.
Brapping, brapping we be rolling in conversion line.
Making cloudy from the door.
Say no, no, no, no, no.
We, we, we, we, we, we, we know how to roll.
Cause I'm back at the C, back at the C. Back, back, back at the key, back at the key.
That's on, gotta be gone, gotta be gone.
Song called Green and Thorne.
If you up you wanna know.
You wanna know like me, like me.
Riding early California, get up Tico, then M-Sis.
Get you on to Methadone, get all deported with my safety crew.
In Seattle, Tacoma, the aroma of the Urkel.
Colored purple bring a smile to a base of tomb.
Up in Bellingham, pulling out the bong.
I came back, back into the brim.
Pieces falling, several medicine.
Popping off the shoulder, now the road is limp.
A dozen of the digging, now the city never sure.
But I'm a winger, baby.
Everyday we be pumping this into me, yeah.
Everyday we be keeping it on the reel.
And we even love the art that comes straight from the earth like rain.
Everyday we be pumping this into me, yeah.
Everyday we be keeping it on the reel.
And we even love the art that comes straight from the earth like rain.
When I look back at all the crap we pulled back in Spokane, Washington.
Yes, we give them a mile, we just steamroll through those days again.
East of Idaho, we're welcoming Missoula.
Them boys ain't getting noisy in the state of your potato skin.
All the way through Montana, the land of shiny barbed.
So we blast the show in Billings, off to South Dakota.
It's Rapid City's quota.
Coming up to Dubb, we're screaming, fancy liquor,
blinders on the blinders, just a dimmer dim.
Down to Seattle, pull the kids in on a weeknight.
Drinking down the south of Colorado, get them ducking by.
Up the beach, a few ribs on the neck, I know the vibe.
Go to grab the dial and sail it down until the moon we fly.
Arizona, Blackstaff, body cams.
Scottsdale, can you hear me? I still have your pull of cotton.
See us down in Phoenix, laying records to them Zora kid.
Then down to Tucson where them college kids blazing in.
California, San Diego, where the ladies at?
Ocean in Hermosillo, where we get it faded at.
Off the slope, we always go, get the party started.
Then Sacktown, back in every throw, we play it loud.
Every day we be pumping and said to me,
Every day we be keeping it on the reel,
And we will love the earth coming straight from the earth like me.
Every day we be pumping and said to me,
Every day we be keeping it on the reel,
And we will love the earth coming straight from the earth like me.
All around the world, many faces, different places.
But when you get your place, go with all the different faces.
Contagious when we be living it up, rocking it all night long.
Jamie, in the Navy, roots get you in the zone.
Coast to coast, don't know what those representin' in your town.
Guaranteed true love that we mix with the breaking sound.
How it goes down, turn it up when you feel us.
Got lights, we'll block it, we'll make it shine.
How it goes down, turn it up when you feel us.
Got lights, we'll block it, take you up over the Central Bay.
It's like in the form of the blunt, till you're ripping the candy scum.
I got whatever you want, but I'm as big as in my throne.
I got whatever we take, just don't give me no break.
I want you to know you're dead, rock that show, give you a taste.
Light it up, light it up, the way we light it up.
Light it up, the way we light it up.
Light it up, the way we light it up.
Light it up, the way we light it up.
LIGHT IT UP WE LIGHT IT UP WE LIGHT IT UP WE LIGHT IT UP WE NONONONONO
