Chris Conrad, author of Hemp Lifeline to the Future.
I met Chris back in the late 1980s
when the hemp industry was a distant dream.
Chris understood that somebody needed
to put together a trade organization.
Before there were hempsters,
we had the Business Alliance for Commerce in Hemp.
That's how forward thinking Chris Conrad is.
He decided that Jack's little pamphlet
needed to get big and go mainstream
and became the editor of The Emperor Wears No Clothes,
original edition.
And has continued on in his current voice
as the West Coast Leaf.
Everybody pick yourself up a copy.
It's a great journal of what's really going on out here.
And the whole country needs to see this.
Chris Conrad.
Hey, thank you a lot, Don.
I appreciate that.
Yeah, Don is like a champion too.
It's great to be here today.
I really appreciate you guys being out here.
Like Don was saying though,
what started me on this whole thing,
I've always worked with news media
and with progressive politics.
And I was told by a group of progressive activists
that you could never change the marijuana laws,
that we'd be stuck with them as they were.
And I disagree with that.
I think that knowledge is power and power makes change.
And so if I could create enough knowledge,
that would give people the power
to make the change that was necessary.
So I started off by doing brochures and things like that.
And as Don mentioned,
I quickly recognized that I wanted to have a book out there.
And so I came across like a newspaper thing
called The Emperor Wears No Clothes.
And it took me six months to get ahold of Jack Herror
and convince him that it was time
to put it into a real book form and go forward.
So we revised the book in 1990
and I started writing my own things and so forth.
But I was on the periphery of the media for quite a bit.
And one of the things that I was noticing
was I could influence the media to a certain extent
but it was not particularly satisfying.
I remember, for example,
when I got hold of the Wall Street Journal
and I worked with them to put together an article about hemp
and how it was the coming wave of the future and so forth.
And then I arranged for them to do an interview
with Jack Herror.
And so Jack, when a reporter walked in,
Jack pulled out a joint and started smoking it.
And so instead of doing a whole article on hemp,
they decided to do a personality piece on Jack Herror,
the crusader for hemp who smokes pot in front of reporters.
And so it was an interesting story
but it was rather disappointing to me
because I was not looking for a personality piece
at that point.
I was looking for something major, which it kind of was,
but it wasn't quite what I wanted.
And we kept doing events here and there.
We found out that if you wanted to do a press conference,
you wanted to get the media to show up,
you promised them coffee and donuts.
You have a much higher rate of having them show up
than if you don't.
And I remember one particular event that we did
where we had speakers coming from all over the country
I remember it was Sacramento or Los Angeles,
one of those two.
There was a lot of news coverage, a lot of cameras there.
And then we watched the news report
and they basically didn't really cover
what any of the speakers said or what we were about.
They went around the edges of it.
They talked to people who were saying,
well, I don't know what this is all about today.
And people who said,
well, I don't think pot should be legalized anyway,
who happened to walk by in the street.
So it's like the news specifically ignored
what we had to say in order to cover people
who looked like we didn't know what was going on.
And so my experience with the news media
is that I talk to them a lot.
I don't get mentioned very often,
but I influence what happens in the articles and so forth.
And so that's one way of getting some power out of things.
But we came to the conclusion
that we wanted to do a little bit more than that.
And I know a lot of people start magazines and things
just because they'd like to print pictures of pot.
And I know that people like to do the radio shows,
which I like to do,
but I don't have the commitment to be there every week
to do something like that.
So I got together with a guy named Richard Lee,
who's a founder of Oaks University and another fellow.
And we put together the Oaks AM News,
which was a quarterly newspaper from 2005 to 2007.
And we were quite effective accepting that.
The thing is we have a different approaches
because Richard didn't want us to put anything,
any bad news in the paper.
He wanted it to all be good news.
And to me, I think he just really can't ignore
the amount of bad news that's going on.
So we had this kind of perpetual little conflict
about how we cast all the articles.
Fortunately that was saved when our third partner
went off and took the money, bankrupted us.
So we didn't have to argue about that anymore.
But luckily my wife, Mickey Norris,
it took me a year to convince her
that we really needed to make progress
with the newspaper again.
So we came up with the West Coast Leaf.
And what we cover in every issue is we wanna have articles
from all over the country, primarily on the West Coast.
We wanna have photos from all over the place.
We wanna cover events all over.
But mainly what we're trying to do
is to spread information about who's doing what,
what they're achieving, and how other people can do
something similar in their area.
And if they wanna get involved with an issue,
who do they talk to and how do they become activists?
Because the function of our newspaper,
unlike most newspapers, which is to kind of
give you something to read over your coffee,
our function is to give you something
that you can then get pissed off enough about
that you decide to go home and do something about it.
You have very specific things that you can do about it.
And you know the names of the people to do it.
And you know the name of the court ruling
that might affect your life.
And you know the recent decisions that have been happening
on the state legislative level,
on the national level, and so forth.
And I think this is extremely important
because, let me just take the case of Obama right now.
There's a lot of people who feel very disillusioned
with Barack Obama as president.
Somebody said to me, well, he's the best president
that they'll let us have.
If he was any better than that,
they would have killed him by now.
So whether that's true or not, I don't know.
But I do know that a lot of people I talk to
are quite disillusioned with him.
And yet, if you really follow what's going on
with Barack Obama, on our issue in particular,
you find that he has delivered in spades
like no other president that we have ever had before.
Obama came forward, yeah, he deserves a big hand right now.
Because whatever he's done elsewhere,
aside from the fact that he's bringing the troops
out of Iraq as he promised, on our issue in particular,
first thing he did soon after taking office
was he announced that Eric Holder
would be his attorney general.
And Eric Holder did a statement
that we're going to follow the promise to,
and the medical marijuana rates.
And of course, then the DEA raided a bunch of places
the next day to say,
we don't care what the president does.
Well, soon after that,
they got the memo on factual science,
which said that they have to use science
instead of political beliefs
as a basis of their decisions,
which is a huge threat to the DEA.
As you were hearing, the DEA is,
they're using lies to keep marijuana illegal.
The president has ordered them,
they have to redo their work
based upon scientific accuracy.
The president then came back and issued a memo
saying that the federal government
does not have the right to preempt states
on criminal laws and so forth.
And that in fact, the state should be encouraged
to diversify from the federal policies
in order to create greater experimentation.
He quoted Supreme Court Justice Brandeis
that the states that are a laboratory for democracy.
And he brought that out.
And so he again told the government,
the DEA to leave us alone.
And then still the raids continued.
And then in October of last year,
he issued the memo which said specifically
that the DEA is supposed to leave people alone
in states where,
who are compliant with the state's
medical marijuana laws in their states.
And so we've got this long track record of it.
And as you may have heard recently,
the Veterans Administration has changed their policy
to allow veterans to use medical marijuana
in states where it's legal.
If you thought George Bush would let that happen,
if you think John McCain would have let that happen,
if you think Sarah Palin would have let that happen,
you got some rethinking to do.
And so we have to recognize these things
and we have to be putting into the front
because what the opposition is trying to do
is make us feel disillusioned with Obama
and disillusioned with the Democrats
so that we let the Republicans come back
and take power again.
I'm not taking this from a partisan point of view.
I'm taking it from the point of view
of who has delivered what that does good for us.
Who came through with the health care program?
Who came through with these decisions
about allowing for medical marijuana?
Who came through for us over and over again?
Who's pulling us out of Iraq?
It's the Democrats.
And so for the people to say all politicians are alike
is the same,
is to fall into the lies
that are being put forth by Rupert Murdoch
and that's spewing not as factually known as Fox News.
Now we have a similar issue
on when it comes to the West Coast Leaf
and I'm gonna encourage everyone to take a copy,
which is that we have a situation in California right now
over Prop 19 where some people who are making money off
of the current situation like to project it
that somehow there's something so terribly flawed
about Prop 19 that we, even though we use marijuana,
should be voting against it.
And a lot of this is based upon one thing,
is a guy named Dennis Perone, good friend of mine,
who decided to take it upon himself
to spread false information about the initiative.
But because he was so known
within the medical marijuana circles,
people just believed it.
And in fact, it's gotten into the Los Angeles Times
and it's gotten in the Sacramento News
that this law will create new felonies.
That is absolutely factually a lie.
It is false information.
But the news media, because Dennis Perone,
who is their hero of medical marijuana is saying it,
they don't recheck and read the initiative
to find out what it really says.
And so one of the things that people say to us,
oh, we should get both sides of the argument.
Well, I'll tell you what, we do not publish lies.
There's plenty of people publishing lies out there.
If you wanna get the government's side of lies
about the initiative, you go to any other newspaper
and they will tell you the government's lies.
Our job is to screen it out
and make sure that what you're getting is accurate.
And so you're not gonna get Dennis Perone's fake idea
of what the initiative does.
When you read the West Coast League,
you're gonna find out what the initiative really does.
When you read our newspaper, if we make a mistake,
we're gonna come back to the next issue
and clean it up and let you know what that mistake was.
We're not gonna feed you a bunch of stuff.
So then your question is, how do you benefit
from the work that we're willing to put in?
And this is how you do it.
You write us an article that tells us what you're doing.
You do it with a news hook.
You give us a good photograph
that shows there's something going on
and a nice little caption that explains it.
But you have to write in good, plain English.
I'm talking about a direct declaratory sentence.
I want to start off with, somebody did something important
and this is why it's important to you
and they did it on such of a date and where they did it.
I don't want, October the 5th was a historic day
for people all over the world
who like to smoke pot and then the radio was kind of,
it's like, you know, hello, I want to know what happened.
You know, every day is a historic day
because the next day it's gone, you know.
It's not that it's a historic day that's important.
What we need to know is what really happened.
And we also, I know people like to write stuff
in very roundabout, couched ways.
I just like to say, the more specific, the more direct,
the more clear you can be, the more likely you are
to get your report into our paper.
If you get into our hands, we're gonna put it out,
150,000 plus copies, we're gonna get spread
all around the country and other publications read ours
and then they'd cover it.
For example, the story about the airports in California
that don't, that'll let people fly
with medical marijuana now,
we're the ones who broke that story.
And we also, we wrote one story about a guy
who had been framed by the cops
and the cop who was, we've said,
was involved in framing him,
then went and helped the guy get out
so that he would not be,
so that people would not think he was a bad guy
because people read in the West Coast Leaf
that he was being an asshole
and they told him that he was being an asshole
and he actually went and helped out the guy
that we had reported that he had screwed over
and he said, I didn't really mean for that to happen.
So, you know, the power is right here
and we get the information from you,
so I've gotta stop, but please,
keep giving us your articles,
we're gonna make sure that they get out
to the rest of the world
and we're gonna make sure that they get the true story,
not the bullshit.
Thank you, Chris Conrad.
