Here is our show and tell, our sharing for tonight. This first thing is a
specific medicine container. You see it says American Hemp. It says it's great.
I'll read the label. It says great for nervous depression, irritation of the
genital urinary tract, painful micturation and and or use for scalding,
burning, frequent low mental conditions, wakefulness. This is just recommended for
just about everything and it's got a date on the back. It says American Hemp
is considered an anodyne, hypnotic, antispasmodic, producing sleep even when
opium and morphine fail. Efficient in delirium tremens, which is what
alcoholics get, infantile convulsions and fevers, neuralgia, gout, rheumatism, low
mental conditions, insanity and inflammatory conditions. It's often
preferable to opium and where opium disagrees. So that's what it says on this
jar right there in tiny letters. I read it. And this one is from a currently
operating company, Park Davis. This is in a solid powdered extract. You see it has
about half of the containers are still in here. This is from 1910. It says Indian
Cannabis on this little label in the back and it's a Park Davis product
produced in Detroit, Michigan. It is powdered hashish or keef we often call it, but they
call it powdered extract of cannabis. Right next to it is another powdered
extract of cannabis. Let's get it away from the leaf a little bit. There we go.
Oh no, back the other way. There, there, that's better. So powdered extract. This one's from Eli
Lilly and I have a series of Eli Lilly products here that are going to the
Cannabis Museum in Athens, Ohio here in short order. But this is a specific
powdered cannabis product. Then right next to it from the Merrill Company is
also a powdered extract of cannabis. All three of these jars were made to hold
one, two, three, an ounce of cannabis. In fact, this one even says right on the
back one ounce. So you can see this one's empty. This is the only one that
has some of the contents in it. Right next to it here, maybe you can close in a
little bit on that. This is Chloridine. Chloridine was a medicine for pain and
sleep and it's also from Eli Lilly. It is cannabis, morphine, peppermint,
chloroform, and caspicum. So this has a lot of different things in this
Chloridine from Eli Lilly in Indianapolis. And so it was used for pain
and spasms. And so it, like again, I said again, it has morphine, cannabis, capsicum,
chloroform. This stuff will just knock you out basically. Then right next to it
we have another Eli Lilly product. Cannabis tincture number 17. Eli Lilly,
Park Davis, these guys each had over two dozen different cannabis products that
were slightly different in the extracting agent and the contents and
concentrations. So this was their number 17 cannabis tincture. Right next to it
here we have number 96. You see it says poison. They thought it was poison for a
while. This bottle is from 1880s. They thought you could overdose
on it. Well it was one ounce of cannabis extract in nine ounces of alcohol. That's
what it says on there. So this is a number 96. And right here next to it all
a little bigger version of number 96. Again from about 1905. About a
hundred and ten years old here. And so then right next to it we have one from
1870. And this one is particularly interesting. It has a label here on the
back. It isn't in real good shape. This is a cannabis indica USP. On the back of it
here it says not poisonous according to the best authorities though formerly
regarded so. It's an antispasmodic, analgesic, anesthetic, and narcotic. It's
an aphrodisiac. Specifically recommended in spasmodic conditions of and painful
ailments for preventing rather than treating migraines. Almost as specific in
that form. Insanity peculiar to women. In other words menstrual problems. Diagnosed
by mental worry or moral shock. So if you're a woman on PMS and you have
mental worry or moral shock. This company thought this was the thing for you. It's
an ant. It goes on and says in the best known hypnotic and delirium tremens.
Again if you're an alcoholic this would help you get off the out the booze. It's
anodyne power is marked in chronic mitriitis and dyspnoea. Dyspnoea again is
menstrual pains. Used with excellent results in habituates of opium, chloroform,
and cocaine use. So they also recommended it to get off opium, chloroform, and
cocaine. In hysterical cases as claimed by chloro or opium it's acting especially
well. So that's what Eli Lilly said in approximately 1870. Then right next door
we have this cough and cold bossom. And it is alcohol, chloroform, and antimony
tart. And so it has a bottle inside and this nifty little thing here. Here is the
bottle. And so maybe we can close in on that a little bit. Then it has this
insert that is actually printed in 13 different languages. You can read in 13
languages. In case you're you know newly immigrated here this was a medicine. This
is from 1885. It was produced in Pennsylvania, Plymouth, Pennsylvania. Right
next to it we have our regular hemp flame of freedom. This is hemp seed oil
with a hemp wick. This is next week's wick right here folks. And this is some
raw hemp oil. And this is after we've had the hemp wick in there and burning it.
This is just a little shot glass with some hemp seed oil in it. We light it up.
So this is the reason that marijuana is illegal. It's not a coincidence I believe
that an Israeli Canadian energy company called Adir Energy. Again you can look
them up. AdirAnergy.com. This Israeli Canadian oil company. I've been
talking for years that the only reason that marijuana is illegal isn't really
about drugs. It's really about money and power and the continued centralization
of economic and political control. And it's specifically about energy and
fiber. So these are the reasons marijuana is illegal. They don't want us
to have this naturally decentralized resource. They want us to have to buy it
from them. Does that sound familiar to you? Anyway here's our hemp ball of twine
and this is hempcrete. It's limestone powdered down called quicklime and it's
broken up and it's stronger than concrete. And then this is a little hemp
hemp stalk. We like hemp stalks around here don't we Eric? Yes we do. Alright so
that's the end of our show and tell for tonight.
