These are all newly acquired, freshly opened, nifty little things.
This one is a corn, the first two are corn removers.
This one is from Jane's and it's ether and cannabis indica.
It says right there, close in on that.
And then this says it's a non-proprietary formula of salicylic acid or aspirin
and cannabis indica, which it says is poison.
And that's the formula and it's medicated, elastic adhesive,
ectoplast corn rings to ripe out corns and other nasty things.
This is a couple of different chloridine and neurologic medicines,
but this one has morphine, extract of cannabis indica, nitroglycerin,
peppermint, just a little bit of peppermint in there to add a little flavor, I think.
It's a nifty little label, multi-color.
It's from an independent pharmaceutical company of Worcester, Massachusetts.
We're looking at about 1890.
It's embossed on the back with IPCO, the name of the company,
and a nifty little poison thing here.
Next door we find Schieffelin's neurologic medicine.
It is cannabis and opium and other nifty things from Schieffelin's in Philadelphia.
This also is a neurological medicine.
It's from Park Davis of Detroit, Michigan.
It is opium extract and cannabis and a lot of other little things in there.
That's from Park Davis.
This last one is tonight's piece de resistance.
It's powdered extract of Indian cannabis from Park Davis.
It's about half full.
You can see we might call it keef.
This is circa 1880 powdered extract of cannabis, powdered hashish.
Like I say, it's about half full.
It's got a thing on the back.
This one's a pretty nifty one.
It has nice writing on it.
It's owing to the character of this drug, and it's a powder,
equal medicinal value, and it's a narcotic like opium.
It relieves pain and spasms but does not diminish the appetite
or check the secretions.
That's from Park Davis.
That's what you call really cured, huh?
Yeah, that's been cured.
Definitely aged cannabis.
Now I'm not ever going to open this.
This is a valuable antique, but my understanding is that it degrades
at about 10% a year, and since it's about 120 years old,
it was gone a long time ago.
Time has passed.
