Video taped live at the studios of City Video at the Rage Nightclub.
It is time for Cannabis Common Sense, the show that tells you the truth about marijuana
and the politics behind its prohibition.
Now here's the host of the show, Paul Stanford and Paul Loney.
Hello and welcome to another exciting edition of Cannabis Common Sense.
My name is Paul Stanford.
And I'm Paul Loney.
We're here with the Campaign for the Restoration and Regulation of Hemp.
We're an Oregon political committee that's circulating a petition, the Oregon Cannabis
Tax Act, which will tax and regulate the sales of marijuana to adults and allow medicinal
marijuana and completely legalize industrial hemp.
It's true.
As our tagline at the beginning of the show says, this is the truth.
We're here to tell you the truth.
And our petition is about telling the truth and getting the truth back out there, which
is why we would call our political action committee to restore hemp.
We want to restore hemp to its rightful place, to its truthful place.
Yeah, hemp produces more fiber, protein, and oil than any other plant on this planet.
And our petition would allow Oregon farmers to cultivate this valuable crop and allow
Oregon industries to develop sustainable products and practices.
The entire crop will be purchased by the Oregon Liquor Control Commission and then be sold
to state-run stores and packaged that way for use.
Part of that also would, they would package it to pharmacies and control it for pharmacies.
And so we would work that way with it, which would help patients who need it for medical
purposes.
Yes, it would also allow doctors to prescribe it through those pharmacies.
And that wouldn't be taxed.
The marijuana in pharmacies would be sold at cost, so it would be very inexpensive.
The sales to adults through the state liquor store system, we would have a tax on the sales
of the product to adults and through any bars or public houses that wanted to add marijuana
as something, as long as they bar minors from entering and they have a license, they could
be supplied by the OLCC.
We actually changed the name of the OLCC to the Oregon Intoxicant Control Commission,
rather than the Oregon Liquor Control Commission, because we'll be including cannabis in
their wares.
And it would make more sense anyways, because the Oregon Liquor Control Commission right
now does deal with certain medical drugs and it packages liquor as medicine for some people.
And so then also what we really want to point out is that this does allow, this question
always comes up, it does allow people to grow at home, because we classify seeds and starts
as hemp and hemp would be not regulated by this initiative.
You'd be allowed to grow hemp.
So as in the Netherlands today, the cultivation of marijuana for personal use and the sales
of seeds and small plants and starts or cuttings would be legalized.
And so you wouldn't be mandated to go through the state system.
Since most people who smoke tobacco don't grow their own tobacco, we would guess that
there would still be a pretty open market through the liquor store system and local
taverns and public houses.
Well definitely, because not everybody has a green thumb, let's face it.
And not everybody wants to take responsibility of watering a plant on a weekly basis or whatever
and having to worry about it.
Some of you just want to pop down to the local store and buy some or go into the local public
house and enjoy a little bit with your friends.
And so that's what this is all about, is basically restoring freedom and freedom of choice.
And one thing I want to make clear right up front is, sure we like to see public houses
open up after this initiative passes, but it's still illegal under this to drive under
the influence, under the influence of anything it's still illegal.
So we want to make that perfectly clear to start off with.
And I'm real happy that this does cover the medical purposes for marijuana.
A lot of people out there use marijuana on a daily basis.
Some people use it on a weekly basis when they need strikes, but they do need marijuana
for a medical purpose.
And this addresses that.
This takes them out of the black market, out of the hands of the common criminals, out
of their hands of trying to grow it for themselves, and says, okay, we're going to treat it like
a regular herb, a pharmaceutical herb.
Exactly.
It would allow the sale through pharmacies.
And so people would be certain that they're getting medicinal quality marijuana through
pharmacies.
So we're doing that through a petition process.
And right now we have, closing in on about almost 20,000 signatures, we need to turn
in about 100,000 signatures because we need 73,261 valid registered Oregon voter signatures
signed to put this on the ballot.
So we need your help to do that.
We've been sending out a lot of petitions in the past month.
We've mailed out well over 1,300.
We've been lobbying our liquor store systems.
We need your help to put this on the ballot.
We've only got until July of 1998 to get the rest of the signatures.
So even if you can only get one signature, your own, or you want to get your friends,
or you want to help us by coming to something like the Rolling Stone concerts on January
30th and 31st, we'll be staffing that.
If you'd like to come out and help us in public, please give us a call at 235-4606.
That's 235-4606.
Our office is manned from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Monday through Friday.
You'll find us in there a lot of the times otherwise.
And we have an extensive voicemail system that can handle over 100 calls.
So please call us.
We'd like to send you this petition.
Yeah, and if you're outside of the Portland viewing area, of course, it's area code 503.
And the Rolling Stones concert is up here in Portland.
But definitely, it should be a lot of fun.
We're getting people together to go out there and petition in teams on both nights.
So come up for one night or both nights.
Yeah, so Friday and Saturday night.
And I'm sure afterwards, we'll be retiring to a nice place to have a celebratory drink.
So come on down and help us petition and meet some friends.
And if you can't do that, like Paul said, get your own signature, that of your friends,
that of your parents, your roommates, whoever.
So we need all the signatures we can get.
Give us a call and get those petitions at the number on your screen.
That's area code 503-235-4606.
If you have access to the internet at your home, at the library,
or through a local university or school, you can look at our website at www.crrh.org.
You can even print these petitions right from the internet and watch streaming videos and other things.
So we urge you to look at our website because it's just chock full of information.
We've got a news archive of stories on cannabis from around the world that goes back to 1992.
That's mirrored in the Netherlands and other places.
Yeah, and so please help as you can.
Tonight, we were going to have a guest on our show, a victim of the marijuana task force,
a victim of an illness that needs marijuana and needs cannabis
to help out with those symptoms of that illness.
That would have been Diane Densmore, who probably a lot of you have heard of.
She was a victim of the marijuana task force.
She ran the Cannabis Buyers Club, a local version of it here,
which helped out people here who needed it as their drug of medicinal need and medicinal health.
But she can't be here because she's suffering from some medical problems right now
due to the fact that the police have harassed her and she can't get access.
Yeah, actually I talked to her this evening.
And she was a person who was running the alternative health clinic here in Portland
and was busted, I guess it was in late September initially.
Then they came back in late October and busted her again and took her to jail for over a week.
They held her in there and I'm sure most of you feel a lot safer
because this lady, Diane Densmore, was locked up.
But she is now having to take a urinalysis test at least once a week,
call in daily, seven days a week, down to the Multnomah County jail and their supervisors
and report periodically to them upon demand and to undergo urinalysis testing.
And because of that she can't use her medicine and she's doing really, really poorly.
She says her cardiac problems are starting to increase
and she's got a number of other medical problems.
And she's under an incredible amount of stress.
And she misses her friends, the people she used to work with in the club.
She really said she was missing some of those folks.
So if you want to get in touch with Diane Densmore and give her some support, give us a call.
We can put you in touch with her.
Call us at 235-4606.
She couldn't make it tonight.
Hopefully she'll be back with us in mid to late January when we tape again.
So she'll be, hopefully she'll be feeling a little bit better
and can give us a report directly.
Yeah, it's just really a shame that the police had to spend all of our tax dollars on this.
You know, there's a, they had a multi-month surveillance on the internal health center.
They sent in undercover police numerous times.
They sent in...
Informants.
They sent in street informant in.
And the thing is, you know, they had a real doctor write up real notes.
We don't know why this doctor did this.
Whether this doctor was pressured because he was under some sort of suspicion himself
for some sort of crime or whether the doctor is a drug lawyer and wanted to take part in it.
And if that's the case, then he's writing, you know, false notes in which he should report
to the state licensing board of medicine to figure out why this guy is writing phony prescriptions
for non-existent ailments.
So there's a lot of questions there that haven't been answered by the local police department
or the local district attorney.
And so I would suggest, you know, calling local district attorney's office up.
Multnomah County District Attorney's Office.
They live in tri-county area.
They're in the blue pages of the phone book.
Under Multnomah County District Attorney's Office, call them up and say,
hey, why are you folks prosecuting Diane Dinsmore and others?
It's not just her.
There's other people as well that were arrested, you know, from this whole fallout,
this marijuana task force.
It's just a travesty.
Yeah.
They arrested some of the people who were helping there, volunteering.
And it's a shame that very ill people, people who are dying.
In fact, the alternative health clinic,
a few of their patients would be dying every week or a lot.
You know, people who have cancer and advanced HIV.
And they found that cannabis helped them.
Cannabis helped the cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy
restore their appetite.
Cannabis helped the AIDS patients restore their appetite.
They were suffering from the wasting syndrome.
So to go in and arrest the people providing relief to these people, to me,
seems particularly evil and cruel.
Unfortunately, some of the officers involved in that have questionable ethics,
in my opinion.
A lot of officers, though, support innovations like the Oregon Cannabis Tax
Act.
And they want to make certain that they don't have to go out and arrest
non-violent family raising adults using marijuana in the privacy of their home.
So a lot of times, we have law enforcement officers sign our petition.
So we urge you to help us put this on the ballot.
Give us a call and get the petition at 235-4606.
Correct.
Call us and get the petition.
You'll be amazed at how many of your friends have already signed this petition
or would be willing to sign it as soon as they see this.
A lot of people still don't know it exists out there.
So we need your help to help get the word out that, hey,
there's a petition out there to make cannabis legal and regulated in this state.
We can be the leaders once again.
Oregon is known as being the leader for many things, especially in health care.
And we can do it.
So we need your help.
But right now, talk about with Diane Densmore and the other folks arrested.
I mean, it was just a travesty.
The Portland police come in, spend all that money.
And there was no complaints from the public on this.
This was all police-generated, the whole controversy about this.
There's no, the police, they didn't say they were getting calls from the public
to go out and bust these people.
People had gotten some publicity for running the Alternative Health Center,
for providing cannabis for people who desperately needed it as medicine.
But the police didn't, you know, they created their own crime, in a sense.
It seems to me that they have a political agenda, at least
the officers in the drug enforcement units that pursued
this case to arrest medical patients.
Because the district attorney of Multnomah County, Michael Shrunk,
had said that he wasn't going to prosecute marijuana cases.
Well, here he is prosecuting a marijuana case.
So that's one politician, I guess.
But we'd like to point out that some people
say that marijuana is medicinally available over the counter.
Because there's a substance called marinal that
contains one of the psychoactive substances that's in cannabis.
Contains THC, or tetrahydrocannabinol.
There are other non-psychoactive and psychoactive substances in marijuana
that have medicinal properties.
CBD, or cannabidiol, is a antispastic agent
that stops multiple sclerosis patients' spasms very efficiently.
If you're undergoing a spasm with multiple sclerosis,
you can't swallow a marinal pill and wait an hour and a half for it to work.
Just a few hits of marijuana help multiple sclerosis patients.
And the British Medical Association just noted that in a survey
in an article they had in the British Medical Journal,
saying that marijuana should be medicinally available.
The Oregon Cannabis Tax Act, the question itself
says exactly, yes vote, permit state license, cultivation,
and sale of marijuana for medical purposes and to adults.
It really stresses the medical aspects of our initiative.
Because we set up a number of medical studies
through the Oregon Health Sciences University
and other medical research facilities here in the state of Oregon.
And all of that's funded through the taxation
of the recreational sale of marijuana.
So our initiative will help medical patients
not only get medicinal marijuana, but also access the health they need.
Yeah, if you stop and think about it,
smoking marijuana is the best delivery control substance for THC.
Much better than a pill, as you said, that you pill.
You have difficulty of swallowing sometimes,
the time it takes for it to break down in your stomach,
then to go through the stomach wall, the lining, into your bloodstream,
and then to the muscles that need it, or the nerves,
or wherever it needs to go to, versus smoking.
It's always bad to put things in your lungs,
but if that's the only choice you have, into your lungs right away.
I mean, it's getting the oxygen and blood mixes right away.
So within minutes, it's where it needs to go to.
Some of the patients that take marijuana
will complain that an hour and a half later,
they either are too stoned, that the effects strike too suddenly,
and too intensely, or they don't get that effect at all.
So they really can't get an effective dose.
They can't measure it too well orally.
It is the best delivery control substance.
And I want to get back to a point you made about Michael Schrunk,
the local DA being a politician, and he is.
And I've heard him interviewed on a talk show,
a radio talk show here in town,
and he basically said that,
I'm a politician, and right now, marijuana is against the law.
But, I mean, you know, obviously he left it open,
and if the law has changed, you know, he'll be supportive of it.
Michael Schrunk is not going to be out in front of the band leading it.
Some people think that Michael Schrunk should be,
and, you know, his job as a politician,
and he's not going to be out in front of the band,
which is where we come in.
We have to lead the band.
There's, you know, a majority of people here in Oregon
that want to have medical marijuana available.
And, you know, we can do that through this petition,
and then people like Michael Schrunk will just say,
OK, it's there, you know, this is the people I've spoken.
And, you know, we can do this with this initiative.
So, I just, I was going to say, you know,
Michael Schrunk is a politician,
and he's being pushed around by the police department here,
certain members of it.
Yeah.
I heard a report recently that Michael Schrunk actually admitted
that he had a very ill relative up in Washington State
that was undergoing chemotherapy,
and that he actually procured and supplied marijuana
to this very ill relative.
So, now his office is in charge of prosecuting
a number of very ill people that, like his relative,
needed marijuana to help save their lives
and treat their symptoms.
I don't know whether that's true or not,
but still, though, I mean, it just shows you
if Michael Schrunk was saying earlier
he wouldn't prosecute these,
but he was presented by the police department
in such a high-profile case.
That's what it comes down to.
This was a very high-profile case.
And a deputy DA that really wants to pursue it, too, I think.
No, but he was presented to them by the police department.
If it would have been just one little person growing
and given to a few others,
he could have, you know, had to fall between the cracks.
But because the police spent so much time on it,
so much money, so many officers doing this,
and two well-publicized raids,
I mean, both raids were, you know,
Oregonian front-page news, I believe.
And on every channel in the area.
And so that he had, he couldn't just ignore it.
He had to go ahead and prosecute this.
You know, the police pushed him into it,
or certain members of the police.
Certain members of the police, you know,
don't believe in your rights.
That's what I've got, you know,
that's the simple, sad fact.
You know, most police officers do believe in your rights,
but some don't, and they're the ones that are,
you know, pushing around the DA's office, sadly.
So another thing that our ballot title says,
specifically on the medical issue,
is that the commission will sell marijuana
at cost to pharmacies and medical research facilities
for medical purposes.
We need your help.
That's why we're here, is to get you involved
in the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act.
So call us, please, at 235-4606.
That's 235-4606, and get these petitions.
If you're outside of the Portland area,
call 503-235-4606.
We'll be happy to send you out one, two,
a dozen, 50 petitions, however many you need,
let us know, because we need your help
to put this on the ballot.
Well, you know, that's important,
that the commission will sell this medical cannabis
to licensed research facilities,
because one of the first things that Ronald Reagan did
when he came into office, he cut off all funding
for research for cannabis.
And as we all know, that researchers are dependent upon
funding, usually federal, for their research,
especially in medical.
And if you don't do research, you don't keep your job
as a professor at a university,
or you don't get tenure to keep your job,
you gotta keep doing your research
and keep publishing papers.
And as soon as Ronald Reagan cut off the federal funding
for cannabis, every researcher just dropped it.
And if we can present to them, at a reasonable cost,
medical marijuana, cannabis, there'll be a lot more
researchers back into the subject here.
Also, they cut off the supply to get legal marijuana
for medicinal purposes for a study.
You have to get permission from NIDA,
the National Institute of Drug Abuse.
And NIDA hasn't granted permission.
There's one study that was going to go forward,
done at the University of California
at San Francisco Medical School,
and they wanted to study the effects of marijuana
on HIV-infected patients.
And the Dr. Abrams there, Donald Abrams,
sought permission to receive legal medical marijuana.
And his study was funded all through,
but NIDA, and approved at a number of different levels,
but NIDA denied access to medical marijuana.
It's difficult for these researchers,
not only to get funding, but they can't even get
the substance from the government.
So I said that this one here, because we'll provide it
to licensed research facilities at cost,
I mean, it's gonna open up a boom in research for this.
Yeah, a number of states allowed medical marijuana,
but they never provided a method to supply medical patients.
In fact, 36 states, including Oregon,
had medical marijuana at one time or another.
Over, I think it's 26 now, have medical marijuana today,
legally allowed, but only in California
are they allowing patients to cultivate their own,
and that's the only place where there really is
a system of delivery for patients.
And of course, though, every researcher
who's actually studied this has said that basically,
there's enough research out there already
that says that cannabis does work for a number
of illnesses, whatever you wanna call it,
of problems with the human body, we know that.
You know, that every time they do a research,
they just go ahead and catalog all the past studies.
And they're doing it again.
Yep, they're doing it again.
They're doing another, National Institute of Medicine,
the National Science Foundation, is just doing another one
at the behest of the federal drug czar.
Yep, that was.
Because of the passage of the bills in California.
California, Arizona, they wanna come up with another one,
because they were pressured into it, they were denying it.
So now they can say, well, actually, we're doing something,
we're cataloging all the past research.
They're not doing new research.
No, they're doing a few forums around the country,
one of them in Los Angeles, New Orleans,
and a final one in Washington, D.C.,
where they're allowing all sorts of public input.
A couple of the researchers, actually,
are from Oregon Health Sciences University.
There are only five researchers involved on the project,
and two of them are from right here in Portland,
at the Oregon Health Sciences University.
But our initiative is what we hope is going to
allow patients to legally get medical marijuana
through pharmacies,
and I think that's a big breakthrough for them.
Yeah, and it is going to be a big breakthrough
for the patients.
So many people,
this idea that they can just go to the local pharmacy
and get it with their prescription is so much better
than I stated earlier,
than trying to find some local dealer that has some,
and hoping that it's good, clean stuff,
because you never know what's going on.
No pesticides, or who knows what.
Who knows what they spray on the stuff
to make it seem better.
But just that simple, in their mind,
they know that it's safe.
I mean, it's just so much better.
It's just a travesty that we don't allow this medicine.
I mean, why should a government tell you what is medicine,
what isn't medicine?
We're all adults enough to make up our own minds.
So get our petition.
That's the solution that we keep working at here,
and we urge you to call us and get these things
at 235-4606.
I hate to be redundant, but we do need your help.
Without your help, we might not make it.
We need everyone's help that possibly can.
And so give us a call at 235-4606,
and get a petition.
Get some of these, and help us get some signatures.
Even if it's just your own,
we'll be happy to send you one if you just want one.
And help us put this on the ballot.
Yeah, because I'm sure most of you out there watching this
have known of somebody personally who has been helped
by medical cannabis.
You know, it's some way or somebody with multiple sclerosis
or chemotherapy or, you know, wasting syndrome.
I mean, you know it.
Or just, you know, horrible pains
from all the chemical exposures.
People, that's a new one coming up
with these chemical toxic exposures people have
that cannabis helps to relieve
that total all over body pain.
Morning sickness.
Yeah.
And menstrual cramps.
Cannabis was actually prescribed back to Queen Victoria
over 100 years ago for menstrual cramps,
and was used for that for many, many years.
So right now, marijuana isn't allowed
for morning sickness and menstrual cramps.
And in the areas where it has been studied
in conjunction with pregnancy and women's health issues,
they found that it has increased the birth weight of babies
and had no detrimental effects
upon women's reproductive systems.
No, not at all.
I mean, they did an extensive study down in Jamaica
on that and no problems at all.
And actually the mothers that smoked high amounts of cannabis
in Jamaica had healthier babies,
higher birth weights, less problems.
So it's just, we know it, we know it works.
I mean, earlier this century, you know,
cannabis tinctures were the rage, you know,
because people knew it worked so well.
But so we've told you the truth, hopefully,
about medical cannabis, and we hope you enjoyed this.
Yeah, we urge you to, one last time,
give us a call and get this petition.
Let's get some research on this issue.
Let our university scientists study marijuana
and find out the truth about its links
to women health issues.
Call us at 235-4606.
Thanks for watching another exciting edition
of Cannabis Common Sense.
That's right, let's end the prohibition.
Let's let truth get out there.
Thanks.
Thanks and good night.
