Okay, I'm a hog farmer and years and years of driving around these crazy
painted buses and everybody says, well you got to go over to that holler, old
Zeke knows where it's at. We drive over there and we ask Zeke where it's at and
we get sent somewhere driving around asking people where it's at. And this
song is like if you take an arc of lights and you put if you put a match
between two mirrors as I said to the mirror the other morning it's all done
with people. If you stick a match between two mirrors you get an arc of lights
that stretches to infinity and this song is that arc of lights.
And wouldn't it be neat if the people that you meet had shoes upon their feet and
something to eat and wouldn't it be fine now if all humankind had shelter. Basic
human needs, basic human deeds, doing what comes naturally down in the garden
where no one is apart, deep down in the garden, the garden of your heart.
Now that's the chorus, sing it with me. Basic human needs, only a few of us so we
got to do it with gusto. Basic human needs, basic human deeds, basic human deeds, doing what comes naturally
doing what comes naturally down in the garden, down in the garden where no one is apart, deep down in the garden, deep down in the garden, the garden of your heart, the garden of your heart.
And wouldn't it be grand if we all let a hand so each one could stand on a free
piece of land and wouldn't it be thrilling if folks stopped their killing
and started in tilling the land till they have basic human needs. Basic human needs, basic human deeds, doing what comes naturally down, down in the garden where no one, where no one is apart, deep down, deep down in the garden, the garden of your heart.
Deep down in the garden, you know where, the garden of your heart. Here's the bridge. Not just churches, not just steeples, give me peoples, help in people, help yourself and work out till the stars begin to shout.
Thank God for something to do. Basic human needs, basic human needs, basic human deeds, doing what comes naturally down, down in the garden where no one is apart, deep down, deep down in the garden, the garden of your heart.
The garden, the garden of your heart.
Last verse.
And wouldn't it be daring if folks started sharing instead of comparing what each other was wearing and wouldn't it be swell if people didn't sell their mother earth basic human needs.
Last time, with gusto.
The garden of your heart.
Let's legalize it.
Thank you.
