I want to tell you all a little bit about a plant I know that can save the world.
It grows long and tall and has flowers that can make your mind swirl.
It's a funky plant with a fiber that is resistant to rain and mold.
It's the strongest plant fiber known to man, the best rope you'll ever hold.
Well the pioneers covered up the wagon trains with a canvas made of hemp.
And Washington and Jefferson grew it on their farms, said to make for most of it.
The first stars and strikes were sewn on hemp, the first constitution too.
This is around the world for food, fiber, oil, medicine and fuel.
And if we press the seeds we won't have no need for any other oil.
We can make paints and inks or run our car, we'll go back next season it'll fix the soil.
The most nutritious seed we can put in our mouth with omega 6 and 3.
We can feed the world with the tree of life and live sustainably.
But if we cut down all the trees, we won't have nowhere to breathe.
We can grow fields of hemp instead, we can make our paper fill the house plummet.
It's the best plant growing wild and free, living the way that we ought to be.
You're gonna leave my children a better world than my ancestors left me.
Marijuana plant, they often call it dope, can also be made into oil or rope.
Some people say you smoke it and you feel fantastic, but from hemp you can make an alternative to plastic.
Made from plants not petroleum you see, so it won't still be around in 4,003.
It can biodegrade which means there'll be less pollution, just another reason for a hemp revolution.
Well the flowers of the female hemp plant make the best medicines on earth.
Helps cancer and AIDS patients eat their food, helps those with depression overcome the blues.
Glaucoma, epilepsy, nausea, insomnia, stress, cirrhosis, psychosis, pain, PMS.
All the studies have been done and all the doctors agree, but they can't make money off this plant you see.
Because it's free, it grows from a seed wild and free like we ought to be.
You know the future is grown in our own backyards.
And if we cut down all the trees, we won't have nowhere to be.
But what fields of hemp instead, we can make our pay for building a house for our ladies.
If we got this plant growing wild and free, living the way that we ought to be.
Gonna leave my children a better world than my ancestors left for me.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh.
In the mid 1930's it was the billion dollar crop.
With the invention of the quarter cutter they could produce it nonstop.
But then the smear campaign with Mexicans to blame.
Thought of making people think and to make your brain go wild.
rain go pop, yeah, since then it's never stopped
It ain't like getting high off a paint and crack rock
Time to bring it back to nature, time to bring back some life
Let the farmers do their job, stop giving up strife
Renewable resources, life-giving forces
Panels for your cars and saddles for your horses
DuPont, Monsanto, making the wrong choices
Suicide genes extinguishing our voices
Cutting down the trees, polluting the seven seas
Leaving the fate of the planet to the corporate entities
Corrupt politics, warfare, disease
Now it's time to make a change, it's time to plant seeds
Feathers show nutrition, eat the oil, the seeds
It gives you all the protein you will ever need
You can make it in a sandwich with jelly or jam
Or make it in a soap or a lotion for your hands
You can make it into fuel, put it right in our cars
Then we won't need the oil and won't have to start war
You can make it into paper, write as much as you please
Cause it grows like a weed and we won't have to cut trees
So put your faith in hemp, such a versatile plant
And don't let the government tell us we can't
Cause hemp can help us all in so many ways
And it doesn't mean that we will all be living in a daze
Versatility, sustainability, look at history
It ain't no mystery, hemp for victory
If we cut down all the trees, we won't have nowhere to be
For kids to come and sit, we can make our bed
Build a house from it, it's the way God's planned
Growing wild and free, living the way that we ought to be
Gonna leave my children a better world than my ancestors left for me
La la la la la la la la la la
Oh oh oh
