I'm not one for trying to find new ways to do something that has already been done.
And what what I mean by that, we were here once before with alcohol prohibition.
And for instance, The Last Call, a book by Daniel Cramp, you know, in reading that and looking at
how alcohol prohibition came to an end and
and the groups that were involved and how they went about doing it, you know,
the mothers that came forward, you know, protecting their children. We have a similar thing today.
There are many, many, many, many different groups, many different perspectives,
many different reasons for being here at the table to end prohibition of marijuana.
And we have to ensure that we are working well together and well-oiled machine because a lot
has to be done. A lot has to be done politically. At the end of the day, what we want to do
is to remove marijuana from a Schedule 1 category and, in my opinion, remove it from the scheduling
in my opinion, remove it from the scheduling system altogether.
And, you know, so how does that happen? You know, I'm not going to,
you know, reiterate what Dominic already talked about, but how does that happen? How do we do
that? Right. We have two states right now, right here in Washington and Colorado, who have begun
to move. There are 48 other states that are going to move in a similar direction. The question is,
how will they do it and how quickly will they do it? One of the things that I think is important,
as many of us here are from other parts of the country, is that we have to connect the dots. We
have to go back to our states. We have to talk about this, yes, at the kitchen tables and,
in our own individual circles, but we have to make those connections to the people who would
be responsible in our home states for doing what's happening here. The city attorneys, for instance,
and I'm from Merlin in Baltimore. I want to give some examples here in Baltimore,
where the city attorney is Mr. Bernstein. You know, I know Mr. Bernstein and I know Pete Holmes
here. It's my responsibility to connect those two people so that they can begin a dialogue,
so that Mr. Bernstein can learn from Pete Holmes as to what's happening in Seattle.
What differences are being made? How's that occurring? Who needs to be involved? City
council members, connecting those folks as well. Doctors from Merlin need to be speaking with
doctors here in Washington. The liquor control board folks need to be communicating from Merlin
to Washington state and Colorado. You know, however it's being done. And I think that's
an important piece of it because I know people are in other states, just people who have the
power to make things happen and they're wondering, they're wondering, so what's going on out there
in Washington state? And they're developing their own perspectives about what is happening
in Washington state and Colorado. We can't allow them to do that. We can't allow them to
create myths and rumors and innuendo and monsters. We need to show them what's happening here
and that the sky is not falling in Washington state. You know, so those are just some examples.
Currently we have momentum in what's occurring with marijuana policy reform in this country
and we cannot afford to lose it. The only way that we can lose it, in my opinion, is if we don't work
together as a team in making this happen. And I'm going to continue to say this every time I have an
opportunity because in the past I've seen infighting among all of us that want to legalize
marijuana, that want to remove it from the scheduling system. And we have to get beyond
our own individual differences. We have to leave that baggage outside. You can pick it up
when you leave, when we're all done, when we end prohibition of marijuana. You can pick it up
and carry it around again if you want. But for this moment, for this effort here,
you've got to leave it outside. You've got to do that.
So I'll end with this. You know, the moms need to support the cops that want to get this done.
And there are a lot of cops that want to get it done, believe it or not. And they're all not
members of LEAD. You know, the cops need to support those who just want the right to enjoy
cannabis. Those who just want to enjoy cannabis need to support those who come to here, to this
place from a medical perspective, those who come to this place from a religious perspective.
And in many different places we come from, we have to support each other,
keep the momentum going and share what's happening here in Washington and Colorado,
not just with other states in the union, but we're already beginning to see what's happening
outside of this country in other countries, like in Central America, with Uruguay.
The move that you're seeing in Uruguay is because of what happened here. Here.
That's my two cents. Thanks.
