Mr. Dan Rush of the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union.
Thank you brother Dan. Thank you Paul. I love you brother. Anybody here got a joint?
Everybody here having a good time? How about Hemp Stock?
So you know if they see me on stage you know it's time to talk about politics because that's what we
do besides creating good jobs and working conditions for working people and most especially
our members and I'm very proud to be the director of the National Medical Cannabis and Hemp Division
of the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union and before I did that
what I did in UFCW was run statewide ballots like Measure 80. Anybody here supporting Measure 80?
I can't hear you. Is anybody? Yeah. We're supporting Measure 80 and the reason we're supporting
Measure 80 is it because it's because it will create jobs. Anybody here want a union job with
health insurance and pension? Okay so that's what we're going to do in this industry and right now
we're working in the medical cannabis and hemp industry but also right now we're here talking
about legalization, Measure 80, Initiative 502 and Measure 64 in Colorado. Does everybody know
about Measure 64 and 502? So one of the things that we're doing is we've created a slogan that
we're using in the union and we're going around the country talking about and that is fix it and
pass it. Does everybody know what that means? What that means is that we can't lose any more statewide
ballots in the United States and when people work as hard as as Paul and Casper and the rest of the
folks here that have helped put this uh put these uh events together we have to step up and we have
to support them in our industry. Some every initiative has something that people don't like
about it and uh and the thing to do is when you find an initiative that's about cannabis if there's
something about it you don't like remember it costs five million dollars to ten million dollars
to pass something on the ballot but it only costs five hundred thousand dollars to fix it and that's
what we're telling folks pass it and then fix it don't fight it we have been our own worst enemies
in cannabis we've been our own worst enemies in social justice we keep finding one sentence in
300 that we don't like well you know what nothing is perfect and nothing will ever be perfect right
now is crucial in politics for cannabis in the United States we need to pass Measure 80 we need
to pass Measure 502 we need to pass Amendment 64 and we need to get together and start doing this
together. Thank you very much and let's restore hemp. Thank you. Have a good hemp fest.
