You're doing radio... I'm on a radio station, Radio Free Amsterdam dot com. That's what I do now. That's my passion.
How much time do you spend over there in the Netherlands?
As much as I can get away with. I don't know, it varies. I don't have any work there, so I have to go other places to work.
But then I go back there to spend the money.
I see. So in Michigan, what's the scene like there now these days?
There's the dispensaries opening up?
No, they shut down.
Shut them down?
The Attorney General of the state of Michigan, William Shuet, General Shuet, was also the guy who before he was elected Attorney General as a Republican, under the governor we have.
Well, you can pretty much imagine what a state governed by a tough nerd is going to be like. It's not going to be nothing nice.
And this guy Shuet...
He's been taking over the local city governments.
Well, that's part of their plan, yeah. Especially those operated by Negroes.
They think the white people know how to do this better because they did so well with our economy.
So they like to go ahead and take over the city under this thing called emergency manager system.
And that allows them to void all of their union contracts, declare bankruptcy, get rid of the pensions of people who had spent all their lives working for these cities, and tell them what to do for the future.
So they just diverted this in Detroit, but they have an emergency financial board that's going to run the city, which the city had to agree to accept.
The only alternative was to accept an emergency manager system.
So it's very gruesome. Cities like Detroit and Flint, my hometown, are ruined beyond repair economically.
They've been disinvesting in them for about 40 years.
They've finally reached the fairly well-loved suburban ring of white people that surrounds Detroit a couple years ago.
And that's when you start hearing about Detroit.
But in the city of Detroit, the real city of Detroit, they did away with the jobs about 40 years ago.
You've got at least two generations, maybe you could call it three generations of people who have never had a job.
They don't know what a job is. They don't know anyone who's had a job.
No one in their family has had a job.
So it's pretty desperate. It's the worst possible sort of situation as far as I'm concerned.
And the sick part of it is this is the vanguard of what they're holding up as a model for the rest of the country.
Yeah, and Shewitt's supposed to be the Republican guru, so to speak.
Well, he, I started out to say that Shewitt led the opposition to the medical marijuana initiative in 2008.
And he lost on about a two to one basis.
But then he was elected in 2010 as part of the Republican backlash to the president's administration.
So now he uses the Attorney General's office as his focal point for trying to oppose the medical marijuana initiative that was passed.
He does things like hold seminars for local law enforcement and prosecutors offices around the state of Michigan,
which then is followed by busts of the dispensers. Like in Traverse City, they had one of his little, you know,
he tries to explain to the local and regional law enforcement people how they can circumvent the Medical Marijuana Act
and still bust people and prevent them from having places where people can get their medicine and what have you.
See, Michigan, the marijuana law, the medical marijuana law, recognizes only one sort of relationship,
and that is between a patient, a registered patient, and a registered caregiver who can grow for five patients.
There's no provision in the initiative law that was passed for dispensaries or any sort of transfer outside of this model.
Everything that's not caretaker to patient relation is regarded as not acceptable by the state authorities.
So it's kind of gruesome, you know, they were building a great industry throughout the state with dispensaries,
and then as you know they just started raiding them and shoving them down and persecuting people.
Like my friend Adam Brook, who organized the Hash Bash for about 20 years.
They raided him for marijuana and he had some illegal guns in his house and now he's in prison for two years.
In Michigan State Prison?
In Michigan, yeah.
So that's one of the side effects of this kind of stuff, that either they shut him down or they, you know,
he was a patient and he was registered and all his marijuana issues were in order,
but for some reason he was a gun nut in the house.
I feel terrible for him.
Yeah, yeah, that's true.
But on the other hand, I have no guns.
I don't even have guns.
Me neither. I don't believe in them myself.
So I know there's an initiative out there right now, it doesn't look like it's going to make the ballot,
but Matt Abel is pushing it.
Matt's doing a good job, but yeah, it's just the people, they've had a group that's mapped every Monday.
I met over at their office once about, I don't know, four months ago.
Well they've been doing that every week for months.
And the initiative came out of that, but they don't have the support of the people with the big money
who help support the medical marijuana initiative, for example.
And then there's some sort of, I don't know, the dispensary people have their own organization
and they're kind of trying to make a deal with the state legislature on the side,
and they aren't really supporting the initiative.
I don't know, I pray for the best. I've been waiting for this for a long time.
I started my crusade, as they might say, against the marijuana laws in January of 1965.
How'd you start it?
I put out a flyer.
And that was in Michigan?
Yes sir. I received in the mail from New York City a flyer that said,
New York, Lamar, legalize marijuana.
That's Allen Ginsberg's group.
Allen Ginsberg and Ed Sanders.
Yeah.
I got this in the mail one day and I said, wow, that's a great idea.
I wish I had one of these in Detroit.
So I went to our manual graph machine and picked up a stencil and ran off the thing and sent it out
and said the first meeting is such and such.
We're going to legalize marijuana in Michigan.
Lamar was a very good...
That was a long time ago.
Yeah.
That's illegal.
I know. Well, we're trying to legalize it.
I've got everything to be done with by 1977.
Sure.
That was my initial outlook.
That's what I thought too back in the late 70s.
Jesus Christ. What's wrong with these people?
It's all about money, power, and economic and political control.
And yeah, they've got this police state they've built up on our backs.
It's a vast, huge, almost indescribably large police state apparatus.
Yeah.
When you count... Well, what's the federal government spending a year now?
$18 billion on the war on drugs?
Yeah, I think at least.
And growing.
And that doesn't count the states, you see.
Which finance their storm trooper activities by seizing the assets and the products of marijuana banks and helicopters.
It's hard to believe.
They got it all.
Yeah, and then you go beyond the police and there's the courts and the drug courts and the extra prosecutors,
all the extra coppers and all the narcotics bureaus.
Then you got the probation officers, the prison industry, the parole industry, and my favorite, the drug treatment industry.
Which is the most asinine and vicious of the whole thing.
My daughter once had this pillow by the side of the road and had a joint.
She got busted.
So she had to go to rehabilitation for being a marijuana smoker.
Yeah, like she was...
What could you possibly do to combat, you know, what's wrong with that?
And the whole thing is just all based on nothing.
It's all like Jack Harris said, they don't have no clothes on.
There's no... There's nothing wrong with... Why am I talking to you?
I mean, there's nothing wrong with marijuana.
I think it's a great gift.
When I started in Michigan, it was a narcotic.
Now you got that law overturned though, right?
Your case ended up in having that declared unconstitutional.
I had to spend three years in prison to do that without an appeal bond.
Right, for only two joints.
Yeah.
What happened after they declared the Michigan medical...
I mean, the Michigan marijuana law unconstitutional?
Did the legislature go right into session to recreate the laws?
The legislature had already dealt with this issue.
I see.
And they passed a new law reclassifying marijuana as a controlled substance,
whatever that is.
At least that was more like a spitball.
But they redefined it.
The important part was they changed the entire system of penalties.
So instead of 20 to life for giving away or selling marijuana, you could...
So the legislature passed this law on December 9th of 1971.
But the stipulation was that it would go into effect on April 1st, 1972.
Well, my case was decided by the Michigan Supreme Court.
My case now is linked to another case of a guy who was convicted of sales.
I was only convicted of possession.
So our attorneys linked these two cases together.
We both won, so they threw out the whole marijuana...
the crime, the penalties, people were released and everything.
We are working on an initiative here in Oregon.
That was on March 9th or March 12th, I guess.
And the new law was going into effect on April 1st.
Yeah, so for three weeks we had a situation in Michigan where there were no marijuana laws.
Did you have a little taste of freedom?
Yeah, it was great.
And that was right when you got out, too.
Well, yeah, three months.
So we would have evapotranspirant joints on stage and stuff like that.
We took full advantage of this small window.
And then when April 1st came in, April Fool's Day, that's when we had the first hash bash.
That's where the first hash bash started.
And that's the first to thumb our noses at these people and say,
you might put this law into effect, but we aren't going to pay any more attention to this one
than we did to the much more severe one.
I feel pardon the expression.
So that's why I like about the hash bash, because they have it every year.
They just had the 46th one, I think.
Yeah.
The first 46th.
It's been a long time.
A long time, every year.
Yeah, that's a good thing.
That started right around your case.
You know, we're working on an initiative here in Oregon to completely legalize it.
Much like Matt Abel's initiative.
And we're at about we only need 87,000 signatures to qualify.
We just tossed 70,000.
So we've got 70,000 we have until July 6th.
Now, this is an excerpt.
Yeah, well, you've got 10 million people where Oregon only has 3 million.
But this is text from our initiative.
And this is one of the lines.
This is the whole thing.
It says, Where is the people find that despite misinformation concocted to justify campus prohibition,
the courts of Alaska, Hawaii, and guess who, Michigan,
have noted presidential commission findings that characterize campus.
That's what I call a comparatively harmless euphoria.
Yeah, exactly.
It's not even a drug.
It's a weed.
It's a beneficial thing.
And there's the medical part of it.
Yeah, and the fiber part.
Which I happen to agree with Dennis Perone.
All use is medical.
All marijuana use is medicinal in America for sure.
Because we're up against a very sickening social system here.
And I know if I couldn't get high every day, I would just dash my head against the wall.
So you have to find a way to elevate above it.
Figure out the way to get through it, you know.
That's what I look at it anyway.
So you play music.
That's where I started.
You were an MC5.
Did you just play a gig, some music here tonight?
Yeah, I just sat in with my friend Reggie Houston.
And a great pianist.
Janice?
Janice Scroggins.
Janice Scroggins.
Oh, they were great.
So last night Reggie played with me.
We played at the Star Theater.
And I've known Reggie when we both lived in New Orleans.
As he says, decades.
We finally had a chance to play.
I'm a poet, so I set my poems to music.
I seek high-level musicians like Lonnie D. Wages, who backed me up two nights before that.
All right.
I can't afford to carry my musicians around with me.
It gives me the opportunity to collaborate with lots of different people.
So you're going to play some gigs.
You're going out to Astoria and then up to Seattle?
Correct.
We're playing something at Astoria Friday.
I think we're playing two gigs Friday.
I don't know who I'm going to be playing with there, but I'm sure we'll be fine.
You'll find somebody.
Yeah, I hope.
Yeah.
So after you're done here next week, are you going back to Michigan or back to Amsterdam?
I'm going back to Detroit just for a week for my daughters.
I'll be in Detroit on Monday and Tuesday, the 30th and 1st.
I'll get in the evening on the 30th.
I'll be there seeing patients at our THCF Medical Clinic.
Getting more patients.
It's right over at Southfield.
We opened in Michigan on the day the law went into effect, December 8, 2008.
So we got a head start on all the other clinics.
We got a big jump start.
We got some busy clinics set up for Monday and Tuesday right off of Northwest Highway and 12 Mile.
Oh, very good.
So is there anything you would want to tell people today in terms of reforming marijuana laws?
What would you tell activists today?
I agree.
I like Matt Abel's language, the idea of ending marijuana prohibition.
I think what they did with the initiative was to mandate, if passed, the removal of marijuana from any of the statutes of the state of Michigan.
Where it's proscribing different things, it would not be able to proscribe marijuana use.
Imagine if that would open the door for the ban on marijuana culture.
Yeah, I think so too.
I would like to see it.
That's what we're trying to do here in Oregon.
We're putting it on the ballot.
Oregon's been in the vanguard for a long time.
Yeah.
I saw Alaska.
I remember when Alaska was legal in Alaska.
Yeah, under the Reagan.
Then under Ronnie Reagan.
Ronnie Reagan, they got the law, the teachers put out an initiative to recriminalize it.
The teachers?
Then the courts threw it out, yeah.
Well, under Bill Bennett, the first drug czar, they pushed that through.
Drug czar, yeah.
I didn't think we were supposed to have czars in this country.
Czars are like autocratic rulers despotic.
It's not like Soviet Russia either.
When they collapsed, America ate the heart of the enemy.
Now they've become just like, they replaced it.
They don't have an American heart anymore, I don't think.
I think this is just the coldest, ugliest, most non-caring society,
way beyond any of my wildest imaginings I could be here.
I mean, all my life I've never really been able to subscribe to the social system that dominates here,
but man, since Ronald Reagan, it's just like watching yourself swirled on the toilet like a piece of wood.
I think, you know, the CIA, there was a big military coup in this country back on November 22nd, 1963.
Yeah.
Most people don't realize it yet.
Well, it was hardened when the CIA director took over the government personally.
In January of 1981, he was the vice president of Ronald Reagan.
Yeah.
He was involved in the assassination.
I never saw too much air between Bill Clinton and the CIA.
They seemed to be pretty close.
And my president now seems to be very close with the CIA.
Bad choice.
The CIA were the people that didn't happen to see the collapse of the Soviet Union coming,
although they'd been watching it through a microscope for 50 years.
Not much intelligence there.
Yeah, not much intelligence there.
The ones that had the weapons of mass destruction.
I used to go to Iraq for 10 years, tried to bomb them.
They were sure that they had a weapon of mass destruction because they sold it to them.
They didn't believe that they had dismantled them when they were so close to it.
Evidently, they did.
Otherwise, they would have found them.
Well, I appreciate you coming in and talking to us today.
Oh, I'm glad I had a chance.
I've been wanting to do this for a year.
When you first invited me, the idea of flying from Detroit to Portland, Oregon to do a TV show,
I don't even watch TV.
It just had no attraction for me whatsoever.
But then when I ended up coming out again, the fall show, so it worked out.
Great.
Thank you.
I'm glad it did.
Thank you.
Okay, real pleasure, Travis.
Keep up the good work.
I will.
Like I said, we're just—
I feel assured of that.
Yeah, we're not going to give up.
No.
