What kind of response did you get when you went public? Did you get harassed? Did the police department come down on you?
It was amazing. The way I describe it and have described it for many years is it rained marijuana on our house.
Wow.
The people, the article that I read about finding it on the doorstep and I laughed was totally true.
We found it in brown paper bags on our doorstep. We got it through the mail, postage paid.
We also got it in the mailbox. We live in a rural area and we have a rural mailbox.
Found it in the mailbox, found it on the back porch and had many people deliver it to us.
Wow. Okay, and we'll be right back after this.
We're talking with May Nutt today. Now what I understand is that you began a crusade in your state to re-legalize hemp for medical purposes
that brought forth on October 10, 1979 a history making policy within your state. Isn't that correct?
That's true. That's true.
Could you share that?
When we decided to go public, we decided that we needed to be legal.
And so we contacted the legislature to see if there was a possibility that Michigan could do this
and found that someone else had been there before us and it was in the process.
So we joined the process. Keith went with us in early October and then again late in October he was very ill and we went without him.
And it went 100 to nothing in the Senate and I've forgotten what the count was in the House.
But yes indeed it did go.
Now does that mean that in Michigan people can start using it for medical purposes?
No, it doesn't mean that.
One, once the bill is passed then it has to be signed.
And it was signed on October 22, 1979 by the Lieutenant Governor of the state of Michigan and that was the day our son died.
So, I'm getting breath.
He never received legal marijuana.
And then after that, it was over a year before the state received the marijuana.
The federal government stands in your way and they're not cooperative.
But Michigan and 33 other states did pass marijuana laws and indeed the area we live in received the marijuana.
In fact, I received it personally from the state.
And the doctor that took care of Keith had encouraged me to work on the legality of it.
And he got a license.
And as time went on, he said to me, I can't do this anymore.
And I was hurt.
Now from what I understand too, Anani was the government slow in getting the hemp marijuana into the state.
But during this time while it was coming in, you were also getting hemp to other patients and other people.
Not after it got legal.
Not after it got legal. Before it got legal.
When Keith died, we had a great deal of marijuana.
And I knew what it would do and I would not throw it away.
And I did not play games about it.
And yes, then the doctor said to me, he would send me patients.
I used to call them our patients.
And say, you know, if someone was saying, doctor, I'm going to quit.
You know, dying can't be worse.
And he would send them to me.
Well, now didn't you feel like you were breaking a law?
Now, I understand that people of your generation have an ingrained thought when it comes to hemp, to marijuana.
Brainwashing, it's called.
That because it's illegal, it shouldn't even be discussed, let alone considered.
Okay, I'm in a different category.
Yes, it's illegal.
And I frowned on my children using it.
But we're talking about life and death.
We're talking about people.
It's not even a quality of life which is important.
But it's life and death.
And people, there are many people who will die.
And I know of several who have survived because they were able to use marijuana.
A dad told me just last year, this year, that his son had cancer.
And he refused to take the treatment.
And so one of his buddies got him stoned so he was so happy he really didn't care what he was doing.
Unaware that it could help the nausea.
And so he continued his treatment.
And the young man is alive and well today.
Now, you shared with me that there was a vet, a Vietnam vet, who was paralyzed.
I talked to him this year.
And could you tell that?
Okay, he's a representative of disabled veterans in southern Illinois.
And he told me he had several vertebrae damaged during the war.
And he did some rehab in a hospital in Colorado.
Before he left, his physician took him aside and said,
I do not want you to take the drugs that the Veterans Organization or the hospital is going to prescribe for you.
He said, I want you to use marijuana, smoke it.
And the young man, he said he got to the, he was incontinent with his bladder and his bowels and was paralyzed.
He said in five years he got so he could walk five miles.
He could also take a few steps without a walker.
And that his incontinence was under control.
I understand that AIDS sufferers, people who are dealing with that disease, can find relief with help.
Absolutely.
There's an organization called MARS, Marijuana AIDS Research Service.
And it's to help them apply for legal marijuana.
It's not going, well, it's going better than others have, but it's very slow.
So many of them, and the government is saying they don't have the resources.
And you commented that people with epilepsy.
Epilepsy.
I did a national television thing a few months ago.
And I received many, many phone calls from people with various illnesses.
And one of my recent ones was a young woman with epilepsy.
And she was from New York State, couldn't drive because of the seizures.
And had tried the prescribed drugs.
And eventually somehow someone talked her into smoking marijuana.
And she was seizure free for two and a half years.
And if I remember right, she said two years in her state and she could get her driver's license back.
So she was back driving.
Now, when this is used for medicinal purposes, people think that you should, is that just smoking it?
You just go into the hospital room and say, okay, doctor, I want to join her too.
And you have your friends bringing it in off the street and fire it up.
Is that the only way that it can be used?
Is that the best way?
It's the fastest way.
But for someone, a cancer patient, I've talked to many.
And they have cancer because they smoke tobacco.
And they simply cannot tolerate any other smoke in their lungs.
So we can make brownies.
We can make suppositories by making the butter and putting them in a capsule.
And the nurses told me for children, poke holes in the capsule so that you don't have to wait quite so long for the capsule to dissolve before the ingredients get in the bloodstream.
And also tea.
And I'm thinking that tea, for people my age, we could drink an herbal tea without a blink of an eye.
And I was told this summer by a man who was dying of cancer that the pain, the nausea, and the appetite.
And that the tea got into his system in like five minutes.
Now some of the other things, the brownies and the suppositories.
Of course, the suppositories are wonderful because you don't throw them back up again.
That's true.
And the digested foods, brownies and such.
Now you said children.
Now realizing that hemp is an illegal substance for Americans to use, it's kind of unusual to hear someone encourage that we give this to children.
If you have a child dying and they are giving you no hope whatsoever, and this is hope, I have no problem with that at all.
Do you know of any children that have benefited from this?
I know of one child, to my knowledge, and this was about ten years ago.
And the child was so emaciated and there was simply no other place in his body to poke a needle.
And they had to stop treatment.
And to stimulate his appetite, they made him brownies and teas.
And he was able to go back and continue his treatment.
And to the best of my knowledge, the child is alive and well today.
Wow. Very interesting.
We'll be right back after this.
We thought we were.
I distributed what we had, and then when it became legal, I no longer, well I didn't have any more and I didn't try to get any more, but it was legal.
And so I still worked with the doctor, but I didn't work directly with patients using the marijuana.
But eventually he stopped using it, and I was angry and hurt.
And he said to me, May, I cannot spend more time doing paperwork than I do taking care of patients, and I have to discontinue using it.
And we had 34 states where it was legal, and now every doctor in every state, not all of them received it.
But the bills are dormant because the federal government made it so difficult and horrendous for the doctors to use it.
What I understand, people who have glaucoma and are applying for the hemp for their medical purposes, from what I understand, the paperwork takes anywhere from a year to two years.
Yeah, it's horrendous.
And the Mars Project is attempting to, they have cut it down until a doctor can do it in about 15 minutes.
Now, from what I understand, you also testified before the DEA in 1988.
I did, indeed.
Now, what came from that, and who did you speak with when you were there?
I testified in front of a Judge Francis Young, a very intelligent man.
And the feeling of the people that I was working with, normal, and that he was going to brush it off.
We were going to finish our testimony, and 15 minutes later he was going to say, forget it.
He didn't do that.
He agonized over this for a long time.
And his decision, he was only to make a recommendation to the head of DEA.
He couldn't make the decision.
And he recommended wholeheartedly, and he had heard people all over the United States from all different kinds of illnesses, and said, in effect, for God's sakes, help these people.
And what kind of response did he receive?
The head of DEA, in effect, said, drop dead.
Why do you think that is?
Because they're stupid.
Okay. Now, I, we only have a couple of minutes left, and I was wondering, you commented that people of an older generation than what I am have a problem at times being able to rethink, restructure their thinking on this plant.
What do you have to say to that?
Okay. We were told, and I came from an era that if somebody, if my government told me, go out and stand in the middle of the traffic, I'd probably do it, because they would never tell me anything that was harmful.
And it has taken me a long time to realize this isn't, this is no longer true.
Maybe it never was, but I thought it was.
And so, therefore, it's difficult.
You, you, you just, it's like a religion.
You may go away from the religion that you were brought up as a child, but it's always there.
And I'm not sure that I would ever be able to smoke a marijuana cigarette.
Okay. Now, you've talked about Mars, and there's probably a variety of people who are watching this show who'd like to have the chance to find out more about your organization, or the organization, Mars.
It's, it's...
Address and phone number, please.
I don't have it.
All right.
It's through ACT, A-C-T, Alliance for Cannabis Therapeutics, and they're based here in Washington, D.C.
I do not have an address or telephone number, but I'm sure that through normal, High Times has an ad in it.
There are many places that they can contact them.
Any final comment to our audience?
Oh, go with your gut feeling.
If you think you're right, go for it.
Thank you very much.
It has really been a unique learning experience having May on our show.
And I hope that the information that she brought forth is something that you can digest and share with people around you and you grow from.
There are a lot of people out there who are suffering medically and need the benefits of the medicines that are derived from, that derive from the hemp plant.
We encourage you to write your congressman.
We encourage you to write your senators.
And we encourage you to become more vocal in your community to bring this message forward.
Thank you very much for tuning in.
We look forward to seeing you the next time.
Thank you very much, May.
I'd like to have you back on the show.
Thank you.
I'd love to come back.
