Hi everybody. I'm glad to be here today. I've been an activist, like you said, a
lot of people might know me from the cafe. I was there from most of the time
it had a location, hopefully it'll have a location sometime again,
but a lot more people know me from Facebook where I started basically as
soon as I got on Facebook back in 2008 was very about the same time I got
hooked up with Oregon Normal through going to the meetings where we gave
away clones and medicine to people who couldn't afford to buy it or you know
have their own growers and stuff. So I got very involved with that and very
happy for the chance to talk here today. But well I think it's important not only
to talk to your legislatures but also to talk just to your family and your
friends who are not you know out here today. You know preaching to the choir
is a wonderful thing to do and you'll do it you know a lot if you get the chance
to speak to people a lot most of the people you talk to will be people who
agree with you. But there's a lot of people out there who will listen to
you. And I think that's the reason as we can see passing the measure 91 here at 56% was a big
victory for you know our movement and the world and especially when several
months before the year before we were told by the Marijuana Policy Project
that we shouldn't seek to legalize in 2014 because it was an off-year election
and people wouldn't come out and things wouldn't happen because of experience
they had in the past with gay marriage and which is a great issue and I'm glad
to see that moving forward and it's another issue that has unstoppable
momentum. But when you look at consistent polling across the country which puts
support for medical marijuana at 80% and higher among the general population it's
time for the politicians to just get with the program and the way to make
that happen again is to contact your legislatures, write letters, emails. I got
this SB 844 which Aaron was talking about a minute ago where they're making
changes to the medical program. I've emailed back and forth with Peter Buckley
and some of the suggestions that I made actually made it into the latest
amendments structure so they listen they're trying to do things right and
they know that there's a lot at stake and they're listening and it's very good
to see that happening here and to provide an example for the people who
will come after us and because in 2016 we'll probably see legalization
initiatives in California, we'll get the whole West Coast legal for adults.
It'll be great and also and Nevada possibly Massachusetts, Rhode Island and
Maine are talking about doing it through the legislature. Ohio supposedly has half
the signatures they need to get it on the ballot for 2015. Passing legalization
in Ohio in an odd year would be almost unthinkable but it may happen. But while
all this good stuff is happening and we're giving a good example, people are
still being executed around the world for cannabis trafficking crimes. At last
weekend in Indonesia one of the nine people who were put in front of a
firing squad was a cannabis trafficker and he was killed for it and then every
year Indonesia, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, a couple other different countries there's
about nine around the world that still execute people for drug crimes and the
drug war just has to end. That's you know the the violence we saw last week
in Maryland around the Freddie Gray killing is you know made possible by the
no-knock raids and other exorbitant measures that have been just become
everyday events for the police to put on. There have been SWAT raids and no-knock
raids and people just shouldn't be dying for this plant that can save so many
people and which we're finding out now on the hemp side of things we can make
batteries for a small fraction of the cost, graphene level batteries that will
hold a tremendous charge for a tremendous amount of time at a much much
cheaper cost than it would to make it from the scientifically otherwise
derived stuff. But things are going in the right direction. It's good to see
Brave McHale up here and but keep in mind that last month in Kansas an 11
year old boy was in a drug education class and they were talking about how
these people should avoid cannabis and it was had evil ill health effects and
this 11 year old stood up and said no it doesn't it saved my mother's life and he
went down to list all the good things that cannabis does for people. Well that
ended up with him being taken away from his mother so Shona Banda who's a woman
in again she's in Kansas she saved her life she had Crohn's disease and was on
the brink of death and discovered that cannabis oil could save her and now
she's instead of being bedridden and not being able even to hold her kid when
which she was at the time she's you know an activist and and she had to she's
lost her kid for the time being. So this stuff is still going on there are people
dying and there's the legislation that's coming out there's a lot of legislation
coming out in places like Oklahoma of all places in Georgia but there's CBD
only laws which people want because their CBD is very helpful with seizures
and stuff and it doesn't get you high but that keeps out the THC which does so
much for so much the whole plant medicine is really the way to go and
anything other than that is an excuse for the police to be able to still keep
arresting people. Thanks for letting me speak today I wanted to give a shout out
to LK who's here and who told me he used to introduce to me to people in the
cafe he would say if someday your kids aren't getting arrested for smoking
weed this is going to be the guy you want to thank and that's like the
biggest honor I've gotten from anybody and that's just for you know posted on
Facebook and not shutting up about it we're not done with this fight keep it
up contact your legislatures tell people back in your home states if you move to
Oregon like I did to talk to their legislatures 80% 80% support and
politicians are afraid to support it still in places. Thanks for your time and
look forward to the march later on have a great day
