You know, being Seattle Hemp Fest and being the largest, most sophisticated cannabis policy reform event in the world,
we try to make things up to you. You know, we're going to do a countdown for the 420 here and all that stuff,
but you know, I'll tell you, we felt so bad about the fact that Terry couldn't be here that we decided to do something about it.
Um, you know, there's been this rumor floating around, and I'm going to address it right now.
I got to tell you people that I decided to quit smoking.
And then I realized, hey, I'm not a quitter.
I want to thank some people. First of all, I want to thank all the vendors.
I want to thank the Seattle Hemp Fest for having me out here.
I want to thank all these volunteers who work so hard.
A lot of volunteers around here.
I want to thank the police for keeping the peace.
I want to thank some people who don't get a lot of credit and really deserve it.
I want to thank those people walking around here selling magic cookies and brownies.
Definitely the most energized pot smokers I've ever had.
I think it was appropriate to start here in Seattle because it's the home of the place where the young and the young of heart
took to the streets and flashed a giant neon sign saying,
We're not putting up with this shit anymore.
WTR.
It's because there's an amazing propaganda machine in this country.
Don't you think?
I mean, it's a propaganda machine that makes us actually believe that we live in a democracy
when we know we don't live in a democracy.
I mean, it's a propaganda machine that talks about us living in a free country
when we know we're not living in a free country.
You're free to do whatever you want to do as long as it doesn't go against what the government wants you to do.
So how are we going to turn that around?
I say things like this, the Seattle Hemp Fest are the way to turn this thing around.
Every one of you people who showed up here today, you're making a statement and I'm damn proud of you
and you know what I have to say, keep doing what you're doing.
I'll take it with a cheer.
Thank you all for coming out here today.
You really warmed my heart.
Thank you.
Give me an H!
H!
Give me an E!
E!
Give me an M!
M!
Give me a P!
P!
Your turn, I don't do them.
Give me an A!
A!
Give me an E!
E!
Give me an M!
M!
Give me a P!
P!
Hempfest!
Like a cold war with the comics, the politician and the mic
You can throw a song in prison, but you cannot win the fight
We're talking about good things for good people.
This man Jim knows, take a good look at him.
Get a sense, do it.
This is BB McPink at Seattle Hemp Fest here at Myrtle Edwards Park.
I'm with THC TV and Seattle Hemp Fest and we just had Woody Harrelson speak.
We're enjoying some munchies now, some refreshments.
We've got the herbivores, our house band playing.
We've got so many people out there, I don't know how to count them.
Hey Mr. Politician!
