I want to personally thank every one of you for coming out today and yesterday and on Friday
because this taste of freedom you can't get anywhere else right? I mean this is just amazing
so I want y'all to appreciate that because I'm from Ohio and we don't get this kind of freedom
so this is like going into a time warp you know?
Okay I want to put my two cents in on something and I'm risking my life here I'm sure because
it's such a passionate debate and I don't mean that in a bad way. You guys need to
support anything that's going to bring things forward.
Now what I know the patients aren't happy with 502
but y'all can take out the bad stuff it's just something else to fight about and fight for
but if we can stop the caging up of everyone for making a choice
that's progress. Now you're going to have the cops that are going to be going out there
and are going to be doing their thing and make and breaking the law themselves by harassing
the patients and the sick. That happens everywhere but what we can do is go after
those police officers and try to protect our patients.
You know understanding and compassion is what this movement is about.
So I don't say support or don't support I say vote your conscience but don't be so hard on the
folks that either support it or don't support it because we all have to be on the same side.
Now Ohio had some very good news we just had a
our paraphernalia laws got dropped down to a misdemeanor. See in Ohio we probably got one of
the best well at least one of the top three best marijuana laws in the country. We're allowed to
have up to 99 grams and it's a hundred dollar ticket but now if you have it in a baggie
or you have the papers to roll it you're going to jail don't pass go.
Which was kind of backwards but our legislators stepped up to the plate
and they have lowered the penalties the same as marijuana use or possession. So I think that's
amazing. I've been an activist for over 10 years. I stand up for patients and everyone alike you
know I started out and this was just about Tanya but now it's been so much it's about the world
now you know but you don't know that when you first go into it.
Last August I found out that there's nothing that our doctors can do for me.
I found out I've got massive calcium deposits on my brain all over my brain.
These calcium deposits are on the very important parts of your brain
so I get to look forward to a stroke. I get to look forward to a stroke.
I get to look forward to a stroke. I get to look forward to a stroke.
I get to look forward to heart attacks. I get to look forward to dementia and Alzheimer's.
This disease by my doctors telling me how very sick I was it's actually pissed me off.
You know my doctor I don't care what state I'm in that I'm living in if that's home that's home.
You're not going to run me out of my home for making a choice to try to fight for my life.
If there's nothing that the doctors can do for me and our government has patents on this oh my gosh
our government has patents on cannabinoids as antioxidants
and neuroprotectants. So don't you think that puts me in a pretty good position because
you know what nobody's going to take me out like a child.
I'm not a criminal. I don't have a criminal record. I'm not suffering from drug addiction
and I am not suffering from mental illness. Give me a fighting chance and don't make me leave my home.
I will not leave my home but I guarantee you that they couldn't do anything more to me than
what's already going on. I'm already in a prison of my own body. You know my doctors gave me a death sentence
and what I want to do with it is I want to fight as hard as I can
until I take my last breath. I deserve that.
You know just because my choice of medicine is cannabis doesn't make me a criminal.
It makes me smart.
You know and and so I'm not buying into the the lies.
I really need y'all help.
I'm a mother. I'm a grandmother and I'd really like to try to protect what brain I've got left.
So I'm reaching out to the big dogs in this movement. I'm reaching out to everyone that
is participating and taking the time to listen.
Think about Tanya Davis when you think about Cash Hide. You know do searches on both of us.
You know do searches on both of us. I have a Facebook account. You can email me at tanyadavisis
at hotmail.com. I'm going to be around all day. I'm staying at the Edgewater. Come come talk to me
if you want to talk to me. You know I'll answer any questions you have while I'm still in town.
Thank you for having me in Seattle. Thank you for attending. Remember be good to each other.
We're all in this for the same reason. We're just all going get trying to get there different ways.
Thank you.
