You know, I think that hemp, cannabis, marijuana is the most important plant in the world.
And when we are able to restore hemp without regard to its THC content,
but according to the varieties that make the best seed for fuel and fiber and food,
the best stems and stalks for paper, building materials, canvas, rope, lace, and linen,
and the best buds for medicine, when we grow that all as one crop,
we will replace petroleum and change the whole economic and environmental paradigm.
And it's going to happen, folks. It is going to happen.
We're going to replace petroleum with hemp seed oil.
According to a study of wild hemp here in the United States,
back in 1975, done at the University of Illinois at Urbana,
published in the American Midlands Naturalist from Notre Dame,
one acre of hemp will make over 8,000 pounds of hemp seed.
Now that's about 15 times more than the low THC varieties that they allow to be cultivated in Canada
and that they're starting to allow here in the United States.
So when we remove those bullshit restrictions and allow farmers to grow hemp for fuel
without regard to its THC content, instead of poisoning the earth with petrochemicals,
we'll be reviving the earth.
Instead of taking energy out of the natural cycle, we'll be putting energy back in
and we'll be creating food as a byproduct and fiber as a byproduct,
so we won't have to deforestate this planet anymore.
You know, cotton alone takes about 50% of all the world's pesticides.
Hemp doesn't take any.
So I urge you to go to hemp.org. You can find out a little bit more about that.
Another one of the things I do is I've been blessed to be able to help medical marijuana patients.
And a really bad law passed this year for medical marijuana patients.
And it was signed into law. It's Senate Bill 5052.
We need to lobby the legislature and stop that from being fully implemented.
It's already starting to be implemented, so I have doctors that help patients
get their medical marijuana permits at THCF medical clinics.
And we are not going to completely comply with those laws.
We're challenging the law, and we're continuing to help patients all over the state.
Over the past 10 years, we've been able to get over 100,000 Washington residents
become legal medical marijuana patients so they can possess, use, and grow marijuana.
And we're not going to go away.
You know, patients need to be able to grow it, but every person should be able to grow this plant.
So there's an initiative out there right now, Initiative 739.
We have it at our tables at the THCF medical clinic down by the main stage.
We have another booth up by Seeley Stage.
We need to get signatures to put that on the ballot for a vote.
So we urge you to go out there and sign these petitions, because that's the way we change this,
is we have to stand up and remain politically active.
You know, this thing can continue to provide jobs for people,
but change the whole energy paradigm and the economic paradigm.
If we can replace petroleum, instead of having our money go to Exxon and Mobil
and the Saudi sheiks and Nigerian despots, it'll go to our farmers,
and our farmers will spend it in our own communities.
The whole reason marijuana was criminalized was to stop its use as a fuel.
It was really the petrochemical, pharmaceutical, military, industrial, transnational, corporate, elite,
fascist sons of a bitches who invented the marijuana myth.
And it's only if we continue to stand up and tell the truth to power
that we can restore hemp and save our environment and put food on our table.
So I urge you to go up there, sign the petition. We all should be able to grow this.
Until marijuana is cheap and plentiful, and we can use hemp for energy again, we will not stop.
In closing, I just want to say, you know, this stage has been dedicated to Peter McWilliams for a long time.
He was a great activist.
And there's another fellow, Kevin Black, who has been a Hempfest security volunteer for a long time.
There are a lot of people that have passed carrying this torch to end marijuana prohibition.
I urge you to go out there and do your duty and carry it further.
Thank you again. Thank the Seattle Hempfest.
And restore hemp!
