We roughly estimate that about a third of the people are receiving letters of
recommendation and approval for primarily emotional or mental problems
and that cannabis is a unique psychotropic in this context in that it
has effects on both cognition and affect that also are inextricably
connected with different kinds of physical functioning. For example, with
anorexia people get inadequate nutrition because of their anxiety causing
suppression of the appetite and that when they receive cannabis the nutrition
is improved because the peristalsis and the spasm, the spasm is relieved
peristalsis is promoted so also evacuation which then produces improved
mood and improved functioning. With regard to cognition this also includes
people with thought disorders and you might find this kind of unusual but
there are certain aspects of cognitive functioning that cannabis helps like
suppressing or decreasing obsessive thinking and also paranoid ideation and
paranoid delusional thought. Interestingly the short-term memory loss
that people experience when they acutely medicate with usually inhaled cannabis
they can't hold a paranoid delusion long enough and the same goes for obsessive
compulsive disorder because they can't keep up this string of pathologic
associations. Also the modulation of affect also affects the cognitive
behavior with decreased anxiety this decreases the pressure for this abnormal
type of thought. I believe that a new category is warranted that cannabis fits
and that's easement. If you look that up in the dictionary you'll see several
meanings and one of the main meanings is giving ease not the property legalistic
kind of passage or going on to some property and getting certain rights but
easement as a calming effect and this is what I believe cannabis more closely
approximates. It's not the same as a benzodiazepine which produces sedation
and ironically depression. There is no free lunch pharmacologically so people
they do not like the benzodiazepines and other sedatives for these kinds of
reasons and cannabis helps restore emotional responsivity in a normal way
and this also goes along with people with their paranoid ideation and
disturbance of interpersonal relationships. With certain people with
thought disorder they note that they're more able to relate to others which then
improves their self-esteem and their social functioning. You're never
going to find this written anywhere because of the psychiatric literature
being horribly biased and I've looked through the APA publications going back
maybe 70 years and it all is tainted with the antisocial element and causing
it dysfunctionality or character defect or other kinds of pejorative
condemnatory terms. It's all bill pushing. It's all medication and to that end we
really don't know what is happening and this extends not just to psychotropics
but I'm going to read you a short letter to John A. Kitshaburam, the director
Center for Evidence-Based Policy, Oregon Health and Science University and this
is who I suggest if you want to contact to embarrass a little bit. On February
25th I have the view of panel presentation by your organization on
C-SPAN on the cost-benefit study of different pharmaceuticals contracted by
AARP. The sum total of that panel was they could not develop any cost-benefits
analyses because in that analyzing the pharmaceutical literature they
discovered it was all promotional rather than objective and scientific so
everything masquerading as science is not. So based upon California clinical
experience with a range of chronic conditions our findings indicated
significant advantage over other pharmaceuticals conventionally utilized
because of improved quality of life and fewer adverse effects. Consequently we
request the opportunity to discuss our findings with you attached as a list of
conditions and guess what the response was. So I'm glad this is going over cable
TV in the Portland area and hopefully somebody out there in the viewing
audience can give the center a call and ask them to include cannabis in their
studies and especially about the mental health issue. I would be fascinated to
hear the response but I won't hold my breath.
May I interject just very briefly there's research I'm sure you guys are
all aware of about the synergistic effects of the receptor effects of
opiates and cannabinoids where they basically are hitchhiking with each
other and small much smaller doses of both medications create the same benefit
with of course much less side effects. These are really remarkable findings
and I really regret that there aren't physicians who are just monitoring the
reduction in the prescription patterns of their patients if they doubt that
cannabis is useful. You think that's new? If you read marijuana medical papers in
the Ohio State Medical Society meeting on cannabis in 1860 a doctor from
Miller from Ohio reported that using an alternative alternating courses of
opiates and cannabis for treating chronic condition conditions reduced
dependence on opiates. 1859 this was written and so you know this is
something new. Now we're talking about the takeover by Big Pharma and ruining
policy through their special interest money and furthermore the fact that this
whole system this month can I use the my favorite? Oh why not?
Monomolecular mercantile madness. This is all patent office driven. If you look
back to what it was before the single molecule ascended to its role in current
commercial medicine you'll see that it's all secondary to what can get
patented and they claim that the newly patented material is increasingly better
blah blah blah but then you see what's happened to the literature. It's gotten
thoroughly corrupted and perverted so that you don't know what's happening and
here we have now a drug-seeking drug-hungering public convinced they
need all sorts of combinations of patentable materials and this and it's
really sickening our society and when they started directly advertising to the
public for psychotropics especially ask your doctor. Social anxiety disorder. All
these these kinds of influences to influence you and their bottom line.
Any other questions?
