You want to talk about the breadth of different patients and the type of
patients you see in this. I know you had practiced as a cardiac surgeon for
about 40 years so you'd see people who needed a heart transplant or I know in
one case we were seeing patients in Spokane and a fellow said you had taken
a bullet out of his heart about 10 years before that. So but in this case you're
seeing patients that are different from the typical cardiac patient. No question
that they to have your hand inside a chest around a beating heart is an
extraordinary experience and I think it was one of these experiences that kind
of lit the fire if you will for me and for the future of the use of something
like cannabis. I wonder if I could just say a few words Paul about one of the
things that arises to the surface. Please. Especially when we see people in
the clinics. We are seeing many many people who are coming in with problems
associated with pain and this is a very important subject that needs to be
discussed in the medical field as well as the cannabis field. People who are
become overusers of narcotics and opiates are frequently seen in our
clinics and it's in large part because of the inappropriate giving of narcotics
to patients by physicians and we see this constantly and here we have this
incredible medication which can be used properly can be very helpful in getting
people off of the use of narcotics and opiates and this is one area that we
work diligently on. Yeah I've seen the vast majority of patients that come
through with chronic pain issues who have been addicted by their physicians
to these things from Oxycontin to morphine to many forms of synthetic
narcotics. I would say about 80% of them completely get off of those narcotics by
the time they come in for their renewal the next year. That's cool. That's accurate.
And it may be 10% have dramatically reduced it and the other maybe 5% 5 to
10% have continued it but cannabis has been used by literally hundreds of
thousands of people to help quit their addiction. In fact you know we show these
medicinal bottles on our TV show all the time and one of the things that it says
on the bottles is it's for the habituates of opiates, chloroform, cocaine,
alcoholics with delirium tremens to help them get off all of those drugs so it's
been acknowledged as an aid in that for many many years. And even nicotine. Yeah
yeah nicotine. Frequently you can attach yourself to something that
moves you beyond the average and I think being a part of medicine enabled me to
do this. First of all with the thing I love so much was was taking care of
human hearts and then when that time slipped slided away I could come in and
continue to work with humans and their hearts but in a different way by
advising them about how they can take care of their bodies, how they can avoid
taking and eating the wrong things and the wrong medications and I think I've
been able to realize a second coming if you will.
