VOCALIZATIONS
WHAT TIME IS IT?
What time is it?
What time is it?
5!
You know we love you man, we know we take care of our crowd man.
We care.
Give me an H!
Give me an MMP!
What's that smell?
What's that smell?
What's that smell?
What's that smell?
Awesome.
Seattle Hemp Fest, core group high in protein, high in fiber, low in plutonium, and maximum dosage of freedom.
This is a first you guys, in 10 years.
It's the first time we've been so big, so powerful, so intimidating, that we got evicted from our meeting space.
So basically we've got a lot of our big picture for the fest worked out.
I think this is our first meeting where we've actually had the permit, is that right?
No, last meeting.
Last meeting, okay.
Hi, I'm Yvonne, I'm the hospitality coordinator, and my first Hemp Fest was in 92 when they had the speed.
My name's Toni, I'm her right arm, I work in hospitality, and I started...
My name's Gary, and this is my first year.
I'm the founder of Hemp Fest, I guess.
My name is Katie Morse, I'm the staff director, and I've been doing...
The sun illuminates our grounds, where we build underground railroads and say, oh, to our familia,
and they say, Blancolombia, Blancolombia, does not affect the lives of the inocentes,
descendientes, peasants, children, toda la gente, our gente, your people,
for a drug war that is not equal, for a drug war that is not equal.
I definitely need more peer security people, I need to recruit more than anything, I need overnight people.
We need two people per stage, I want three or four people per stage.
And we're going to keep people on the recycling thing.
The big issue, we'll be cleaning up after the first day so that the second day is presentable.
We're going to have a crew who more or less goes north to south and vice versa, making sure that everything's in check.
We need everybody's help.
Agua.
We need lots and lots of water for our crew.
If anyone has access to those containers, even if you just have one, five gallons of water goes so far,
we're going to need 250 gallons of water, more than that, per day.
Our endless struggle, with our lives they juggle, capitalizing on our labors, working us like thirsty cameos, every day.
It's for the HIPP coalition, it's for all of us, it's for, you know, hopefully it will help support and get out our ideas.
And so it is all of our collective ideas together that will make it happen.
You know, there is no particular leader, so to speak, you know, it's our project.
I want everybody to feel that way about it as much as possible, because that's what it should be.
While our sons and daughters get slaughtered, their lives desecrated, filled with rocas thrown into contaminated waters.
While our fissions become fumigated, but you won't see that on television.
But you won't see that on television.
Yo, what's up? Why you keep forgetting that line?
Man, you know, we're performers and shit.
He keeps forgetting that line.
We should be right back against this thing and not so far out there.
Yeah, right there, between the two paths.
Between the two paths?
Can't see what?
In the bottom, just a little bit here, exactly what's open.
I was saying right up here in this flat area in the first place, facing right down.
I feel like there might be more of a room for people to actually dance.
Yo, well you're over there like 70 feet, dude.
Can't get these people on board with what I'm trying to think here.
You know what I mean? He's going for something that Mick Jagger would need, you know?
Now I'll back up.
And they're almost guaranteed on a Sunday to be unloaded.
That's usually where they're at.
But if we're down there, I mean, that gives us what, another 400 feet away?
So, putting the stage up six or eight feet or something, you gotta get it up in ways to...
Yeah, but once you do that, that whole backside of the hill that you can't see from here, we become an audience.
They'd be able to see all of it.
♪
I'm here with Vivien McPeak, Domgie Olden.
These guys are from Hemp fest, which is happening this weekend in Myrtle Edge Park near 70 downtown.
It's a lot of great ti... What are some of the cool things you got going on?
I hear you have the Headliner. The Headliner of anybody that would think about marijuana.
You've got him in.
Who's your... the Headliner, man. Tommy.
Tommy, Tommy Chong?
Yeah, you know we heard that he was driving up here from California. He's in Texas right now from what I understand
He's taking the shortcut I don't know if he's gonna be able to make it cuz his dealer got busted there you go
I mean never know what's gonna happen with these kind of guys. No, but not that yeah
We got people we have some actually we have some some surprises to that
We're gonna pull out we would have some special guests that I can't even announce because if I did I'd have to kill you guys
Really, and I love you guys so much. You give us hints if you're not allowed to really
All I can say you know is that hemp fiber is very witty
Folks are getting in and
They need to pass us and similar staff. It's just that early part where the infrastructure the events getting kind of laid out and
Not everything is really totally gel together and cohesive quite yet, but you know we got a great crew a lot of good folks
We're gonna kick ass
That banner doesn't go there
The actual banner is about four times that size
Interesting things which is kind of risky
I
Don't know wild crazy paper. I'm Keith stropping
I'm the executive director of normal, and this is Dan beats
I'm from Columbia, Missouri and been on normal support actually longer than anybody else at this point
They're looking forward to some hobnobbing tonight. Oh, yeah
that's right the networking I think is the
newer version of that
It's always fun when there's a major event like this
I think it's close and you start getting phone calls from a lot of your friends and colleagues around the country saying
Are you gonna go? I thought I might go
You know so I could tell a lot of folks were thinking about it
And when I saw their lineup looks like everybody that I know
It's really a model. I hope for other people throughout the country
We're just thinking can we set this up on the Mississippi River front at the arch in st. Louis?
You know something like this might might just work out
Not that long ago, it was a two-foot stage
We ground like that, I was like, okay, I'm gonna see this if I see one band
Dandelion soup
You plant it you grow it you dry it you roll it you smoke it and it goes down smooth
You take a seed you plant it you grow it you dry it you roll it you smoke it and it goes down
We
Give us all we need the food that we eat and
Back to the earth we gotta tell him how it is
Oh
They made laws to outlaw the earth
They told us that this plant was wrong and then they poisoned us with their bleach
But I love a plant. How does that work? We are not the owners of this world
This plant is a gift from Almighty God and if you haven't heard
Americans
Now our marijuana arrest so obviously we're wasting a shitload of money that we should be using to focus on serious and violent crime
I
Love
the
Long weekend
It's already been a long weekend for our staff. Can you believe that?
John Davis and his crew built this amazing stage. In fact, we have six stages for your convenience and pleasure
So let's show our love to John Davis. Can you believe this stage?
This stage is auspicious and certainly I feel very proud of the people in the bands, the performers and the ASL interpreters and the great techs
And our great media crew and our great sound crew and our incredible documentary team that is here. It's just unbelievable
I can't tell you what a natural high it is to look out and see all you great folks here
We're running 20 minutes over so we got to get the Lonnie Rose band up here soon because I can only make up this stuff so long
Even though I'm talking from the heart
But it's probably
I
Haven't been going today. It's been over fairly well. Yeah, it's a lot of fun
Yeah, we've got my fifth one and I try to do this every year probably be my last one. I'll get my time in
Everybody's behaving themselves. Looks like everybody's having a good time
I
Went when it was a gas
You know what to be honest with you? I played for a lot of events and they've been more professional
This has been more
Just tell us who you are and what brings you to M fest
I've had James
blues player from around the putridropolis area and
I'm here at M fest because I believe in the cause I think I suppose I'm a
Pretty extreme liberal, but I think it's insanity
Well, I suppose I think it's insane that there are laws against drugs rather than just helping people who have problems with them
It's not the kind of world I understand
And the thought of people going to prison
for pot or even life in prison
This is to me. This is insanity. I know I sort of knew my fellow Americans
We're a little bit of nuts around the edges. But to me, this is just a no-brainer. It's very silly
Tragically silly
So many of the people going to prison for nonviolent drug crimes are African American in fact
60% of our state prisoners for non-violent drug offenses are African Americans
Yet African Americans make up 12% of the US population. That is blatantly racist and it's perpetrated by the drug war
For it to be a felony. I think is ridiculous and I think it's the worst form of discrimination because
The moment you have any type of felony on your record, you're not gonna get any sort of decent job
That looks into that type of stuff, which I think even even better yet
They're not getting good employees because people are afraid to take the drug test
You know, if you take a piss test it might come out clean
but then they got that technology now where they could read if you're using something to
like
Cover up your urine
So, you know even if you look like a weed smoker
It's a lot of jobs you wouldn't even apply to because you know, you're gonna consistently smoke weed
Oh
I
Don't know what to do
Well, we got invited by the Seattle Columbia committee and
My family lives in Columbia and if you're not aware, there's a situation going on there. There's a so-called war on drugs and
It's basically a war on the people in civil society there
And so we feel that this is a different way of doing our activism through through art and through creative
Using our imagination
so we just did that piece to
Give a synopsis of what's going on in in Latin America in general
specifically in Columbia when I'm watching the Super Bowl and I see that
They're saying people like me are
In addition to like mowing a lawn and having some nachos also murdered a family in Columbia. I
I think offense to that who else takes offense to that
Columbia and it is the people that are propagating the sense that are responsible and they're gonna keep on
They're gonna be I can't even imagine how many families are gonna die because of our drug war in Columbia
My son Todd is currently a prisoner in the federal system
And terminal island which is near Long Beach in California
He was arrested in
July of 1995
for cultivating marijuana
Here's a good one I listened to right-wing radio, you know talk shows. They're fascinating. They can be really irritating but the fascinating
I heard Rush Limbaugh once
Several years ago some guy called in and he was advocating legalizing drugs and Limbaugh cut him off and said under no circumstances
Why I personally said no to basketball players whose careers were almost ruined because of cocaine
You know when I thought
I'll bet you I'll bet you anything that those two basketball players got caught
Okay, which basically proves the callers point
Because if it hadn't been illegal their careers wouldn't have almost been ruined right rush
You know, yeah, so I'm gonna smoke pot. Did that bother anybody?
It's illegal so what in Germany was illegal to save the Jews
Silly
All of our offspring could just absolutely go into non-existence if homosexuality
possible
You see that's why we should all be thankful for a
Very smoking pot!
By now once I started sucking on those joints, what's the next step?
Straight to hell!
Have they pretty much been hostile or have they been open to your opinions?
For the most part they've been very negative
I know I look good to you
You can look at me
What did he say?
I know I look good to you
I know I look good to you
You know we do this quite a bit
Oh you know in our own cities where we're from
I know I look good to you
Oh yeah, oh my god
You are such a stud!
I know!
I'm gonna come look at you!
I used to get a lot of guys like this
A lot of people might think of it as very turn of the century sort of thing
I'm gonna come look at you!
God lives not in the noise of preachers and bible thumpers tongues
There is no way to God through verbal noise of any kind
God's meeting place with you is in your heart
It's been that way down through the ages
When you try to control your population
For their own good or for your good or whatever
You take away the things that make them
You limit and control the things that give them freedom and give them happiness
You control sex, you control drugs, you control death
You control death by telling them if they die they'll go to hell
It's just another way of controlling the people
It's a way that has existed for
I suppose ever since civilization got stinky
You know?
I was a prisoner of the drug war for growing my own medicine
I was given 93 years in prison for a 25 square foot garden
Which had basically 45 plants in it
Due to the outrage of the public
I think it had a lot to do with my sentence being reduced
And then eventually me being released from prison
Organizations like Nora's November Coalition
Normal Marijuana Policy Project
People like Vivian
And Dominique who stands up for people's rights
And puts on events like the Hemp Fest
And invites excellent speakers like Chris Conrad
Mickey Norris which are some of the best drug reformers ever
This is how we're going to change the laws in America
And people aren't going to go to prison no more
Finally I would say the most important reason why we need to end marijuana prohibition
Is because we are needlessly destroying the lives and careers
Of literally hundreds of thousands of genuinely good citizens
Every year in this country for no good cause
It's time we stopped arresting responsible marijuana smokers
I'm not for smoking it, industrial use
I don't see any harm
There's a lot of good uses for it
People fight it because of the
Well from the back balling of it through William Randall Persons paper industry
I guess that's where it first started
I don't mind the industrial use
I mean find rope, find clothing, find paper, whatever
Anything you can make out of hydrocarbon you can make out of a carbohydrate
There's no reason to be burning fossil fuels when we don't have to
If you can grow hemp properly
It is a material that contributes to sustainable agriculture
Because the tonnage of carbon removed from the air
In the form of carbon dioxide
Is high relative to the amount of carbon removed from the air
By other plants like trees
This is a modified 1983 Mercedes-Benz turbo diesel
And the only thing that we've done differently is put lots of wonderful stickers on the car
And put hemp biodiesel fuel in the tank
That's it, no modifications
Also Mercedes-Benz right now has a model 420 M series believe it or not
That's got hemp composite plastic dashboards and door paneling
And they're discovering that it biodegrades
When it breaks upon impact it doesn't break sharply
So it's less likely to injure a person
And we've been on the road for six weeks now
Got 6,000 miles on the car, that's totally on hemp
And we've got another six weeks to go roughly before we end our tour in D.C.
There's a lot of problems that have to be solved
And we can't solve a number of them
Its fiber strength is up on the order of 5,000 PSI
So you get a fiber strength that's equivalent to some of the toughest, strongest woods
When you process hemp fiber using a hydrogen peroxide process
You can control the pollution more effectively than using chlorine processing
Which is used for paper
The hemp that comes out of this process can be made into oriented strand boards
Oriented strand board is the largest growing sector of the materials industry for construction
Oriented strand board can be made with hemp fiber having a modulus of 6,000 PSI
About twice the strength of ordinary particle boards
This makes hemp fiber bonded with its own natural binders
A suitable material for underlayment, sheathing and roofing substrate in houses and housing construction
I got T, Tierra and Ron
We have been thinking about this as simply a political misunderstanding on the part of the government
Or maybe they didn't understand hemp was the same as marijuana
Or maybe they didn't understand that medical marijuana is so important
And we keep educating them on those terms
Government in and of itself is such a hypocrisy
Because you look at it on one hand, it says that until you just say no, drugs are bad
But yet on the other hand, they pay for these psychological drugs
They say, oh, you take this pill, it'll make you feel better
Nicotine, caffeine, alcohol, Valium, Vicodin, Oxycontin, Morphine, sugar, health
TV itself is a drug
It's not a war on drugs, it's a war on us
And we're going to fight back with all the strength and all the fury that we have in our hearts
To defend our culture
To get the money out of your back
If there's one individual I could easily single out
That is so responsible for how together this thing is
How complex it is, how much it's grown
How sophisticated it is, the high caliber of our event
If there's one single individual, I don't have to think for even a millisecond, man
The father of the Initiative I-73, Dominic Holden
Give it up!
Alright, I know it's a very special time
So after you finish with this very special time
I'd like to ask all of you who are registered Seattle voters
To take a few moments to sign I-73
That would make marijuana possession in the city of Seattle
The lowest enforcement priority
Now we know what we don't want, but what do we want?
Well, we want a real drug war
A real drug war is a war on addiction
It's a war on abuse, it's a war on poverty
It's a war on joblessness
That's what we want to change
We want to see a policy that distinguishes between use and abuse
We want to see treatment available for people who need treatment
And we want adults who use marijuana responsibly
To be treated like the Americans that we are
I got friends that are doing time for weed
You know, I've been doing time for weed
Do I look like your friendly neighborhood crack dealer?
I mean, come on
I mean, those are the people you need to lock up
And like put in jail for 90 years
Because look at the lives they destroy
Look at the neighborhoods that they bring down
I've seen whole neighborhoods get like just caught up in the grip of like crack and heroin
And cocaine and all that
You see a neighborhood where people smoke weed
They're the most relaxed people on the planet
I never thought a panel or a jury of 12
Would give somebody 93 years in prison
I mean, I couldn't even fathom that idea
We really came to grips with the fact that it really is a war
You know, it's not just a rhetorical term calling it a drug war
We're talking about people getting shot to death in their homes
By armed people in uniforms
With the government, these agencies, coming with shields
And battering rams and guns to the heads of children
And you know, that's something that a government waging war against its own citizen
Even promoting it as a war
But when you listen to the media, it's like no one's really in jail for marijuana
Oh, it's a revolving door, these people are getting out of no time flat
And so it put us into this whole other kind of a scope
I would say during the first part of our activism in this area
We didn't really know that many people in prison
You look around here, one of the major reasons why people don't know
What's going on with the legalization issues
And decriminalization of marijuana is because the papers aren't talking about it
And that's what we do here, is we are breaking the corporate media blockade
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
...
We interrupt this program for a special report
Breaking news
Good evening and welcome to TFBC News
I'm Shonan Scloverian
Anti-drug marijuana and convicted growers and users are being freed from prisons around the country
And reunited with their families
All thanks to hemp test
TFBC News, I'm Shonan Scloverian
...
...
...
...
...
...
too much chaos, this is too crazy, send the pot smokers back to Hempfest!
They'd be like, we don't want the pot smokers in jail!
Send them to Hempfest!
Hello!
We took two busloads of people to a very small town in Thulea, Texas,
where the civil rights has never been.
There was a very small, small black community there,
and a very large and racist white community.
And what we were able to do there was bridge the gap.
We were working with the ACLU, the NAACP,
we had members of the Black Panther Party supporting us,
we had members from interfaith, interreligious communities supporting us,
we had Amnesty International, the Democracy Coalition,
it was a variety of people that represented everybody, nobody was left out.
And if this dark policy is going to succeed, if we're going to win this war,
we have to include everybody.
And that means reaching out into communities we haven't been comfortable with,
and breaking down our own barriers.
What's up? Let's work together.
And if we can all do that like we did in Thulea, we will succeed.
We'll win the war on drugs.
You guys are going to make it.
Shhh!
Have fun.
Remember, have fun, enjoy the moment.
Whatever your purpose may be.
Some of y'all might be out here just because it's about sensationalizing smoking weed,
but it goes way beyond that.
We're dealing with King Solomon and lamb's bread.
Ya chep!
One, two.
We beat that stereotype, the type that you're pumping, yo.
Stereo, hey!
We beat that stereotype, the type that you're pumping, yo.
Stereo, ho!
We beat that stereotype, the type that you're pumping, yo.
Stereo, hey!
We beat that stereo, yo!
How many truly know about this culture we call hip-hop?
How many MCs nowadays got what it takes to make a crowd rock?
How many the brothers on the block with the Glocks, the Rocks, know where you headed?
Where does the end begin and where does the begin end?
Time to realize, overstand, begin to comprehend.
The end is so near, life is so dear.
It only truly begins once it ends, so have no fear.
Learn to let go of the world and live beyond our physical beings.
Oh, sing, Mr. Bing!
God of our triple sight, moonlight, starlight, eternal sunlight.
Born into this struggle and we gon' win this fight.
This signal being broadcast live and direct via satellite.
Seattle, Washington, lyrics weighing a ton.
Came out of the steries on the run without the aid of a gun.
For ignorance is what we shun, we shall not condone.
Any perpetration of molestation upon this here microphone.
Rundle in MCs' cheeks, material fantasies while copulating with infected records.
Companies spreading disease with ease, but not disease transmitted through your stereo.
One time, here's best, check it out, you could never go, hey!
We beat that stereo side, this side, there's a war in your stereo.
Hey, we beat that stereo side, this side, there's a war in your stereo.
Oh, we beat that stereo side, this side, there's a war in your stereo.
Going great yesterday. It's a beautiful day.
It's been, it's been, it's had its ups and downs, but it's all coming together.
And, and it's beautiful, it's beautiful to see all these people, from all walks of life,
come together and, and, and work on this, on this, this huge, honking.
God, I don't know what else to say, but it's a message, it's definitely a message.
Everybody, side to side, bunch of back, y'all clap your hands.
We're gonna show unity with a hand clap.
Soul, vibrations, transmitted across the nation, international, intergalactic, throughout the universe.
Clap your hands, clap, clap, clap, clap your hands.
Feel the heartbeat, feel the heartbeat.
Hey, hey, yeah.
One, two.
Come on, man, make some noise.
The United States is the first country, often considering itself the policeman of the world,
that would look at other countries and call them on their prison labor and slave labor and human rights violations.
Without looking at, inside in our country, what we're doing to its own people.
We're conditioning our children, right from the time they're in kindergarten, right,
to accept the fact that their privacy is going to be invaded.
And that's wrong.
Because what's going to happen is, ten, fifteen, twenty years from now,
we're going to have a nation of people who believe that that is freedom.
You know, that they only have to go through three or four checkpoints instead of ten or twelve.
You know, and they won't remember a day when there were no checkpoints at all.
They've now tailored the laws where, if you're a drug offender, you're going to be punished.
And don't say it's for medical purposes.
The Supreme Court definitely made that ruling very clear.
Don't be a patient, don't be sick, don't be dying.
You smoke marijuana, we're going to put you in prison.
Before you know it, you have a simple criminal record behind something that keeps you relaxed.
And that simple criminal record could lead to something else,
because you already figured it, you already banned it.
I am so sick of begging for marijuana.
I'm so sick of working and spending my money, my hard-earned money, on marijuana.
When I know that the doctors can give it to me.
I know they can give it to me.
I begged them, I plead with them.
Smoking thirty fucking years, and they still won't give it to me.
I've been here my whole fucking life, never broke the law.
One traffic ticket, and these bastards still won't give me the weed.
Michael Williams Band, show your love!
I don't have a fucking restaurant, but I can have my fucking chef spent on fucking weed.
We hide under el cielo, where it rains US dollars out of the Amazon sky.
Raining down on our village like bombs, exploding our pathways to freedom away, far away.
This ain't some science fiction novel by George Orwell.
This isn't some communist dictatorship.
This is how the United States of America, and Hempfest has one clear message.
We don't play in that crap.
What's it going to take to end the drug war?
We're going to have to get rid of George Bush first.
Yeah, get rid of George Bush and then ask me.
America where there's currently 7,000 unsolved murders.
7,000 unsolved murders.
What are they wasting our precious money and resources on?
They're tracking down people who choose to grow or use or sell a plant.
Where we've got a rape every 21 hours, and that's just on college campuses.
Where's the war on rape? War on drugs?
Give me a break, man.
Attention drug war generals out there.
We are fighting back, man.
And unlike you, unlike you drug war generals, we are non-violent.
We are peaceful.
You cannot and will not stop us because we are not criminals.
We are Americans.
We're going to make that mean something.
And we're about to take our country back and put it in the hands of the people who founded this country.
The hands of the people whose blood and sweat and tears and backs paved the way for us to be here today.
The problem is that in our justice system, we've got too much emphasis on the system and not enough emphasis on the justice.
And I ain't going to make it, man.
That's exactly why we're here today in Seattle, Memphis.
That's why you came out.
And we'll be vocal day after day after day, year after year after year until we've overcome and justice finally prevails.
You become a prisoner of the drug war the day you're accused, the day you're arrested, the day your home is invaded or your car is searched.
That's the day that you become a drug war prisoner.
Because from that moment on, you're totally under the thumb of the criminal justice system.
And they control all aspects of your life.
Tom McCormick's lawyer, David Michael. Give him a warm reception, please.
You know, I've seen the culture. I've been doing criminal defense work for 25 years.
I've been through it all on this stupid war on drugs, as they call it.
I've seen the pain. I've seen the suffering.
I've seen the changes that have gone on in our society and our culture.
And I will tell you that now, now, we are going to win those battles.
We are going to win them now.
It's happening. It's finally happening.
And I'm so proud of all of you for being part of that.
It wasn't always that way.
And it's because there exists a process called the initiative process where people can take control of their own lives.
And it's called the initiative process where people can take control of their own destiny
and take it out of the hands of a corrupt government, corrupt politicians, and corrupt corporations
that do not want to see marijuana, medical marijuana, hemp, whatever that product is,
be legalized and be used by people who have a right to it.
So thank you, everybody. I'm really proud of all of you here.
Who's got pot pride? Say yeah!
Now, you guys heard the Tommy Chongers number, right?
You know, that's what we heard, too.
But I'm sad to say that for some reason Tommy didn't feel it was important enough to be here today.
And, you know, perhaps... No, don't go on, man. Don't do that.
You know, I think what happened is that he was driving from California and he's in Texas right now.
Either that or, like, maybe his dealer got busted, you know, and he just didn't have the energy to make it up there.
But, you know, being Seattle Hemp Fest and being the largest, most sophisticated cannabis policy reform event in the world,
we try to make things up to you. You know, we're going to do a countdown for the 420 here and all that stuff.
But, you know, I'll tell you, we felt so bad about the fact that Tommy couldn't be here that we decided to do something about it.
I am summertime. Trees are blazing is my mind. I like to puff like the sunshine.
For my soft palms I'm ripping lines.
Um...
You know, there's been this rumor floating around, and I'm going to address it right now.
I got to tell you people that I decided to quit smoking.
And then I realized, hey, I'm not a quitter.
I want to thank some people. First of all, I want to thank all the vendors.
I want to thank the Seattle Hemp Fest for having me out here.
All these volunteers who work so hard.
A lot of volunteers around here.
I want to thank the police for keeping the peace.
I want to thank some people who don't get a lot of credit and really deserve it.
I want to thank those people walking around here selling magic cookies and brownies.
These are definitely the most energized pot smokers I've ever had around here.
I think it was appropriate to start here in Seattle because it's the home of the place where the young and the young of heart took to the streets
and flashed a giant neon sign saying, we're not putting up with this shit anymore.
WTR is because there's an amazing propaganda machine in this country.
Don't you think?
I mean, it's a propaganda machine that makes us actually believe that we live in a democracy when we know we don't live in a democracy.
I mean, it's a propaganda machine that talks about us living in a free country when we know we're not living in a free country.
You're free to do whatever you want to do as long as it doesn't go against what the government wants you to do.
So how are we going to turn that around?
How are we going to turn that around?
I say things like this, the Seattle Hemp Fest is the way to turn this thing around.
Every one of you people who showed up here today, you're making a statement and I'm damn proud of you and you know what I have to say?
Keep doing what you're doing.
I think it will change.
I think it will change.
Thank you all for coming out here today.
Have a really long night.
Have a really long night.
20 pounds of glass, 6 foot 3 inches.
We are looking into a twisted looking glass of the future in which the world is incorporated.
For years, it seems to me anyway, for a long time, the powers that be have been relatively satisfied with their own little fiefdoms here and their own kingdoms over there.
Now it's the world, the entire world, and they're actually able to do it.
The stuff is in place.
It could actually be done.
That's what these world trade organizations and NAFTAs and everything are about, is incorporating the world.
And at the same time that's happening, there's a growing consciousness about how that's not the way we want to go.
That's not a good idea to let these people, these business people, make our life and death decisions for us.
So people are stepping into the breach and basically putting their bodies in the way of the tanks.
It's kind of like a global Tiananmen Square.
You stand in front of the corporate tank and you say, over my dead body.
I want to bring out some of our core group that are here.
Let's come out right now.
Jeff, you come out too.
These are the people who make this thing possible.
They've been behind the scenes for so long.
Let's bring them out right now.
Jim, Cher, Jim and Cher, Michael, Sajah, Dominic, Jeff Steinborn, Katie, Emily Cho, Marison, Desiree, Rick.
There's a ton more.
John, Glo, where are you Glo?
There's a ton of us.
Kelly's over there.
Jeff Cook.
Who else do we have?
I'm looking around man.
Ego Man, Alicia, Jason.
Give me an H.
Oh man.
You guys, you guys be quiet.
Let's hear from, please, out of respect, let's hear from the core group here.
Give me an H.
Give me an E.
Give me an M.
Give me a P.
Your turn, I don't do them.
Give me an A.
Give me an E.
Give me an M.
Give me a P.
Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you the house band of Seattle Hempfest, the incredible Arbos.
It's every matter of time, and it's time to take a stand.
Cause it's a losing battle, what nobody can win.
Been going on for years, just keeps right on going.
Like a cold war with the comics, prohibition and the like.
You can throw a song in prison, but you cannot win a fight.
Cause it's a losing battle.
It's all about good things, for good people.
This man Jim knows, take a good look at him.
He's been through it.
This is Vivian McPink at Seattle Hempfest here in Myrtle Edwards Park.
I'm with THC TV and Seattle Hempfest.
We just had Woody Harrelson speak, he's enjoying some munchies now, some refreshments.
We've got the Erboborgs, our house band playing.
We've got so many people out there, I don't know how to count them.
Hey Mr. Politician.
Hey sir.
This is the band merchandise booth, and all the bands that play at Hempfest
will sell their CDs or their t-shirts or records, whatever they have for them.
The bands get all the money.
And this year, I don't know, about 25 bands I think have given us their merchandise.
So far, yeah.
That we offer for sale.
It's just a service we do to the bands, cause all the bands just donate their time to play for Hempfest.
Pretty much mostly local bands, kind of making it part of the, you know,
cause Hempfest is about a lot of things, but it's also about music and local music
and trying to take care of the bands, so this is a way we take care of the bands.
Tribe 13 is the chosen name of our company.
It represents a consciousness from the center.
Instead of coming from a 12 constellations fragmented way of lifestyle,
like I'm influenced by this energy, by this energy,
we throw that all away and we go right to the center and become one with the sun.
We're here basically to keep the peace, make sure that there's no fights,
help out in any way we can, guard the fence, keep people coming in over the railroad tracks.
Flatten scrubs, folks.
My childhood is being knocked off balance.
As I follow camouflaged soldiers through suction cup swamps,
bare crawling underneath barbed wire fences, body tenses,
as the soil smokes cries of struggle and blood bubbles off my two inch trigger finger.
My sister's deceased spirit lingers, shadowed by faceless figures,
as the orange sky is about to fall on our village like a sombrero
and three pieces of straw covering my willow's freedom vision.
Tongues frostbitten, extremities poison written, with bits of crushed gremlin cinnamon.
Inside mountain caves, we listen to underground radio waves
that carry the voices of our people's struggle.
Hasta la victoria siempre.
Peace.
So I guess you have to ask the public, well,
how much time do you give a sick person, a cancer patient now?
I mean, do we go with mandatory minimums or do we say,
okay, he's got cancer, he only deserves five years instead of ten?
Or a person with AIDS say, hey, his life expectancy is really short here,
so let's only give him two years, so he still has a little bit of his life left after he gets out.
You know, it's insane. I mean, to put somebody sick in prison. Why?
I mean, what is the social repercussions of this?
I mean, that we've now vowed to feed a prison industry,
a cash cow, a drug industry, that we deprive on a person
that wants to sit in his house, mind his own business, and smoke a herb, smoke a plant.
We think that the city should spend a lot of fucking money, you know,
working on killers and rapists and stuff like that,
not busting innocent people that are just smoking weed and kicking back.
I mean, come on now, let's be real about it. It's all of our money, you know.
We're the ones paying for all this. Do you think we want our police department,
our money, paying for these people going out, busting people,
smoking weed on their porch and whatnot? I mean, how much harm do people cause
when they're smoking weed? Really, though. Think about it, you know.
Think about it. Just use your brain. It's not hard, you know.
It's all of our money. I think we should be able to do what we want with our own money, you know.
When it comes to cancer, it doesn't make a determination,
well, you're a Republican, you're not going to get cancer.
So medical marijuana cuts across that. It equalizes people because it helps sick people,
no matter what their political beliefs are. And we all know somebody who has something
that either could benefit from it or perhaps even has, and they even know that.
So I think there's a sublime knowledge that it's not a totally bad, as a drug,
plus a breadth of understanding that we need another resource.
Why are we in the midst of an energy crisis today?
Because we did not develop hemp and other bio resources during the 1980s, during the 1990s.
But we do have a good fight to fight here, and there's changes every day.
There's changes in people's minds. This is right downtown, you know.
HempFest has been going on for 10 years, and it just gets bigger and better every year.
And I've got to send all my love and respect out to all the people that put this mad, mad project together.
Because there's a lot of hard work, a lot of hard work to put together some kind of masterpiece presentation
like what we have all around us. I know that the Us Bus was an artistic vision that I had,
and it took networking my friends to pull together the energy to make something
like this happen, you know. Just with the HempFest, it's so big, and it's getting bigger all the time,
and it's going to shine on you crazy diamonds.
I think it's awesome. The coolest thing in this country.
As far as, you know, in regards to this, it's really awesome.
That's one of the best gatherings I've seen in Seattle. So, I'm digging it.
I'm proud the organization is still around. It seems like it's still going strong.
I'm proud of the people that are doing it. I'm proud of the people that are doing it.
I'm proud the organization is still around. It seems to me it's getting healthier every year and more vibrant.
The group we work with out here, the same group that put on the HempFest, Washington Normal,
they're wonderful people. I think it's one of the finest events in the country.
I love being here and seeing it go on. But I think you're going to see it's going to grow.
You're going to have other cities around the country that are going to start doing smaller versions of this,
which will grow into bigger versions.
♪
♪
♪
♪
♪
♪
♪
♪
I hate to say this, but if he's selling pot cookies, he's selling pot at our event.
And we've explicitly asked people to refrain from buying or selling pot or any other drugs at our event.
If he was here eating pot cookies, I can guarantee they probably wouldn't be in the pickles.
I don't support arresting people for selling pot cookies, but until we change the law,
I don't think we need to do it in a place like this.
♪
I'd be a liar if I said I ain't eating pot cookies in my life.
♪
♪
Pig, you know they got words like pig, right? A lot of people out here, a lot of my brothers and sisters use those words.
You know, pig is just like a word for like nigger or something like that, you know?
I mean, it ain't right because I'll tell you why. Each individual must be taken,
and this is my personal opinion, I don't want to tell you what to think, man, that's up to you.
You're all grown-ups, man. You know what to think for yourself. I'll tell you what I believe.
Each individual must be taken on their own merit, one at a time.
And every cop's not a pig, and every stoner ain't my brother. Life's not that simple, man.
And we need to show respect to everybody, every brother and sister, man, no matter what they're doing.
And they're just doing their job, man. You know, we have things like WTO, and some of them abuse their power, you know?
And some of our brothers beat their sisters, too, and some of our sisters mess with their brothers' heads, man.
And some of us stoners rip off our brothers and sisters, rip their gardens off.
We have people rip off our vendors and stuff like that, you know? So it ain't black and white, you know?
It's like, people abuse power on every level, man, because power is corruptive.
But the power of freedom, the power of personal thought, and the power of right to choose, man, that's what it's all about.
So let's show respect to everybody. That is the theme and the message of Seattle Hemp Fest.
Let's end the war on drugs, and let's create a war on addiction, abuse, poverty, and hunger, man.
That's the war that I'm willing to fight.
That's mind-blowing.
Just that whole crowd, man, they're all there.
It's like more people know and believe in this than don't, just because the government has big business.
I don't know, I have a tendency to think that Woody, as a matter of projecting his personality,
and of course the aura that he creates in his life, tries to be an original man every time he presents himself to the world.
Every one of those original thoughts.
You ever thought about a career in politics?
You want to donate? Oh, look at that, I'm doing it right just to begin with.
Donate. Politics. Money. Give me money and I'll donate for office.
There's always been this link of art and revolution in the world, you know,
where artists pave the way of where we're going, and they have creative thought,
and the artists that are on our stages, the speakers that we have,
are melding that space in people's minds, where they're in that state of consciousness,
where they're open and they're having a good time, and the message is going right into their head,
and through their brain, and right down into their heart, and that's what really counts.
There's so many people in prison that don't have that support, like James Gattis.
I mean, five plants and 90 years in prison, it just hurts me so bad,
because I got to know James, and I really feel guilty, because I'm free for the same thing.
I really feel guilty, because I'm free for the same thing that he did, that he's now done nine years in prison for.
PimpFest and events like this are wonderful opportunities for people to gather and talk to each other,
and share their ideas and their experiences. There's no door charge to get in.
You don't have to have money. You don't have to be able to afford to go, you know?
You can just come in, and there's tons of people here, and there's a lot of people that are thinking.
You know, there's workshops, there's music on stage, there's literature, magazines, you can network.
And that's the important thing. That's a very important thing.
Singing to the choir, well, this is where the choir gets together and practices.
And then from here, we go out and we talk to the rest of the world.
I don't think there's any other contemporary political issue on the horizon that could draw even half that number of people.
So, I mean, in some ways, it seems to me, we really have struck a chord.
You can get 100,000, 125,000 people to a two-day event for the celebration of marijuana.
That's pretty cool. I mean, looking out at that crowd, there must have been 100,000. That was easy.
They had 100,000 today last year.
Yep, they did. It's wonderful. It is wonderful.
And they're like, everything's shifting, I think.
I think it's shifting in terms of people's overall consciousness, because once you hear the story of him, it's such a compelling story.
I don't know. To me, music is about expression. It's about spirituality. It's about freedom.
When you start, oh, just suppressing drugs is a little like suppressing music.
I mean, you're trying to suppress people's creativity, and you're trying to keep them from going further,
feel in their minds that you want them to go.
And that threatens civilization, which is trying to control its citizens.
Our government doesn't have the right to control our feelings and what we want, how we should feel.
They're not the brain police. They can't control our thoughts.
I mean, you know, they put me in prison. Sure, they took away four and a half years of my life.
They destroyed my family. I missed my kids for four years.
But they didn't break me. I'm going to support it.
They can put me back there again and again and again.
And I will be right back out here fighting and fighting and fighting.
I will define my government until the walls of this country is changed.
Until the walls of this country is changed.
He's a hero, man.
Well, I just want to say this. You guys are heroes to me.
I really appreciate everything you guys are doing for what's a growing movement. Thank you.
Woody, it's nice to have some star power with it. We don't always have that, so thank you for coming.
Hey, man. Anything to get free Nugs.
Okay. With that, he ends the interview.
Robert Lunday, man, you have done so much, bro. I love you so much, Robert.
Here is your award. Thank you, everybody. Thanks, Viv and HempFest.
And I really am honored and pleased to receive this award.
I mean, I think we earned it this time. Look at this.
Wonderful.
It's just wonderful.
Such a vibe, you know.
And the whole energy, the diversity of the crowd, the music.
Very good.
You better.
HempFest rocks.
Thank you, Viv.
HempFest rocks.
Thank you, Viv.
So you're on this, but...
On her.
Keep it a straight line. We're going to keep on going.
Make sure the people at the edges get the people in the booth.
You heard the herd.
You know what, you cigarette smokers, you motherfuckers who keep the weed from us.
I got to have you guys hold up. Harry, on your side here, I need you guys to meet up with these guys here.
It's really good to be here at Seattle HempFest. We're expanding the linguistic board here at Blue Beach.
It's really good to be here at Seattle HempFest, the largest, most sophisticated and socially responsible cannabis policy reform event in the world.
It's a pleasure to be here with this great community and expound linguistic verbiage from my oratory aperture to stimulate the sense of cerebral adaptiveness.
One more time.
It's great to be here at Seattle HempFest, the largest, most sophisticated and socially responsible cannabis policy reform event in the world.
It's really nice to be able to expound linguistic verbiage from my oratory aperture, my central cerebral capacitor and central adastor.
It's great to be here with such a great tribe, such a great family. We're going to legalize it and then we'll advertise it. Peace out.
Okay, this chunk of the sweep here. Let's all come forward in a slow, smiling kind of way, sort of manner.
Woo!
