Millions of farmers all over the world, this country, had been losing their farms
at the rate of a million a year.
Acreages? A million farms? Well, farmers, you know, at one time there was eight million
working farmers in this country, American family farmers. Now we're
down to probably less than two million. The big corporations, it's the old story
of the big ones eating the little ones, and they're running the small farmer off
the land. And when that happens, the farm town closes down. The first thing, the
hospitals and the schools go. And then what happens is all these people are now
unemployed. They move on to the next big city, which causes the same kind of
problems in that city. I think that all the homelessness, alcoholism, insanity, all
these things that we experience, unemployment in our country, can be
traced back to the first time that the first American farmer was forced off
his land when he was unable to make a living off of a hundred or two hundred
acres of land. And the reason for it is because they have asked him, demanded, or
made it necessary that he raise a crop below what it costs him to raise it.
He loses money on, for instance, if he just example figures, for instance, if he
were to, it costs him two dollars to, or three dollars to plant and raise and
harvest a bushel of corn. And if he only gets two dollars and fifty cents for
that at the market, then he's losing. And this is an accepted practice in American
agriculture today, for the farmer to get less than what it costs him to grow. And
they keep trying to justify it with subsidies and whatever. But the American
farmer would rather go out here and work hard and make his money the hard
way, the way he knows how to do it. Give him an acre, let him do what that acre
can do. Let him do it without all the pesticides, without all the chemicals.
Don't put his yield so low, his money so low, that he has to use every piece or
every gallon of pesticides that he can find to pour on that acre of land in
order to get enough money out to almost break even. They have forced him into
this position. There are even banks who will not loan you any money at all
unless you agree to use X amount of pesticides and chemicals on your land.
Oh really? Absolutely. Because they know that the only way you can make your
payment is if you get so much off of that acre. And the only way you can get
that much off of that acre is to keep pouring the chemicals to that one acre.
Now, when did you first become aware of hemp as a cash crop? A couple
years ago I read a book, I think that a lot of us have read by now, called The
Emperor Wears No Clothes, and it was in that book there was a reprint of an
article. The one thing in that book that I saw that could not be argued with was
an article that came out in 1938 edition of Popular Mechanics magazine, February
edition, if anybody wants to go check it out, that said a billion, a new billion
dollar crop for the farmers. Do you think that farmers today would be receptive
to growing hemp as a cash crop? Because of all the propaganda we've heard over
the years, there are so many people now who believe that it's the evil weed,
but we kind of figure it because of all the products that it can create that it
could be a solution. Well definitely I think most people that I talked to
had no idea just like me that hemp and marijuana was the same thing. We were
ignorant of that fact. Also we were ignorant of the fact that hemp could be
used as food, it can be used as clothing, the first Levi's in this country were
made from hemp, the first Bibles were printed on hemp paper, the Declaration of
Independence, the first two copies of this was printed on hemp paper. People
don't know that. Now when you're out there working with the farmers side by
side, do you have an opportunity to witness ways that we people who are not
involved with the farm communities on a daily basis, those of us who are driving
to and from work and stuck in our offices, what can we do to help the
farmer overcome this misery? They've been together as our backbone forever. There
is a there's a great plan that just I found I became aware of it here a year
or so ago, last year in fact. The farmers have come up with this idea themselves,
it's called parity giving. For instance if you're a rich guy, you got millions of
dollars, you want to do something for the poor, the hungry people, you would buy
direct from the farmers, pay them a certain price, for instance for corn if
you buy a million dollars worth of corn from the farmers and pay them three
dollars a bushel, whatever the market price is. Then you would be able to write
off, you give it to the hungry, you give it to the poor people, then you would
write off what is considered a parity price or a fair market price for your
which would be in the neighborhood of around seven dollars. So you get to
charge, you buy it for three dollars and get to write off seven dollars. So this
would be a great benefit not only to the to the guy with money who wants to help,
to the farmer who gets his products sold, and also to the people out there who are
hungry and needs the food. It's really ridiculous for people to be starving to
death on this planet when there's a lot of food available.
