This is my first time ever at Helpfest, so I'm really excited to be here.
Thank you so much for coming out to listen, and I feel honored to be up here to tell my story.
It is really surreal to be up here. I know it's a little cliche, but if you would have told me like a year ago,
or even a couple months ago, that I'd be up here on this stage today talking to all of you about marijuana,
I probably wouldn't have believed you. And that's because I've only been talking about it for about three weeks.
Up until then, I was a local news anchor in Eugene, Oregon, and that was the job I dreamed of having.
I went to college for it, but it was abruptly cut short when I was forced to take a drug test,
and I failed due to THC. Most of you probably agree that these sort of drug testing policies
in the workplace are ridiculous, but unfortunately even in Oregon and in Washington and other states
where it's been legalized, it's still perfectly legal to have these sort of drug testing policies.
It's a complete double standard, and we just need to keep talking about it.
The fact is no one wants an unsafe work environment. We can all agree on that, but if people are allowed
to use alcohol or pharmaceuticals or tobacco or what have you in their free time, then they should
be able to use marijuana in their free time because it's a safer alternative.
The fact is I was fired for having inactive THC in my system, even though I was 100%
sober at work every day that I reported to work. If I would have stuck to, you know, the encouraged
vices of drinking or using pharmaceuticals, I would still have my job today as a local news anchor.
You and I probably see that ridiculous double standard, but a lot of people don't understand
that still, and it's I think our responsibility to point it out so that people do understand.
That's the only way we're going to ever see more changes to policies and laws. We're doing a great
job right now, but there is still a long way to go, obviously. When you're familiar with cannabis
and you know its effects and you've used it and you're exposed to it, I think that it's kind of
hard to even understand how people can be so against it or, you know, even understand why
we're having this argument. But I think it all comes back to a lack of exposure. If we just
expose people to the truth more about cannabis, then I think a lot more people would understand
and support it. I don't know, maybe some of you have even changed your views on marijuana over
the years. I know I was a dare kid. I, you know, was 10 years old being told all these facts about
marijuana that I just took for a fact because I didn't know any better and I was so young.
But then as I got older and I was actually exposed to marijuana and exposed to people who
used cannabis, I realized that it wasn't as scary as everyone made it out to be, but it took that
exposure. And I really truly believe there are a lot of people out there that are just like me,
that if they were exposed to it and they knew the truth, there'd be no way that they could
possibly be against it. You can be part of the change if you just talk to your friends, family,
peers, if you haven't already about your cannabis use. Actually just tell them that
using marijuana doesn't make you a bad person. And that seems like kind of a fact that we all
understand here, but a lot of people out there don't. There's still all these misconceptions
that just using this plant makes you a bad person. We need to keep talking about it and we need to
put an end to it. If you're thinking about coming out of the cannabis closet, I've learned a few
things so far and I just want to share them with you. Number one, like I said, it's only been about
three weeks and the response has been overwhelmingly positive. Almost everyone who's reached out to me
individually has not only been so supportive, but they've thanked me for talking about this
because there are so many people out there that will still lose their family, lose their jobs,
maybe even go to jail if they even talk about this. So I think that here in a state where it's
legal, if you can talk about it, please do because the overwhelming support shows we have strength
in numbers. We just need to keep talking about it. Number two, the haters are still going to hate
unfortunately, but it's not necessarily a bad thing because fortunately all the ignorant and
cruel comments have been outnumbered by a ratio of about 15 to 1. And even though they're talking
about it and negatively, they're still talking about it. And that leads me to number three,
even though the haters have spoken up, coming out of the cannabis closet is totally worth it
because even when they're using their ignorant remarks, it's in the end, the story is getting
everyone to talk about the facts. And if you know the facts about cannabis, the facts are in our
favor. Therefore, I believe because of the facts, the social acceptance of cannabis use is inevitable.
It's going to happen. It's just a matter of how fast it happens. And the only way it's going to
happen is if we keep talking about it. So take it from me, a former local news anchor, now marijuana
activist, you will not regret it. So just keep talking about it. Thank you so much.
