Thank you.
You know, we've helped, uh,
oh, 110,000 people across the whole country get medical marijuana permits,
and that's a good thing.
But one of the things we keep hearing from the patients is,
why do I have to go back in every year and get a card?
Well, that's the program we've got right now.
And it's a lot better than being thrown in jail if you're sick of marijuana.
At least patients should be, you know,
out of the line of fire in the war on drugs.
And so the medical marijuana law has done that.
And it continues to expand, but it's not really the final solution.
You know, the Oregon Supreme Court just ruled that, uh,
like California, that we have no employment rights.
If you test positive for marijuana, even if you have a permit to do it legally,
then they can fire you at will.
We're still having, uh, our kids taken away from us
in court proceedings. We're still, uh, facing
various forms of, uh, prejudice against us.
And so, really, what we've got to do is end marijuana prohibition.
And when we do, we're going to restore industrial hemp at the same time.
And so that's what our Oregon Canada Tax Act petition will do.
It would, uh, allow anyone to grow their own marijuana
without a license. You can even breed different types of marijuana.
And it starts without, uh, getting a license.
You'd only get a license if you wanted to sell the flowers.
You'd sell them to adults.
We looked at international treaties and implemented a system of controls
that's mandated by these treaties because treaties carry the same weight
as a constitution and judicial proceedings.
So we tried to design a bill that would be upheld in court.
We, uh, designed it the way we did that had a lot to do with it
because so often initiatives go through the process and they're, uh,
ruled unconstitutional. So we designed this specifically
to be upheld in that federal court challenge by implementing the system of controls
that these treaties mandate.
But, uh, one of the things that would happen with the proceeds from the cannabis
is, uh, 90% would go to the state general fund, which the majority
of that goes to education. Then, uh,
80%, no, 7% would go to
drug treatment programs so that people who have problems with drugs
and alcohol can get help. Currently, 95% of them are
turned away when they seek help, you know, dealing with substance
abuse problems. 1% would go for a realistic drug education
program for kids and then 2%, the last 2%, would be directed
to promote hip bio-diesel and hip fiber
and food. Now, I, I truly believe
the reason marijuana is illegal is because the petrochemical
industries came up with a misinformation campaign that we know
as reefer madness. They said marijuana,
this deadly new drug, even though it was the first,
one of the first crops people cultivated in all the first agricultural societies
on this planet, they said this deadly new drug called marijuana
based on racist, you know, propaganda
uh, was to cause people to go crazy and kill their family in France.
Now, we know marijuana doesn't do that. In fact,
what it does is, uh, the flowers of marijuana produce
a human neurotransmitter that, uh, makes people
happy. Or not just one, but several human neurotransmitters
that make people happy and beautiful and pain-free.
And then they bite cancer too. And then you look at
this same plant and it makes seeds that make more
oil and more protein per acre than any other plant.
Over 300 gallons of oil per acre,
that's three times more than any other bio-diesel product. And
at the same time, uh, 6,000 pounds of residual protein
after the seeds are pressed with that oil. And that protein
is perfect. It's almost exactly what our bodies need
in terms of, uh, the protein profile of all different
eight amino acids. In fact, those soybeans make a little bit more
protein. M-protein is much more digestible.
Digest all the soy protein takes two stuffs,
like calcium. Anyway, so we have a plant
that produces more fiber, more protein, more oil than any other
plant on the planet. This is obviously a sacred gift from
the creator, the mother earth. And so we're going to be
grateful that, uh, we're given the task
to free this planet, to free industrial hemp.
And, uh, I think, uh, when we do, we're going to open up our
economy for incredible new jobs. Once we start using
hemp oil for cars, for bio-diesel,
we won't need as much petroleum. Petroleum is very toxic.
Now just imagine if the Exxon Valdez had
dumped a load of hemp seed oil in the Princeton Bloom Sound
there, you know, 20-some years ago. That would have, you know,
it would have been nutrition for the environment. But the petroleum
wiped out the environment. So we need to
restore hemp, and that's what this petition will do.
Well, I'm really proud and honored that
John Trudell and his bad dog fan here, the bad
dogs, they, uh, are helping support this and get this
word out. I want to thank you all for coming. Please give some more
petitions and support our campaign and help us restore hemp.
