Hello ladies and gentlemen, this is Gatewood Galbraith. I'm here in this wonderful city of Portland, Oregon at the bequest of my longtime friend and marijuana activist and all-around good guy, Mr. Paul Stanford, sitting here on my right.
And the movement's dream voice on radio and on the internet, Mr. Casper Leach, host of Time for Hemp, timeforhemp.com, check it out.
We're here today at a fundraiser for me. Let's hear it for our fundraiser for Gatewood Galbraith.
Let me explain it to you. I am from Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky. I'm an independent candidate for governor this November in the governor's race in Kentucky.
Today is May the 15th, I believe, and so we have about six months to go. They brought me out to be on Paul's TV program, which I was very honored to be asked.
And they have set this up, a fundraiser for me, in this wonderful theater called the Clinton Theater. And the audience is small. I can feel the dedication to seeing laws change on a variety of subjects, which includes marijuana in the case of this group here that I'm associated with today.
Kentucky was the world's largest producer of hemp for over 100 years. It was our largest cash crop for more than a century. And imagine that, a state whose largest cash crop was hemp.
And I'm sure that the smoking aspect of it was also well represented. People, of course, in the early 1900s, it went down and they legalized it in 37.
Kentucky should be the place where cannabis is returned as a cash crop in the state of Kentucky. And I started out a long time ago to try to make that a reality.
I'm a fourth generation Kentuckian. I was 24 years old in a milkman in 1971 when I decided I was grist for the mill, that I was going to end up in prison or in jail or dead at an early age.
So I decided that I better learn the system or I was just going to be a victim of it. So I decided I was going to go to college and become an attorney.
And while I was at it, if I was going to put that much into it, I might as well become governor and change the marijuana laws in the state of Kentucky and quit treating our people like we're in occupied territory.
And take the government out of the helicopters, out of the air that are hovering over the fields and gardens of the people of the state of Kentucky and put marijuana into the hands of as many sick and dying people in the state as I possibly could.
And that's what I started out to do 40 years ago and I've gotten up every day since that time to do that.
I've run for office in the state of Kentucky on several occasions. This is my fifth time for governor. I've also run for agricultural commissioner, attorney general in Congress twice.
I've polled some mighty impressive numbers. I won't bore you with them all. But let me tell you that this time we is the very best chance that I've ever had to actually win the governor of the state of Kentucky.
Let me tell you what that would do to the political landscape in the United States of America. That would be phenomenal.
There was an independent elected for the first time in 150 years in Rhode Island last political season. But he had been a state, a U.S. state senator out of that state.
So he already had a statewide basis to go independent with. My running mate and I are totally independent. No party affiliation whatsoever. I've got a lady running mate named Dee Riley who's phenomenal.
The mother of six, two adopted. One of her natural children has special needs. She knows where the politics hit the road about policies for women and children in the state.
And she's smart as a tack and we need more women in leadership roles in the state of Kentucky.
I am running this time. This is what I say. They say, Galbraith, you're a perennial candidate. That's what Kentucky's got, perennial problems.
If the people in Kentucky had beaten me, had actually fixed the problems, I wouldn't have had to run again. But they didn't and they haven't and they can't.
Because neither party can produce a candidate that can disengage from partisanship long enough to work the other side to get the job done.
And the leadership of the parties, both the major parties in the state of Kentucky, had their horns locked up like two bulls fighting over territory while the business of the people lays dead in the dust.
So my running mate and I say that only an independent who doesn't care who gets credit for doing what's right for the people of the state of Kentucky
stand the best chance of untying that Gordian knot and letting both parties operate in a fashion that a lot of the well-intentioned membership really want to work.
The beauty of it is we're not looking to replace either party. We're not looking to throw the rascals out.
We're not looking for you to vote against your representative or senator. And we don't want you to renounce your family's party.
We're not asking you to do that. We're not asking you to vote for the dreaded other party.
We're asking you to vote for an independent who wants to work with you to try to get the job done.
And so I've offered myself again this time and the difference is there are several things.
First of all is that everybody's sick and tired of the gridlock in Kentucky.
As they say, I could accuse Kentucky of being the victim of electile dysfunction.
They just can't seem to get it right.
And so what we think is that we know for a fact that we're already climbing in the polls.
I said last time they polled us about six months ago at 5% and they said, what did you think?
And I said, that's great with me. I believe we'll be 10% by May and 15 to 20% by September.
We were at 13% in April. So we're moving on up. We're not really spending any money. We don't have it to spend.
But I've never spent more than $20,000 on any campaign in the past. We've spent $140,000 on this so far.
$90,000 of it is my money. I practice law for a living. I live fee to fee.
But I smell it this time. I smell it this time. That people are sick and tired of it.
I got endorsed by a union the other day and I said, why did you folks endorse me?
They said, because you've never lied to us, Gatewood.
And I said, well hell, if I was going to lie to you, I'd already been elected.
And people are understanding that. People are cluing into that.
So what does an election for Gatewood, Galbraith and Kentucky mean for the people of the city of Portland and the people of Oregon?
I'll tell you what it means. For the first time in my memory that I've ever heard,
the people of America are going to have a champion who believes it when the Founding Fathers conferred sovereignty on us as human beings.
When they said that every human being is endowed by their creator with life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
Certain inalienable rights. And for the first time, think about that.
Before the American Revolution came about, we were all property.
We belonged to the local king or queen, to the local warlord, whoever possessed the most gump powder in the valley.
You didn't have any inalienable rights. People didn't have any inalienable rights.
If the ruler said, hey, come in here, off with their head, there you went.
There was nobody to intercede on your behalf.
But the Founding Fathers took humankind out of the category of property and conferred on them the concept of sovereign human beings.
Self-determinative, individualized, worth something individually and something that the government couldn't take away or mess with.
And they wrote a constitution.
The Declaration of Independence didn't become law, but the constitution they fashioned to try to immortalize that was their attempt to write a set of laws that was going to keep that project in mind.
So it was a human revolution, that conference of sovereignty on the individual.
And then they turned us loose.
And with that kind of freedom we've come to America and that's the way it was supposed to have started out and what we've been trying to keep up.
But that concept of individual sovereignty is under great pressure today.
And the current generation is facing the greatest threat of all of having the Bill of Rights just flat drawn out from underneath us.
In the nanny state thought line of protecting us from ourselves.
But what it is, is absolute assault on the privileges of sovereign human beings and sovereign citizens of the Constitution.
So the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness is not a law because it's not in the Constitution.
But in the state of Kentucky, the very first section of the Constitution of the state of Kentucky says that we are all possessed of inalienable right to life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness.
So I'm going to reconstruct Kentucky's policy and Kentucky's government around that thesis.
And we're going to rediscover whether America still has a pulse.
We're going to try to become the template of what freedom of the individual means in the state of Kentucky.
I believe we'll become a tourist mecca.
I believe that people will come in from all around the country and the globe to see what it's like to live free.
And I'm not talking about riots in the streets.
I'm not talking about, you know, people causing a tumult out in public.
I don't see that happening.
I just think that the idea that we're attempting it is going to bring in the right-minded people.
But we're going to try to spread it out.
We're going to try to rediscover the American Revolution.
And we're going to do that by putting the processes and the surpluses of a form of government out to the people instead of special interests.
I know who those special interests are, and I'm going to put a stop to it, and the savings we're going to put back into the hands of the people.
So I can tell you a couple of plans that I have for the state of Kentucky.
I would appreciate if I get that opportunity.
I'm sitting up here with a couple of movers and shakers in the prospect of medical marijuana and marijuana to the people.
I said early on that I wanted to make marijuana legal, but I don't want to make marijuana legal because eight-year-olds can stand on the street corner and eat a tomato, and that's legal.
I don't want that.
I want some sort of—people ought to be able to grow their own and be regulated by families.
If there's any problem with it, bring in social services instead of the cops, you know, and only that under probable cause.
But if there's going to be commerce in it, the government has a right to license and or tax.
They just have that right.
I mean, that's commerce.
They do the same thing with widgets.
So, you know, but I want that money.
I don't want it going over to the corporations.
I don't want Friday night sales.
I don't want golden arches.
I don't want clearance sales.
I don't want any advertising encouraging its use.
That's not what we're out here for.
You know, at the same time, I'd like to see the money that's generated go back to the dealers, the people who are dealing now.
They're some of the best minds of this generation.
They're running a billion-dollar business without a shred of paperwork.
You know, I think it ought to stay in the hands of the people who are putting it out now.
But I'm also going to put it in the hands of all the sick and dying Kentuckians.
I want to take it out of the hands of the teenagers and put it over to the hands of the people in the old-age homes.
I mean, it would put a smile on their face.
It would increase their appetite and think about the increased visitation by the young folks.
Hey, let's go see Dad.
You know, I want to educate the kids in the state of Kentucky, and I have plans for doing that.
I'm out here to see if I can raise any money.
I am a criminal defense attorney.
I can also hire any lottery winners out there who need a little consultation.
There is no limit.
There is a limit on a thousand-dollar contribution in my race for governor, but there is no limit on an attorney's fee.
So anybody who needs any special consultation, I'm the man to do it with.
Money is probably going to be the biggest issue in this race.
We probably need to raise about a half million bucks.
We're at $140,000 right now.
As our numbers begin to climb, I think the money will start to come in.
But this early money is the most important.
So I've got envelopes down here that if you want to make a contribution, you can take this envelope and fill it out.
You can either mail it to us or give it back to me here tonight.
They're in a box over there.
I have our handouts.
This is our push package.
This is me and my running mate.
I had some people complain about a woman as a running mate.
I said, you're just jealous because she can out-ride, out-shoot, and out-fish every one of you.
And she can.
So she's quite a lady.
And then I have this with me this evening.
This is my autobiography.
It's called The Last Free Man in America Meets the Synthetic Subversion.
It is the story of 40 years of work on my behalf to try to find out just what went wrong with America.
What went wrong with the concept of individual sovereignty.
And the name of the book is The Last Free Man in America Meets the Synthetic Subversion.
And that's what went wrong.
That we were an agrarian society.
We produced it all from the land.
We discovered the plant that was the answer to all our basic needs.
Probably with fuel medicine and food.
And then they discovered petroleum.
And they discovered all the synthetic processes that could be done to extract products from petroleum.
And they decided to take the farmer out of competition with them.
Not only in the petrochemical but the pharmaceutical and medicinal aspect.
And so now a great number of our problems are dealt with because both the major parties that were set up to protect us.
Both on a national and local level.
Had been bought off with the special interest money.
Extraordinary special interest money.
From the people that I call the petrochemical, pharmaceutical, military, industrial, transnational, corporate, fascist, elite son of a bitches.
The ones who have never said the pledge of allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands.
And the ones who view the constitution and the bill of rights as impediments to the implementation of a new world order and global economy.
And that's just where it's at.
These people were bought off.
The people who are supposed to be protecting us.
They're trying to dismantle the constitution and our rights just as fast as they can.
Well they ran into a hard road to hoe in the state of Kentucky if I get to be governor.
I recognize them for who they are.
Them guys.
And I ain't going to let them guys take over and make a mockery out of the sacrifices of all the dads and granddads who hit the beaches at Normandy and Iwo Jima.
So that you wouldn't have to pee in a cup to hold a job in America.
So we're going to rediscover whether the people, in fact those people died in vain.
Every generation must rewind its own freedoms.
That's what it says here in this little cloud on the front of the book.
You know all the sacrifices that anybody in the past up until the last second of my talking to you don't count anymore.
It's what you're willing to do from this second forward that's going to decide whether we still have any freedoms in America.
The reason I became a champion of marijuana is because I was asthmatic all my life.
And I was in and out of the hospital on many occasions.
I was 4th for the Army.
I made the Marines take me by getting a couple of doctors to say I had outgrown it.
I was on paracetamol for six weeks and somebody pitched some dust in my face and I went into an asthmatic attack.
I was discharged from paracetamol in the Marines.
I was 19 years old. I didn't know marijuana cured asthma.
A friend of mine came back from Bangkok, Thailand with some Thai weed and said,
Gatewood, try this. And I said, isn't that dangerous?
He says, it'll help you.
He had to become a doctor so I trusted him.
I smoked marijuana the first time.
Just like that. It cured my asthma.
Just like that.
For someone who's gone through a lifetime of 21 years,
being totally afraid that at any moment their lungs are going to close up on them,
let me tell you, that creates a lot of free-floating anxiety.
And a lot of fear.
Marijuana cured it.
Just like that.
Because I'll tell you what,
marijuana is a gateway drug.
Marijuana is the gateway to existentialism.
When you discover there's more than one reality,
when you discover that it is not just one way of looking at things,
there are things called perspectives.
When you discover that you have the widest range of choices you ever imagined you had,
because you now understand there's a second way of looking at everything.
You just doubled or tripled or quadrupled the way you can look at things.
It's damned entertaining trying to figure out which one has anything to do with reality.
That's what makes it such a wonderful thing.
It just alters your perspective.
So does getting up and going looking out the window, getting off the couch.
So does thinking.
But when I discovered it cured my asthma, what could I do?
I couldn't shut up about it.
So I became its champion, and I still am.
And I can't tell you just how exhilarated I am,
having come out here to Portland and see the kinds of advances that you all made.
And to be associated with a person who's helped make those advances,
Mr. Paul Stanford, is just a real thrill.
And I'm out here to learn from him, because he's been very successful in helping out.
And I'm sure all of you who have helped him deserve a great deal of that credit, too.
And Mr. Casper Leach, who's known worldwide for Time for Him,
who's had Paul and me and Willie and all kinds of other folks on Time for Him for 20 years now.
I've been at it for 20 years.
So to come out here and be associated with these people is wonderful.
But I am looking into the camera, and I know that this is going to be played in places other than this theater.
So let me tell you a story.
I was running for governor in 1990.
I had $700 on me.
My wife was divorcing me.
I was pretty well bankrupt.
But I wasn't going to give up on the governor's end of it.
So I went out and I rented a TV camera and a chair, and I sat in the camera and looked into the camera
and gave who I was and what I was doing.
Then I paid him another $400 to send it up on satellite.
No particular time, nothing.
Two days later, I'm coming back to my law office, and there's a note on the door that says,
Gatewood, call your ex-wife.
Willie Nelson is trying to get a hold of you.
And so I called my ex-wife, because my phone had been cut off.
She said, Yeah, Willie was driving down the road on his bus, surfing the channels,
and he caught the whole 30 minutes of you looking into the camera and talking about what you were doing.
And he says he wants to help.
And so I called Willie, and we got together.
And there's a whole story about how that happened, but that's a pretty good start.
But the fact is that you can never tell how far your voice is going to carry into who's going to be watching this.
So I'm telling you that if you want to advance freedom and individual freedom
and attempt to find out whether America still has a voice,
the Gatewood-Galbraith-D. Riley campaign for governor of the state of Kentucky is the one to get into.
And we figure we need about a half million.
We've raised about $150,000 thus far.
We can always use a big dog.
There's times when big dogs got involved in this.
But I'm willing to advance the idea of America more than anybody else is in this country.
And I'm just the guy to do it.
I was voted the honoreest kid to ever come out of Nicholas County.
I'm just the guy to do it.
But I really appreciate it.
I've been just ecstatic about my treatment out here and meeting all you fine folks.
If you can make a contribution tonight, I have a book for you.
And if you can't, I probably still have a book for you.
I'm that kind of guy.
Thanks very much.
