I think it's reasonable to talk about the malady that most of our patients are complaining of in the clinic,
and that is back pain.
Now there are a lot of reasons for back pain, but by far the most frequent reason for discomfort is degenerative disc disease.
Now you all know that at one time, at least most of us believe that at one time we were swinging in the trees
and we ultimately came down and stood up on our hind legs,
and this was one of the problems that encountered the problem with disc problems.
If you stand in a vertical position, you have vertebral bodies that have shock absorbers between them,
which are called discs, and I'll just write, I'll show you a little bit of a diagram here.
These are vertebral bodies, and in between the vertebral bodies, as shock absorbers, we have discs.
And this is just, gives you an idea of what our problems are.
Now the discs are, as we said, shock absorbers.
They are very thick and fibrous around the periphery and very tough,
but as time goes on, as we age, we start to have degenerative problems in the disc.
This is a disc looking down on it.
The outside is fibrous tissue.
The inside, strangely enough, is gelatinous.
So it's like jello.
Now what happens to these discs as they degenerate is,
in some cases, they get a weak spot and they bulge.
When they bulge, they have a tendency to cause pressure on nerves that originate from this area,
and it can cause pain.
Another problem is when one of these ruptures, it actually breaks open,
and this gelatinous material is forced out and sits outside in this area,
and once again causes pressure on these nerve roots.
So this is the thing that we see with most frequency,
and there are many ways of treating this.
Because I am surgically oriented, I am most happy with a surgical approach,
but it's not always possible.
So today we can treat them surgically.
We can treat them with some injections of lidocaine or material that will decrease pain,
but we end up most of the time using our proverbial cannabis,
and cannabis helps these people incredibly with handling their discomfort.
And once again, this is the thing that we see with most frequency in our clinics.
All right. Thank you, Dr. Roach.
