The surest way to empty a room is for an old guy to start telling his life story, so I
promise you I won't do that.
I wrote the Cultivator's Handbook in 1968.
I wrote it because at the time we were engaged in a terrible war in Asia.
DEA didn't exist.
It was the FBI enforcing drug laws.
Richard Nixon, our criminal president, was the man in the White House.
And I'd been growing for a couple of years, and I realized that if we were going to be
free, truly free in this country, we had to be able to grow what we want to consume, whether
it's marijuana, whether it's our own garden of vegetables, whether it's opium.
Whatever it is you want to grow, if it's a natural plant, if it's a free gift from God,
that is your right.
Now those rights don't exist unless people like Paul Stanford and Oregon Normal enforce
those rights in our name.
You know, when somebody like Paul Stanford goes to his state representative and says,
I've got an organization with 200 people in it who vote, they're going to yawn at him.
He says, I've got an organization with 2,000 people in it and they vote, they might pay
attention.
If he says, I've got 10,000 people and they're all registered and they all vote, then the
politicians listen.
So as much as I hate belonging to organizations, and those who know me will tell you, I don't
belong to many.
I think it's incredibly important that you give Paul and Madeline and the other folks
here from Oregon Normal and from the HIPAA Cannabis Foundation your support by registering
and voting and showing up whenever it's possible to let your numbers speak where your voices
may not be heard.
So I want to thank you all for coming today.
I want to thank you for being the generation that's going to make it finally happen.
You know, I'm probably your grandfather's age, your grandmother's age.
I've been working at this for 40 years.
You guys work at it for another 40 years, but I'll guarantee you before one or two more
years is out, this whole scene is going to change.
And then you work to get rid of these other oppressive laws that are taking away our freedoms.
Work at it.
Don't let them do it.
Show up, vote, join the organizations that are making a difference in your lives.
God bless you all and God bless Jack Gerard.
