a disease called glaucoma.
It's usually a disease that is caused,
that is found in elderly people.
And it ultimately, if it's not treated appropriately,
it can lead to blindness.
Now the pathology in glaucoma is
that there's an insidious increase in pressure
within the globe of your eye.
There is a normal pressure that is acceptable
in the eye and there is an excessive pressure
that is not acceptable in the eye.
Now the eye, this is a crude drawing of the eye.
This is the cornea.
This is the globe and here is the lens that's
on the inside of the eye.
So light comes in through this area here,
through the cornea, through the lens,
and it's focused on the retina.
And the retina is a light sensitive coating
at the back of the eye here.
This is where the optic nerve comes in
and supplies fibers to this.
Well in glaucoma, the pressure goes sky high
within this globe.
And the treatment for glaucoma is to somehow get the pressure
down within the globe.
It just so happens that one of the many virtues of cannabis is
that it has the capability
of decreasing intraocular pressure.
And I'll tell you an interesting story.
Years ago when I was active in basketball,
I got stuck in my eye by an index finger and I bled
in my globe and five years later I got unilateral glaucoma.
Well one of my friends is an ophthalmologist
and has been taking care of this.
And an hour before I went to visit him,
I took a small amount of tincture of cannabis.
I went in to see him an hour later.
He took the pressures in my eye and they were seven.
Now that is way, way down from the pathologic pressure
and he said, yes, my drops are working.
Well, it wasn't his drops at all.
It was the cannabis.
So cannabis is a very effective way used properly
to decrease the pressure within the eye
and to preserve this wonderful retina back here
that transcribes all the visual sites into the brain.
So come to see us if you need to have some help
with the management of your glaucoma.
Thank you.
