We're marching in conjunction with over a million people around the world.
There's over 400,000 people marching today in Santiago, Chile.
Almost 200,000 people today in Buenos Aires, Argentina.
50,000 in Toronto, Ontario.
You know, we've got some regulation of marijuana.
People aren't going to jail.
Our legislature's done a good job in making some good changes, a few bad changes.
But some good changes.
But there are a lot of people still going to jail around the world.
And this is the global marijuana march.
And we need global marijuana freedom.
And so until we have that, we are going away.
You know, marijuana prohibition was never really about drugs.
Marijuana prohibition was always about money and power and the further centralization of
economic and political control.
Marijuana prohibition is really about energy.
It's really that we can drive our cars on hemp fuel.
And we will when we can grow high THC cannabis without regard to its THC content.
But for the varieties that produce the best seeds and the most seeds, over 400 gallons
of hemp seed per acre with a byproduct of four tons of high protein food at 40 tons
of fiber.
We can not only give the world clean energy, we can wipe out world hunger with the seed
meal leftover.
We can stop deforestation with the byproduct of fiber.
We can decentralize wealth by taking money out of the hands of Exxon, Mobil, the Saudi
sheiks, the Nigerian despots.
Instead of having all that money go into their bank accounts in the Bahamas, the Caymans,
the Swiss.
Instead of it going there, it will go into our farmer's pockets.
And that money will enrich us all.
And that's the main reason that marijuana was prohibited.
It's really about a battle between the natural cycle and the synthetic cycle.
And the people who brought us the lies about marijuana, the misinformation campaign, are
the petrochemical, pharmaceutical, military, industrial, transnational, corporate, elite,
fascist sons of a bitches.
And when we can restore hemp for fuel, we will change our whole economic paradigm and
reestablish freedom.
You know, freedom isn't just about speech, assembly, those are important.
It's also about consciousness and feeling good.
And hemp grows on trees.
It should be cheap.
It should be plentiful.
When we start growing hemp for fuel, the whole world will change.
Medicine will be cheap.
Our economy will decentralize and we'll have a sustainable world.
And that's the goal and that's why I'm marching today.
I want to thank you guys for coming out here.
Keep working until we restore hemp!
