So, just a little about Whole Foods Market. You may be familiar with us. We have a few stores here in the metro area.
When we evaluate a product, we run it through our core values. So, at this point, I think we have eight core values.
We sell the highest quality national organic foods. Does hemp qualify? Yes.
We create ongoing win-win partnerships with our suppliers. We have awesome suppliers who provide us with hemp.
We support team members of excellence and happiness. Hemp makes us happy. Excellent.
We serve and support our local and global communities. Well, it looks like the state of Oregon wants us to support them.
We create wealth through profits and growth. I'll go into a little bit more of that. And, yes, hemp, legal hemp, can be profitable.
We practice and advance environmental stewardship. Hemp is a sustainable crop. It's non-genetically modified.
We satisfy, delight, and nourish our customers. Affirmative hemp.
And we promote the health of our stakeholders through healthy eating education. Yes, hemp is also healthy.
I like my little Oregon hemp logo there. I did it on PowerPoint this morning.
Why hemp? Well, you probably all know this. Preaching to the choir here. Hemp functions as a nutritional powerhouse.
It's a complete protein. I've been vegan and vegetarian for parts of my life. I'm not now, but when I was, hemp was a major source of protein.
It's a much better source of protein than almond or other nuts, and it's a lot more digestible and healthy than soy.
Also, it's healthy fats, complete profile fatty acids. It's got vitamin E for immunity and plenty of dietary fiber. It tastes good, too.
And this is also one of our displays from our last hemp history promotion featuring products.
It looks like from Living Harvest and Manto Harvest. Lots of hemp leaves.
So you've probably seen stuff like this. This is sort of the market justification.
There's a lot of stuff you can do with hemp. Those tables out there from Hemp Industries Association,
and their allies kind of show that. So you have hemp seeds, hemp stalks.
When I heard Congressman Blumenauer mention about a half a billion dollars, I think that's radically underestimated.
Just from how much I know we sell and going out to our competitors, seeing two-pound bags of hemp seeds at Costco now,
going to farmers markets and seeing hemp everywhere, I estimate that number is a lot higher.
And that does not even scratch the surface of market potential when you look at all the things you can do with it.
Did you know that cars currently have hemp parts now? A lot of imported cars. I didn't until recently.
So hemp and Whole Foods. We've got about 90 brands that currently use hemp ingredients, mostly from Canada.
About 300 products on raw. We don't really have very good data at Whole Foods, so it's our estimate, as my friend Christina would know.
Right now it's about 25% annual growth. So that's a multiple of three or four of our own company growth.
That's one of our top growing trends right now. And it has been like that for the last three to four years.
And it's also the core ingredient in growth brands. You've got all these awesome companies that are utilizing hemp.
A couple more recent items, including a really great veggie burger from a Kansas called Hillary's.
She's got a hemp burger. I saw a hemp tofu that we're working on instead of soybean tofu.
It's going to be tofu. We've got a lot of products that can be derived.
Obviously soap and cleaning products is a big thing. Non-dairy beverages. Hemp as a nut milk for cereal, for baking.
Cereal snacks and bars. Nature's Path has done a fabulous job of marketing hemp in their products.
Vegetarian meat and protein sources. So not just protein shakes as an alternative to whey or soy, but also like I said, meat alternatives.
Burgers and hot dogs and tofu, etc. I've actually seen hemp yogurt. Not sure if we've commercialized it yet.
It wasn't that good. Essential fatty acids and culinary oils.
And then stuff that I'm not necessarily selling groceries, textiles and apparel.
And then finally, talking to our construction team about utilizing hempcrete.
We actually did a promotion on hemp as a concrete source in Colorado this summer during our Hemp History Week.
They were showing off cinder blocks made out of hemp. I had no idea.
So these are some of the brands that we've worked really closely with.
I think we're doing Hemp History Week promotions now for about three years.
And every year I think we've gotten better at it.
And a big thanks to Christina Ogeisi and the Bronner's Hooks, but also these other brands.
Living Harvest, Manitoba Harvest, Nature's Path and Nutiva.
And that is a display. Like I said, everything's bigger in Texas.
That is a Texas-sized hemp display out of the Delaware store in Houston.
Really great grocery team leader there who really gets behind the stuff.
And this is a picture from the USDA. I believe this is in Arlington, Virginia.
Those are hemp stalks. So I can't wait to go visit Rick's farm to see him standing by 15-foot-tall hemp stalks next year.
Rick, I'd like that exclusive on your product. We'll talk about that.
So it was 2013, our Hemp History Week promo. About 880 events.
This is more than even just Whole Foods. Up to 300% sales lift.
I don't want to bore you with numbers here, but I think we did over a million in sales in like two weeks on hemp.
Products that included hemp. And then all the other stuff that you guys heard today.
About 20 states, 10,000 signatures. It's growing. It's going to happen.
And then internally, we just did a lot of PR.
The last few years we've had some really good blogs, social media, in-store signage, marketing, demos.
A lot of customer engagement. Folks really get behind it, really excited about it.
Our team members building displays, doing demos, and talking to customers about all this stuff.
So it leads me to say to you folks, what the hemp are we waiting for?
And that is a, I don't know if you call it a sprig of hemp from Colorado.
I did get to attend the first ever legal domestic industrial cultivation of hemp in southeastern Colorado.
It was an incredible experience, and that hemp did taste good.
So thank you so much.
