We got the Jack, we got the Jack man, we got the Jack man. Make some noise for Jack Herrera.
Truly without the book, hold on a second, one second papa. Truly without the book the emperor wears no clothes.
Very few people really know what's going on right now. This is an awesome book.
Every ganja smoker should have this book in their house.
So when someone's up in your house telling you man this and then ganja smoking, you pull out the book and say read and then come talk to me.
Alright for real, you can't chat to me after you read the book.
Because they're going to get their minds blown.
So go out and support this book.
I would also advise everyone in this creation to read the words of his majesty.
The autobiographies of Haile Selassie and the collected speeches of Haile Selassie.
You will be astounded, you will be amazed, your whole life will change and you will see what Rastafari is dealing with and what Rastafari is truly really about.
Yes I, he's a wonderful man, he's the most wonderful man I've ever seen and I've ever known.
Yes I, I love my father and I love my mother and there is no disrespect to them, neither my grandfather, neither my grandmother.
Because Haile Selassie is from the end of days until no more time.
See and he's from creation and he's the living Jah upon this earth.
Haile Selassie, Jah Rastafari.
Music man.
Smoking session.
Singing.
Singing.
Singing.
Singing.
Singing.
Singing.
Singing.
Watch me brother, give me a one drop papa.
Escort service, give me a proper one drop.
For real, right now.
Ah, the hard yard really come from Jamaica
And tell you that you got some black ganja
It's in Hawaii, it's in Alaska
It's in China, India, Africa
Let the rapper tell me you promote ganja
You'll have to find it with the whole world over
Flatbush people and Flatbush media
Come to Portland to go for the ganja
When we come here, you'll smell it proper
Escort service, you'll do it higher
When we run out, you'll run mocha
You'd rather have a baby up on the rasta
I'm famous
Pony!
Yes, I exist.
Lovely.
Lovely.
I want to...
Hey, make some noise for Ponyboy and Los Marihuanas.
I don't know all the bands and all the groups that play.
So this is not like I'm forgetting anyone.
This is just, I'm gonna pick up who I know.
Make some noise for the herbivores, y'all.
For real.
Make some noise for humans.
Yes, I.
This is a really wonderful show.
And if I knew everyone's name, I would name everyone right now.
For real.
And I would like to know everyone personally.
I think that's the best situation to travel the world
and to make bredrin and sistin with everyone.
Yes, I.
