We are here today to celebrate hemp and cannabis.
And we're also happy to announce the launch of a campaign to put this thing back on the ballot.
Last November, we got 47% of the vote statewide.
61% right here in Multnomah County.
63% in Portland.
So Portland loves cannabis.
We might as well just take the R out of Portland right now.
But, you know, we just launched, we got approval yesterday afternoon at 445
to circulate our petition to legalize marijuana.
And we have two petitions.
One is a statutory measure, that's a law.
And the other one's a constitutional amendment.
So it says, our constitutional amendment basically says that you can possess, use, and grow marijuana
and the state can enact laws to regulate the sale of marijuana to adults.
And then the statutory measure is almost exactly like Measure 80 last year
with a couple of changes to make our opposition's arguments disappear to a certain degree.
You know, it looks possible at this stage that next February,
our Oregon legislature will put a bill out there and refer a bill to regulate marijuana to the people.
But if they don't, then we've got two initiatives ready to go.
If the legislature puts a bill out there, we will stop our statutory measure
and just move forward with our constitutional one.
But we can't, you know, we're trying to put pressure on them to act.
Maybe they will.
And several legislators have said they want to.
But so far, we don't have any guarantees.
But we have a guarantee that if we get over 82,000 ballot Oregon voter signatures,
we can put that statutory measure on the ballot again.
And if we get over 116,000 signatures, then we can put the constitutional amendment on the ballot.
So we're trying to make the people of our state vote twice to legalize marijuana in 2014.
If the legislature doesn't do it, we will.
You know, for me, pimp, cannabis, marijuana are really the same thing.
A great friend of mine, Kentucky Turnigate Woodgobre, named the people who were really responsible for this,
and it's the petrochemical, pharmaceutical, military, industrial, transnational, corporate, elite, fascist sons of a bitches.
And they sold us that there was a deadly new drug called marijuana.
And it was based on this anti-Hispanic racism that they used this word marijuana.
If they'd said hemp, they never would have been able to criminalize it.
So, you know, they created this to protect the petrochemical and wood fiber industries.
And so they said it was a deadly new drug, but really it's the oldest crop known to man.
All archaeologists agree that marijuana has been cultivated at least 12,000 years and maybe over 30,000 years.
You know, the first agricultural crop, it might be the very reason that our ancestors gave up the hunter-gatherer way of life
and started planting plants so they could have a stash.
And they found frozen remains in tombs where the people are buried or die carrying their herb with them
the same way I will be found carrying my herb with me.
But the truth of the matter is that it's really about fuel and fiber.
The drugs are just a smoke screen.
It's really about money, power, and the continued centralization of economic and political control.
So our initiatives are out there and we need you to get involved.
Go right over to the booth with the American flags.
Sign that petition, please.
If you're not registered to vote, get registered to vote.
We've got to register and vote and take this system back.
And the more of us that register, the sooner that will happen.
I also want to thank all our vendors out there who've come out here and made this all possible.
We ran into a lot of roadblocks. It cost us a lot of money at the last minute.
The city actually came forward and required that we hire 30 additional security people.
They told us last week.
They also said we have to pay $4,000 plus for a parking patrol to give us tickets out on the street.
They basically dropped $30,000 worth of bills on us at the last minute trying to say,
if you don't do it, no permit.
Well, we did it. We put it together.
But I just want you to know it takes a lot of volunteer effort, a lot of volunteer work.
And as several people have said from this stage, freedom isn't free.
It's constantly being assaulted and it's two steps forward and one step back.
Right now we're seeing some steps forward.
The votes in Washington and Colorado have changed the whole dynamic.
We got 47% of the vote last November,
but recent polls have shown that the support for cannabis legalization now is up over 63%.
So we put something on the ballot. They know we're going to win next time.
People are educated. So help us do that.
Get involved. Register to vote. Help us circulate this petition.
And help us restore HIP. Thank you.
