Probably be at least another year, year and a half before we see stores open in Washington, Colorado.
What do you think in terms of your state, Agua?
Well, I believe that 5 nanograms is a totally inappropriate standard.
That's for driving?
And for, yeah, driving. To the 5 nanograms because, I don't know if your cameras can get this.
We can get a camera to close in on that. They're trying.
Okay, but 5 nanograms is a totally inappropriate standard because at 5 nanograms a driver is still 5% safer than a totally sober driver.
Now, okay, so you can see the line, the lower line is the 5 nanogram level.
This is, let's see, this is sober driver and there's 5 nanograms.
You find that at 2.5 nanograms a driver is 30% safer than a sober driver.
And at 5 nanograms they're still 5% safer than a sober driver.
So they should not be punished for being at that level.
That's the detectable level and in Colorado they're attempting, and they don't have it in place yet,
they're attempting to establish that the presence of 5 nanograms of THC is used as evidence of other drug use.
And they're basing that on the Washington Law which just kind of plucked it out of the air.
It's totally inappropriate.
Alcohol, this is the level of impairment at, you know, 0.8.
At 0.08 blood alcohol there's a lot of evidence that drivers are 6 to 10 times more likely to be in an accident or traffic fatality.
So this is the level of impairment that corresponds to 0.08 blood alcohol.
The voters said that they wanted to regulate marijuana like alcohol.
This is the level of impairment.
If somebody's impaired to this level they should not be on the road no matter why.
And that was Colorado's law. That was the actual name of it.
Regulate marijuana like alcohol.
That was the main central battle cry. That's what voters were calling for.
Yeah, and that's Amendment 64 in Colorado.
That's right.
And so it's an amendment to the Colorado Constitution.
Doesn't that give it a lot of extra weight in judicial proceedings?
Well, it means that anything that departs from regulating marijuana like alcohol is a violation of the Colorado State Constitution.
But I don't want to wait until you go to an appellate court in order for this to be torn down.
It should be stopped where it is.
But it hasn't passed in Colorado's legislature yet.
Correct. The Senate voted it down.
They said they're very concerned about impaired drivers, but they're more concerned about punishing non-impaired drivers.
