Well, I think it's very interesting that we know from historical records that cannabis
has been used for literally thousands of years and nobody has ever reported any bad effects
from the use of it.
And when you compare that to tobacco or to alcohol, there's absolutely no comparison
between tobacco, alcohol, and marijuana.
There's just absolutely none whatsoever.
And the statement that marijuana is a gateway drug to heroin or cocaine or whatever, this
was verbally thriced by the Institute of Medicine.
They said there was no evidence whatsoever that this was the case.
So I think the main thing that we're doing is supporting General McCafferty and a whole
bunch of DEA agents who are making very high salaries and don't want to give up the game,
you might say.
So the people that are making money on the marijuana issue are the DEA agents.
So I guess the federal prisons, the guards in the prisons are probably also recipients
of a lot of money from the marijuana business.
It's really a strange, absolutely bizarre situation that this has gone on.
And I can't understand why some of these politicians in Washington, D.C. and elsewhere can't see
this or understand it or whatever the right word is.
I don't understand it.
I was a battalion scout and point man.
Any of you guys are veterans, you know what the hell a point man means.
The life expectancy is about 30 minutes or so, something like that.
And I was in a war history writing class with about 10 Vietnam guys and I told them that
I was a point man and scout.
They says, oh no, you weren't.
And I says, goddammit, yes I was.
And they says, nah, you weren't.
If you were, you'd be dead.
So here I am, mean as hell, and so forth.
How many of you read the story in the Oregonian last week about the DEA trying to get hold
of your patient's charts?
How many of you, raise your hands.
You read that?
Well let me tell you, the DEA skunks and the local cops are all going crazy because you
bastards have permits to use marijuana.
When the board took away my license in November three years ago, I was really disgusted with
this because they thought that they were punishing me.
They were not punishing me, they were punishing my 4,000 patients.
And I get the idea that they were trying to stop the medical marijuana program.
Marijuana is the best drug we have found so far for the treatment of PTSD.
And within the last month, I just wrote an article that marijuana prevents PTSD suicides.
And I got about a thousand comments on it from all over the country.
Well you know, I was in the military but I didn't see combat.
But I do know as a marijuana user that when I smoke marijuana, I don't have dreams.
And when I quit using marijuana, after a couple of days, I start to have some very vivid dreams.
So obviously, the use of marijuana will help.
That is one of the worst symptoms of PTSD.
And you probably wouldn't imagine what the second most important symptom is.
What's that?
Not being able to talk about what was your worst experience.
Tell me about your worst experience.
Bang!
So did you feel that way after World War II?
I know you went through a lot of very traumatic experiences.
Fighting your way into Germany, meeting up with the Russians there.
My first day, I was committed to combat.
I got in an artillery barrage that just blew the hell out of the little town where I was.
And the next day, they hit me with a mortar barrage.
And when we crossed the Rhine River, I got strafed by German planes, I got strafed by
American planes.
We lost 150 men in less than an hour.
Out of how many?
150 out of?
Out of our battalion.
And a battalion is what?
About a thousand.
About a thousand.
So 150 out of a thousand.
That's pretty heavy attrition rate.
15% in an hour.
We had the, my battalion, my division, had the worst casualties crossing the Rhine River.
