So here we go, we got a few different things here.
This is actually a box and a bottle set.
It's old, it's about 105 years old.
It's made in New Jersey and it's Rev,
our father D. Elissie's cough medicine,
good for coughs, cold, bronchitis, whooping cough,
asthma, hay fever, and all afflictions
of the throat and lungs.
And it's been, according to the literature
that's falling apart that it's been coming with,
it's been found to bring relief to the most stubborn cases
among friends and their children.
And it's found in all cases to be a health builder
and strengthening remedy and wonderful medicine
within the reach of all.
So no one should be denied its restoring compounds,
according to this falling apart literature that comes with it.
But Dr. Elissie, I mean, Father, excuse me,
Father Elissie's cough medicine's also embossed
on the back with Father Elissie's
and down here at the bottom, it says what's in it.
And I don't know if you can see that.
Oh, that's really good.
You're doing a good job.
It contains opium, Indian cannabis, heroin, alcohol,
and chloroform.
So Father D. Elissie will give you
a good dose of mixture of opium, Indian cannabis, heroin, alcohol,
and chloroform.
So what is it?
Smacking good.
Notice it says right here, it's used by Father Elissie
for years.
And it also says over here, never known to fail.
It's never been known to fail.
I'm sure it hasn't.
So what does a bottle like that cost?
You know, our foundation got it for a little bit over $500.
And it's sealed.
And we will never open this because it's part of our museum.
That's about $100 a shot.
Never mind.
We're turning you down.
We're not opening that.
You got money right there.
No, this is a museum piece.
We're not opening it.
Right next door.
Now, this is 1905, circa 1905, Father D. Elissie's magic cough
remedy.
Right next to it, we have a tincture bottle from the 1880s.
We've seen this in the past.
It's got the label under glass or lug.
Next to it, one of my favorite supplements, hemp seed oil.
I order this through Hemp Oil Canada.
And it's very nifty.
As we were talking about, you can get 300 gallons of oil.
And the byproduct of that is this flour, and high-protein flour.
Prairie Emerald hemp flour is protein-enriched, gluten-free,
whole-grain flour that imparts the nutty flavor of hemp into a wide
variety of baked goods.
Hemp flour is an excellent source of protein, containing all the
essential amino acids.
Hemp flour is very high in dietary fiber and a good source of energy
for people on the go.
So there it is, hemp flour.
Next, we see hemp nuggets.
Now, these have been hulled.
These are hemp seeds that have been roasted.
And the outer crunchy little coats have been taken off.
And it's a lot like a cross between cashews and walnuts or pecans.
It's got this initial cashew-y, buttery flavor.
And then it kind of after flavor of pecans or walnuts.
And Tim, you want to talk about, you got our thing of hemp seed milk here.
This is really good stuff.
You introduced this to me a few weeks back, and you've been bringing it on the
show, and I got to take one home a few weeks back.
I really enjoyed it.
Put it in the refrigerator, cooled it down, and I just really liked it.
It's got all of the omega-3.
It's got 2,800 milligrams of omega-6.
It's got all 10 essential amino acids.
It's got 4 grams of digestible protein, essential vitamins A, B12, DE,
riboflavin, and folic acid, which is very important.
And...
These vitamin Bs are important.
The essential minerals, magnesium, potassium, phosphorus, iron, and good old
zinc.
So I got to tell you, it tastes good and it's good for you.
You know what...
How about that?
And then we have the ginger and hemp granola.
That's a new one out there.
I just found out in a health food store ginger and granola.
You know, we just buy this stuff out there once I see it and bring it on the
show here.
So you folks out there know about the diversity of products that are available
out there.
And so go out there and sample some hemp products.
If not these, try some others.
You'll be amazed at how good they are for you.
