Well I must say it's been an honor to know Gatewood the number of years that I've known
him.
I met him back, it was Earth Day and it was 1991 and we were filming segments for Tying
for Hemp in San Francisco.
We'd gone up to San Francisco, Ed Rosenthal wanted to be a guest on the show and we had
anticipated spending the day filming a big interview with Ed and going over his library
of books that he'd written.
And about an hour before I and the camera crew and the sound crew got there, Ed apparently
thought it would be a good time to drop two hits of acid.
So there wasn't much to interview at that point.
So we went down to Earth Day a little early and Jack Harris said that a friend of his
by the name of Gatewood Galbraith was going to be around and we should try to make it
a point to get Gatewood on the program as a guest.
And he said that Gatewood was running for governor of Kentucky and I said he's what?
He said he's running for governor of Kentucky and he smokes pot?
And Jack Harris said yeah and he'll make a great guest so you should make it a point
to talk with him.
Those of you who have known me a long time may know that my family has a political background
in the state of Indiana.
My mom was the first female to be president of the county council in our area and in the
history of Delaware County and she broke a lot of ground.
She was a woman's liver as we called them back then and she taught me at an early age
the importance of one standing up for yourself and being who you are and true to yourself
which Gatewood represented as a candidate and she taught me the ins and outs of politics
and I knew after hanging out with Jack Harris that even though he had the truth about making
paper and fiber and fuel out of this fantastic plant that unless you make a change in Congress
or you make a change in the Senate you're not going to get a whole lot done.
You're just going to be educating people about the truth.
And when I heard that we had somebody from the marijuana movement running for governor
of a state that impressed me and to that point I had known Jack Harris and the intellectual
aspects of this plant, of the history of this entire travesty.
And we had worked on the California Hemp Initiative and I saw with Jack Harris how through politics
you can make a change.
But the idea at that time when Gatewood was running for governor coming out of the closet
about smoking marijuana and talking about using the revenue that comes from generating
taxes from creating industries that are built on making fabulous products from this plant
and how we were saving the environment and how we were saving dollars.
It all made sense and suddenly not only did we have Jack Harris knowledge we had the sensibility
of Gatewood Galbraith as a candidate.
Now another aspect about Gatewood unlike a lot of us in the marijuana movement when I
came into the marijuana movement I came in because Jack Harris needed somebody to run
his office while he went on the road to talk about paper, fiber and fuel.
Jack came into the movement because some lady introduced it to him and he wanted to
smoke it and it was like that's how you made the book about getting high high and you've
all heard that story.
Gatewood came into it because his grandfather and his great grandfather and his great great
grandfather and his great great great grandfather and I think the people who knew Jesus in your
family all grew marijuana.
But they didn't grow it to get high.
They grew it to make oil, they grew it to make rope, they grew it to make papers, they
grew it as an industry and as they were doing so they were making an environment that was
considered one of the wealthiest commonwealths in the history of the United States.
So here I had somebody from the belly of the beast getting ready to sit down and talk to
me for the first time in a very rational intellectual way that I've never been dealt
with before on my level in politics.
My level meaning the voter.
The person who's going to be voting in New York, Kentucky, Maine.
Somebody who works on candidates, campaigns and knows how to put together the importance
of all the fine points of how we get a candidate elected and all the key reasons.
He didn't come in here and go like we want to get high, which we do.
By the way those of you who are very comfortable knowing that we've outlawed this plant because
it keeps those of us from getting high, no it just keeps you from getting taxes from
us getting high.
Gatewood talks sensibility.
The interview that I did with Gatewood when I showed it to my parents, very conservative
Midwesterns running for office, my mom very well known in politics on a state wide level,
very active campaigner, they were blown away.
Their comment was this man should be governor of Kentucky.
When I got done talking with Gatewood for the very first time it made sense to me that
he should be governor of any state.
He was the first person who was actually talking dollars and cents, get rid of the smoke and
noise industries and bring in the green industry.
What do you hear now?
I almost wanted to throw up in my own mouth when I heard Al Gore stand before Congress
and talk about getting rid of the smoke and noise industry and bring in the green industry
and he said everything that Gatewood said except for one word, hemp.
When President Obama addressed the United States after this horrific spill in the Gulf,
he stood before America and promised to set us free from foreign oil, that we were going
to take care of the problems that developed this mess off of our shores and he said everything
that Gatewood Galbraith has been saying for 20 years except for one word, hemp.
I get a little agitated when I talk about our politicians because it's too late now
for any politician to stand up in front of me and you and anybody else in this country
and say oh I didn't know that you can make paper and fiber and fuel out of this plant.
No I had no idea we were spending this much money putting all these people away behind
bars when we should take that money and put it into the school systems.
My gosh I had no clue to this travesty because people like Gatewood Galbraith has been standing
on the corners of every street corner in this nation saying the truth along with Jack Herr,
along with Dr. Todd Macaria and Keith Straub and every other hard working activist that
has known the truth for 20 years.
So when someone like Gatewood Galbraith says to me he's running for office, for governor
of the state of Kentucky and it's his intention to take this plant, the revenue from this
plant and generate from it jobs that will benefit those people living in Kentucky.
The revenue will help benefit schools for the children going there to get their brains
fed in Kentucky.
It's going to take care of the health care problems for the senior citizens that are
facing a federal bankruptcy of our social security in 13 years in Kentucky.
That he has a solution to the problems in Kentucky that will ultimately bring forward
a solution to the problems in America.
I believe him.
He handed out 20 years ago a book to everybody who would pay mind to it, the Marijuana Feasibility
Study.
How you would take this plant, put it into our economy, begin to take it, put it into
fuels by just changing the car a little bit here, by putting it into the papers and the
fibers and the fuels and making the jobs and the revenue and the taxes and how we would
stop putting the money into the prison system and into the court systems and we could save
the taxpayer and we would have a beautiful society that was designed to educate our citizens
and stimulate creativity and to bring forward an environment low on crime.
That would not cost the taxpayers a large amount of money.
I believe him.
He spoke to me as a voter looking for solutions to horrific problems that laid at my feet
and the feet of my children.
That was the impact that I had from Gatewood Galbraith when he sat down and took time for
him.
Now when Gatewood took time for Casper over the years as a friend, amazing.
I've had it with the planet sometimes and I would call Gatewood up and say I can't take
it the world's beat me and I get off the phone and I got it, I'm regenerated, I'm okay.
Gatewood's been there when I said Gatewood the world loves me today, it's been a good
day.
And as a friend we've laughed and I know the merit of this man, the character of this
man and there hasn't been a time that this man has let me down as a friend or as a citizen
of my nation.
The one thing I am most baffled by is how it is he has not been elected yet to the seat
of the governor of Kentucky.
He speaks rational, he speaks truth, he speaks plain English and anybody who's going to go
and put their vote on any candidate is looking for someone who speaks the truth in plain
English.
That's why I've never understood how it is a man who had the answers to the problems
the state faces has yet been able to do so.
Now our country is facing a horrific time.
We know that by the end of May over half of the United States is in bankruptcy.
Over 20 states have already filed bankruptcy.
State stimuluses are going belly up, the federal stimulus are being taken from the states and
they don't know what to do.
And by July, August another 10 or 15 will be filing bankruptcy.
By the end of the year maybe all but three will go under.
We are cutting funds for our children's educations.
I hear every day when I wake up, we're closing schools here in Oregon, we're shutting down
libraries in California, we're cutting members off the police department in Iowa, oh my gosh
we're laying off state workers in Ohio.
I hear how our nation was held hostage by our Congress because they couldn't figure
out this handful of money on this budget that equaled to what they spend on the war on drugs.
What I don't hear from anybody but people like Gatewood and Ron Paul and Dennis Kucinich,
what I don't hear from my Congress, what I don't hear from my Senate are answers.
Answers that have been given to them in plain English in a book and books by Jack Hare,
books called the feasibility study by Gatewood Galbraith, books by Ed Rosenthal, books by
Ethan Maitlman.
Don't tell me you're stupid.
Don't play me as stupid.
That's why every time Gatewood says he's running for governor, I always say I expect to be
in the governor's office with you on election day.
