Thank you folks, thanks for coming out. I want to thank the folks who have put this on,
from Madeline Martinez and Ralph Martinez, from Michael Beccara, Paul Loney, Stoney Girls,
the folks who sponsor this, and thank you all for coming out here to represent cannabis.
You know, this is happening in 300 different cities around the world, so it's a global movement.
And in Santiago, Chile, they actually have 450,000 people marching through the street,
and about 150,000 in Buenos Aires. And once in Berlin, they had over a million people,
but it all started about 45 years ago in New York City. And so we're carrying on a tradition,
and I always like to say, you know, we're all motivated by cannabis. Cannabis is something that
adds to the quality of our life, and that we enjoy, and it shouldn't be illegal. Even the
current regulations are over regulation, and so we have farther to go. It's good that some people
are not going to jail for cannabis today, and some businesses are making money, but everyone
should benefit from this plant. We should be able to grow fields of it for its seed,
without over regulation. And that's the whole reason marijuana is illegal. Drugs have always
just been a smoke screen. It's always been about fuel, and fiber, and money, and power,
and a continued centralization of economic and political control. So you know, cannabis is the
oldest crop. People began cultivating it at least 15,000 years ago, and maybe more than twice that
long. Agriculture itself started because of cannabis. It's no other crop that we know of
today was being cultivated earlier than that. And by 12,000 years ago, its cultivation spread from
its indigenous area up in the high Himalayas, around Afghanistan, and Tibet, and Kashmir. It
had already spread to the Mediterranean basin, and they were cultivating it in modern-day Italy,
way before the Romans, or even the Etruscans had a civilization. Cannabis was being cultivated
there in present-day Italy, and all around the Mediterranean. So our culture and civilization
were based on a cannabis culture, and in fact, we have co-evolved with cannabis over the past 25,
35,000 years that we've made cannabis evolve for us, and we have evolved for cannabis, where today
the protein profile of hemp seed perfectly matches humans' nutritional needs for protein,
and exactly the right balance of amino acids, the eight essential amino acids. So the oil creates
essential fatty acids. It mimics the endocannabinoid system that was just discovered
here in the past 25 years. So this is the oldest crop, and it's the most productive, you know, and
the main reason it's illegal is because the petrochemical, pharmaceutical, military, industrial,
transnational, corporate, elite, fascist, sons of a bitches in the ruling class gave us the lies,
the racist lies about cannabis, using a word from Mexican slang, marijuana, that was used during the
Mexican Revolutionary War over 100 years ago. They made it illegal. If they had called it hemp,
they never would have made it illegal, because everybody knew what hemp was. It's only because
they used this new term, and they claimed it was a deadly new drug. It's something that caused
people to go crazy and kill their family and friends. Well, we see that in that movie, Reefer
Madness, and Marijuana Assassin of Youth from back at those times, but we know that was just
malarkey. And so this is the safest therapeutically active substance known to man, according to
Francis Young, an administrative law judge for the United States federal government back 30 years ago.
He's dead now, but he said marijuana is the safest therapeutically active substance known to man.
No one has ever died from marijuana. So I'm glad you're out here to march for cannabis.
Thank you for turning out. I'll be marching out there with you. Remember, help us restore hemp.
