It's time for Cannabis Common Sense, the show that tells you the truth about marijuana and
the politics behind its prohibition.
And now, the host of your show, to tell you the truth about marijuana and the politics
behind its prohibition, let's welcome Paul Stanford.
Hello and welcome to another exciting edition of Cannabis Common Sense.
As you may know, Cannabis Common Sense is a production of our political committee, Campaign for the Restoration and Regulation of Hemp.
And that's CRRH for short.
And if you are aware, we are circulating a petition and a referendum at this time.
The petition, our initiative, is the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act that would license farmers to grow the drug marijuana for sale to the OLCC.
The OLCC would sell it through its liquor store system and put it in bars and taverns that got a license to carry it.
And it would also put it in pharmacies at cost.
It would tax the recreational use of marijuana through the liquor stores, the bars and taverns and smoking establishments.
But the marijuana sold through the pharmacies would not be taxed.
And that would be with the doctor's prescription.
So if you're registered to vote, we need you.
Give us a call. Get our petitions. Sign the petitions. Sign the referendum.
The referendum is different from the initiative.
It is a legislative bill that was enacted by the legislature.
It hasn't gone into effect yet.
It will recriminalize the simple possession of under an ounce of marijuana, which has been legal here in Oregon for the past 24 years, since 1973.
And if we get enough signatures by early October to put this on the ballot for a vote in November of 1998,
then the law will not take effect in October of 1997, as it's currently scheduled to do.
It will be held in abeyance, and its eventual outcome would be decided by the people in a vote in November 1998.
We need your help to get signatures.
If you're registered to vote, give us a call.
Or if you aren't registered to vote and you're living in Oregon, register to vote.
Because if you don't vote, the people who want to put us in prison will.
So give us a call, 235-4606.
That's in Portland, Oregon.
If you're outside of the Portland area, dial 1-503-235-4606.
We need your help.
I'd like to welcome Donna MacPherson back for another episode.
Thanks for coming, Donna.
Okay, thank you.
And Donna's a long-time activist, the treasurer of Portland Normal,
Portland's branch of the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws.
Normal is proud to announce that we register more voters than any other organization in this state.
That's right.
And we would like to register you.
If you're not registered, let us know.
Exactly.
You know, the initiative campaigns in Oregon actually have registered more voters
than the Democrats and the Republicans combined.
So we're out there in the streets contacting people and registering our constituents.
And we're trying to get them out to vote so that we'll have a bigger impact on the entire political process,
not just the drug policy debate.
Well, as I tell people, if they bust you, they don't care whether you're registered or not.
That's true.
So you better be registered.
Then you might be able to have some effect.
Yeah, and if you are busted, you can still register to vote.
You know, in other parts of the country, you can't register to vote if you've been convicted of a felony.
And a lot of people here in Oregon are under the misperception that they can't register to vote.
Some of the people I like to register the most when I'm out in the street petitioning
are people who don't think they can register to vote because of the laws.
Have you run into that, Donna, where people said, I can't vote?
Oh, well, yes, you can.
Every time that I have collected signatures at one of our events,
people will come along and say, well, I really wish I could sign your petition, but I can't.
I'm not registered.
And I say, well, we could register you.
I say, I can't register.
I'm a felon.
I said, doesn't matter.
Here in Oregon, felons, well, not in jail, but when they're on probation or parole,
they've served their time and done their debt to society.
They can register and vote and should do so.
They're going to be affected by laws.
They should have definitely a say in producing them.
So give us a call.
If you have access to the web, you can get our petitions right off the Internet on your own home printer,
assuming you have an inkjet printer or with waterproof ink or a laser printer.
You can just print them right there in your home.
You don't even have to wait for us to send them to you.
Our web address is www.crrh.org.
Now, Donna, you've been a member of a local club called the Alternative Health Center.
That's right.
And that's a club that allows the medicinal access to marijuana.
And even though it's illegal currently, the people who are running the club,
and you're not really involved on that level,
but the people who are running the club are taking a great risk to themselves, aren't they?
Oh, they certainly are.
I mean, running the club, you are, as far as the police are concerned, you're distributing.
And they could be arrested for distribution,
but they believe that it's so important to get marijuana to people who need it,
that it's worth running that risk.
And they're running that risk every day, and as are their patients.
I know quite a lot of the patients at the Alternative Health Center,
and your heart goes out to these people.
I mean, a lot of them have cancer, are in chemotherapy, they've lost their hair, they've lost...
I met a man the other day who had just had his arm removed two weeks previously
because he had had cancer in the bone right here.
A lot of people with AIDS are there who are taking, you know, people with AIDS take a real large number of drugs.
The new protease inhibitors evidently are doing a wonderful thing about their effect on the AIDS virus,
but they also make people really sick.
They can't eat.
They can't eat, they lose weight.
You can die from that too.
Right. They call that the wasting syndrome for people who have AIDS,
and many AIDS patients say the only thing that helps keep them alive,
where they can increase their appetite, is by using cannabis and marijuana to combat the wasting syndrome
that accompanies the use of all those pharmaceutical drugs.
And it's also an appetite stimulator for people who are undergoing chemotherapy with cancer,
and people who are undergoing cancer treatment find that by using marijuana,
it stimulates their appetite for that week after chemotherapy when they can't keep anything down.
It stops nausea.
You know, there are several different medicinal products in cannabis.
There's THC or tetrahydrocannabinol.
THC is the substance that combats nausea.
It stops nausea, increases appetite,
lowers interocular pressure.
There are other, and it's actually available pharmaceutically, but for oral.
That's Marinol, right?
Yeah, it's Marinol.
And it's available pharmaceutically, but taking it orally is really difficult if you're nauseous.
Really?
They'll throw up three or four of them, and those pills are not cheap.
Yes, I've heard they're very expensive.
The little pills cost $6, and the big ones cost $18 or $20.
Oh my gosh.
If you're sick and you throw up three or four $20 pills, you better either be rich or have good health insurance.
That's for sure.
And unfortunately, in the case of a lot of people, they don't have that.
But they find that by just taking two or three puffs of good marijuana, that they're able to keep food down.
They're able to keep liquids down, and they're not throwing up.
And that's what THC does, and it lowers interocular pressure.
It's probably the most psychoactive ingredient in cannabis as well.
Now there's another constituent of cannabis, cannibinol, and that is CBD.
And CBD is just slightly psychoactive, not so much as THC, and it is an antispastic agent.
So people who have multiple sclerosis find that that portion of the chemical mix in marijuana, that helps them.
And people who have multiple sclerosis, anything that causes them to go into spasms, they find that use of CBD is very useful.
But that is not pharmaceutically available.
It's only available in the black market.
There's also one other constituent of cannabis or marijuana, and that's cannabichromy, or CBC.
CBC is not psychoactive at all, but it has an anti-infection property.
It lowers temperatures for some people.
It stops the onset of fever and has some other medicinal properties.
So cannabis isn't just one or two constituents.
It's a variety of them, and a lot of them have different medical effects.
That's true.
I know several patients who either have multiple sclerosis and are in wheelchairs or have had injuries and are paralyzed from wherever down.
One person I know particularly is paralyzed from the waist down.
He says that if you are in this situation, you have spasms in your limbs that you cannot control, and also that pain can suddenly strike anywhere.
Evidently, if you interfere with the spinal cord, you have no control over what the nerves are going to be doing.
Smoking marijuana, he said, is better than any drug he'd ever taken for both calming the spasms and for making the pain go away.
We at the Campaign for the Restoration and Regulation of Hemp are not involved with the Alternative Health Center, the club here in Portland.
There are also clubs in other parts of the country, especially in California now with the passage of Proposition 215 that allowed medical marijuana down there.
But we refer people that ask about it to the club, and we don't have a problem with that.
We are happy to see a patient that needs this to have access to this medicine.
We wonder why the state has imposed itself between the doctor and the patient.
Which would you prefer to decide your medical issue?
Should it be your doctor? Should it be you personally?
Or should it be the police officer who wants to seize your property because you might own a house?
I think the answer is pretty clear.
With the recriminalization of marijuana bill that's passed, that we're circulating a petition to try to stop,
the police said that this was their number one priority, the top priority that they had.
With all the murderers and rapists and thieves out there, they're making this their top priority?
Didn't they solve those problems?
That doesn't happen anymore in the state?
They still have murders? Robberies?
My God. A little arson here and there?
We know here in Portland that if you have your house robbed or your car stolen, police don't even visit you anymore.
They send you a form in the mail.
So they say that this is their top priority and that the real reason they want to do this,
even according to the governor of the state, when he issued a press release,
was so that he could expand the powers of police search and seizure.
He said that this has less to do with marijuana as it does with expanding the powers of police search and seizure.
You know, I was really disappointed in Governor Kitzhaber.
When I voted for him, I thought he was a progressive Democrat,
had good ideas about what to do with this state.
It was my impression that he had decided to veto this bill because the state couldn't afford it.
If it can't afford to keep the libraries in Portland open,
it can't afford to employ the amount of teachers it takes to teach our children,
it can't afford to create more shelters for domestic violence victims.
I mean, I thought that the state could not afford to incarcerate a bunch of pot smokers.
I thought the governor thought that too.
What happened to him?
I ran into the governor when I was down working in Salem and lobbying against this bill.
The governor told me personally when I ran into him at a coffee stand.
I was there to get an espresso drink, a drug, at the drug stand.
There you go.
At the open air drug market right in front of the state capitol,
they were selling caffeine beverages.
And these caffeine laced beverages.
Extra strong ones sometimes I bet too.
You can get whatever strength you want.
You know, you want double dose, triple dose?
They'll sell them to you at these open air caffeine markets.
And the governor was there in line waiting for his caffeine laced drink.
As I was going up to get my caffeine laced drink, my coffee, espresso, mocha actually.
I don't drink coffee, I drink mocha.
And there he was and I couldn't resist.
This rare once in a lifetime opportunity.
I mean who could resist, Paul?
I was supposed, you know, I'd been trying to stop this recriminalization bill.
I thought I would never get to see the governor.
They wouldn't let me see him.
I run into him at the coffee stand.
I say, Governor Kitzhaber.
This was early April.
I said, Governor Kitzhaber, I'd like to take this opportunity to urge you to veto House Bill 3643.
Well, it hadn't been passed by either house of the legislature at that point.
But it looked pretty certain to pass.
There were a lot of different interests that were backing it.
Everyone in the Republican Party, and they held control of both houses, unanimously supported it.
Well, one Senator Lim out in Gresham opposed it, one Republican.
But anyway, the governor turned.
And he goes, well, okay.
I said, Governor, I want to urge you to veto House Bill 3643.
The governor said, well, which one is that?
I said, that's the one that would recriminalize possession of marijuana.
The governor got his drink from the man.
He turned around and he looked at me and he says, you know, we really don't have the money for that.
And I'm going to veto it.
That's what he said.
He says, we really don't have the money for that.
And I'm going to veto it.
Well, I couldn't agree more.
I was happy.
But in the end, the governor claimed that he reluctantly signed it.
And he said it wasn't because of possession of marijuana, but that in fact it was to expand the police powers of search and seizure.
Well, we need to send a message to the governor and the legislature.
And you can do that by getting our petitions.
Get the referendum petition.
Give us a call at 235-4606.
That's 235-4606.
We'll get you the referendum.
We've got to get 50,000 good registered Oregon voter signatures by October 3rd of this year, 1997.
And if we do, it will stop it from going into effect.
It's not much time at all.
You might be seeing this show in September.
I'm not sure.
Maybe even afterwards.
But if we don't get enough signatures by then, we're still circulating the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act,
which would legalize the sale of marijuana to adults over 21.
It would allow doctors to prescribe marijuana to patients through pharmacies at cost.
It would tax the recreational marijuana that's sold in liquor stores and bars and coffee shops.
And it would also legalize industrial hemp so that farmers can grow industrial hemp for production of thousands of different products,
everything from paper and fabric and building materials from the stems of the marijuana plant
to oil for food and energy and protein from the hemp seed.
You know, actually, hemp produces more fiber, protein, and oil than any other plant on our planet.
They've taken this plant.
It grows more in the temperate and cooler climates than any other plant on the entire planet.
And they've prohibited this plant.
And to me, I believe that that is truly evil, to take a plant that produces more fiber, protein, and oil and say,
oh, you can't grow that one, folks, because we want to sell you petroleum.
We want to sell you pesticide-laced cotton.
We want to cut down all the forests and make them build building materials.
That's what really bothers me is to think that they're not only cutting down trees for timber and things like that.
I can understand that.
But they're cutting down trees to make paper.
Right. Paper was invented for hemp.
You can make better paper from hemp than you can from wood anyway.
Yeah. Paper was actually invented for hemp.
And it's a renewable resource.
It's an annual. It grows every year.
You don't have to, like, grow a crop for, like, 60 years and have streams running through it and animals living in the trees and all that and then cut them down.
You can grow it like wheat.
And it rejuvenates the soil.
Really?
Really.
Hemp has a very long tap root, and it draws up subsoil nutrients.
And when the leaves fall off and go back into the soil, it brings those nutrients up from the minerals below and puts them into the soil for other plants to use.
So it's a very good plant for breaking soil and for revitalizing soil in a crop harvest.
And it will grow anywhere.
So you're talking about green hemp growing in a swamp condition in China.
In China, in fact, they invented paper 2,000 years ago from hemp.
And the first cloth and textiles were made from hemp.
All archaeologists agree that hemp was one of the first plants purposely cultivated by man.
There are three other plants that they can't distinguish which one was the very first one, but all archaeologists agree that hemp was definitely among the first plants.
You're talking about the plant that perhaps agriculture was invented to service men's need for hemp for both medicine, protein, fiber, and oil.
And the plant that produces more of this protein, fiber, and oil.
To me, that's just a travesty.
We've got to change that.
A plant that's as useful as hemp, you wonder why.
They would make it illegal.
I mean, it baffles me.
Well, you know, the American Medical Association actually went into Congress in 1937.
A doctor Woodard and testified that they should not criminalize hemp.
That cannabis had many medicinal properties and that what they were saying marijuana caused.
At the time, they said smoking any marijuana would cause you to go crazy and kill your family and friends.
They actually laid out documents that.
And the doctor, the lobbyist for the American Medical Association, told the Congressional Committee that that's not true.
That those things aren't so.
And he opposed it.
And several legislators harassed this doctor and told him he shouldn't be trying to stop lawmakers at work.
And then when it came to a full vote in the House of Representatives,
one senator from that committee stood up and lied and said that that doctor had supported the bill.
When in fact, he had opposed it.
That's amazing.
So, it passed without debate.
Sounds a lot like my mind is made up, don't bother me with the truth.
It was 60 years ago that it happened.
Actually, it was August 2nd, 1937.
So, here it is just over.
A day living in infamy.
So, here we are a little bit more than 60 years later and we're facing a drug war.
Who's the winner in the drug war?
I don't think there are any winners.
Is there any sign that there's going to be a victory yet after 60 years?
I don't think so.
Instead, you see the patients in the Alternative Health Center.
They're facing arrest.
They're in danger of going to jail.
These people are sick.
What kind of care is there going to be for them in jail?
I don't believe that they're going to be able to handle.
How much is it going to cost to care for these people in jail?
How many wheelchairs do they keep in jails?
I don't know, but they want to take them in there and book them and possibly sentence them to up to 30 days if they have an ounce or less.
Now, if the patient can't afford to go and buy marijuana in the black market
and they happen to be growing one or two plants,
well, it's escalated, folks.
That's a class A felony.
It's the same as murder, rape.
It's worse than manslaughter and rape, actually.
It's the equivalent of murder.
Those people have their homes taken away, have their property seized.
They're convicted felons.
They have to go through drug treatment and diversion.
It's really a very horrible system, folks,
and we need to send a message to politicians,
and you can do that by calling us
and getting the referendum to stop the recriminalization of marijuana.
It's a referendum on House Bill 3643,
and we need to get 50,000 signatures by early October.
And you can get the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act.
We need to get 75,000 signatures by July of 1998.
If we get enough signatures,
then they're both on the ballot in November of 1998.
Give us a call at our office here in Portland.
It's 503-235-4606.
You can also download it off the Internet.
We also have a newspaper.
If you come down to our booths,
we're at the Portland and Eugene Saturday Market.
We're at various events.
We'll be at the BITE.
We'll be at the BITE here in Portland in mid-August.
We'll be...
We were at the Rose Festival.
We were at the Rose Festival,
and we'll be at the Rose Festival next year, too.
Of course, that was before the recriminalization happened,
so we weren't carrying it then, but...
The recriminalization petition,
as we're going to tape here in early August,
has only been out for about three weeks now.
But we urge you to give us a call and get in touch with us
and get our petitions,
because the only way we're going to make a difference
is if we get out and show the support
by putting these things on the ballot.
We need your help to do that,
so I urge you to call us today.
Don't delay,
because the next door to be kicked in may be your own.
That's the truth.
It always amazes me, the things they say about what...
Like you were saying that smoking marijuana makes people crazy,
and they were going to kill their friends,
and this kind of thing.
They call that re-formalinus today after that movie.
How many people in this country have smoked marijuana at some time?
Is it 20 million? Is it more?
Well, no.
20 million, they estimate, are regular monthly users or greater.
But the total number, I think, of people who'll admit to it
is about 80 million, or almost half the population.
Even Bill Clinton said he puffed but didn't inhale,
and Newt Gingrich says he smoked marijuana for some period of time.
I believe Al Tiber Gore inhaled as well.
Yeah, when they were college students.
These people didn't ruin their lives.
They didn't start killing their families.
I mean, you know that that's a lie.
I mean, even those of you who don't smoke marijuana yourselves,
you know somebody that does.
And they're just people like anybody else.
They have jobs, they have children, they have homes.
Actually, some studies show that marijuana smokers
have a higher instance of on-time job performance being at work on most days.
Non-marijuana smokers actually have a higher rate of absenteeism,
and I think that's indicative of some of the propaganda.
Most people find that hard to believe.
Well, that's why they don't report it very much in the mainstream media.
But the fact of the matter is that the media manipulates,
certain groups manipulate the media,
particularly the law enforcement people and the folks in the drug treatment industry.
Yeah, that makes me think.
With the referendum, I believe that one of the things is mandatory drug treatment.
The drug treatment industry is going to make a lot of money from this.
They've got to be behind supporting this.
Yeah, and it requires a mandatory diversion project for anyone who's convicted.
And you have your license suspended for six months.
And if you're under 18, you don't get your driver's license until you've turned 18.
And it doesn't matter where you've been arrested with marijuana to have this happen.
You could be in your bedroom.
You could be out in the woods.
You could be anywhere.
And those laws are in effect.
They'll take away your driver's license and make you go into diversion.
You have up to 30 days in jail.
They'll seize your property.
It's really a terrible system.
And we're trying to change that by circulating the referendum and the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act.
So once again, I want to urge you to give us a call.
Help us put the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act on the ballot.
Help us stop the black market.
You know, right now, the main people who are controlling the black market are kids and users,
substance abusers, by and large.
Right, people who abuse other substances besides just marijuana, I'm sure.
And that's the reason that marijuana is labeled by some as a gateway drug.
You know, it's a gateway, but it's a gateway to the black market.
If we take marijuana out of the black market like they have in the Netherlands,
then the rate of use of all drugs is going to decline.
According to a survey that was quoted in the British Medical Journal back in December of 1995,
it's called deglamorizing cannabis.
And that article said that the rate of use of marijuana in the Netherlands by people who are 16 and 17 years old,
people who have legal access, because in the Netherlands you can buy marijuana when you're 16 years old,
that the rate of use is less than one-fifth what it is here in the United States.
That's obviously indicative of the fact that prohibition isn't working.
So we want you to get our petitions.
We want to thank you for calling.
Thanks for being on the show, Donna.
Thank you, Paul.
My pleasure.
Contact us. Get our petitions.
The number, 235-4606.
Help us stop the drug war before they kick in your door.
That's right.
Call us today. Thanks for watching.
Tune in next week.
Have a good time.
