We are a young movement, we were born more than a decade ago.
We have really nourished ourselves from everything that has started here a long time ago.
And we are fighting, we have joined the fight for the re-application of the prohibition of the cannabis plant.
In our case, the governments are following the international norms that the federal governments of this country impose.
These same governments have put us in economic collapse,
in military dictatorships that have brought us disappearances and deaths for more than a generation.
And we are here to leave this message, to be able to move forward,
to tell all of you that every time a state votes in favor of legalization,
it is leaving the same federal government that imposes the prohibition on us all over the world.
So it leaves it in need and every time we gain more land.
So we come to support you and thank you.
We have a lot of respect for the rest of the world.
The federal government sets a policy and it is followed by every single country.
So it is important, we came here to say thank you for this culture that all these years you guys have fought so bad,
had struggled so badly and this is the result.
The result is that we are changing the world with cannabis.
Now we want to encourage you to keep on the hard work because it is not done yet.
We haven't finished yet. We need to finish prohibition.
Prohibition is still incarcerating innocent people in my country like 20,000 per year for nothing,
just for consuming this miracle herb, this healing herb.
So I want to thank all the pioneers here that made this possible, that have been educating us all these years.
Jack Herrera, John Reischafter, Paul Stanford, Jorge Cervantes, Ed Rosenthal, Mickey Norris, Chris Conrad.
Those are our heroes. We follow them.
Thank you for the culture. Thank you for constructing this bridge over to South America, to the rest of the world.
We want to liberate the plant to heal the sick and to heal this world. Thank you.
We say no to Monsanto over there in Argentina.
We see it at first hand what they are doing with their chemicals and with their GMO.
So we say no to Monsanto. We say yes to life. Yes to life. Yes to la vida.
Thank you Seattle. Thank you America.
Keep on the hard work. Free Eddie Lepp. Thank you.
Hasta la victoria siempre. Mucho mucho para mi y para ti.
Thank you Michael Furey.
