President Obama famously said in 2012 after the Colorado and state of Washington votes,
when asked, you know, were they going to interfere, he said he had bigger fish to fry.
And has been quite clear that there are other things that are perfectly legal that are more
problematic and dangerous.
The clarification with Deputy Attorney General Cole, setting out parameters by which the
federal government is going to not fry those smaller fish.
Unfortunately there are 93 U.S. attorneys, some of whom have been frying small fish.
We saw an outrageous case here in Oregon this summer where the U.S. Attorney's Office was
going to prosecute a Native American teenager, by all accounts an exemplary young man, for
the possession of the equivalent of a marijuana cigarette, which as you pointed out in your
introduction, has been decriminalized in Oregon since 1973.
I mean it was just stunning.
And several of us in the delegation were inquiring as to what their prosecutorial priorities
are.
Are there not any drug kingpins, organized crime, white collar crime, what the hell are
you doing?
And they ultimately dropped it.
But there is absolute schizophrenia with the DEA, which is out of step with the President
and his pronouncements.
In fact it took them until last year to actually acknowledge publicly that marijuana is not
more dangerous than methamphetamines.
A stunning admission on their part.
But you've seen maybe the weekend news in the Washington Post.
They talked about the failures of DEA to deal with the opioid epidemic that is literally
killing tens of thousands of people in recent years.
I think we're in a situation where Secretary Clinton, if she's elected, will build on that.
I think she is quite open to dealing with fixing the two big problems that the industry
has in terms of taxation and in terms of banking and allowing the states to go their
separate ways.
I am optimistic that Congress will make the job easier, but I think a Clinton administration
will build on the foundation and perhaps move it a little further.
And a Trump one?
I don't know.
And this is a man who doesn't agree with himself hour by hour.
And as God is my witness, if he said that he was either going to prosecute or legalize,
we don't know what he would say the next day.
And he doesn't know what he'd say the next day.
But mercifully I think we will be spared the specter of him trying to figure out what his
beliefs are that he will inflict on the American public.
At least through government.
We'll still have him inflict it upon us.
We may be able to turn off the television, shut down the computers, or fold the newspaper.
Don't fold the newspaper.
You've got to keep the newspaper.
Turn off those other sources.
Stop covering them.
