Hempstock, thank you so much for being at this wonderful sacred event.
It's always a demonstration of two things.
It's a demonstration against the laws, and it's a demonstration that we can come together
peacefully over and over and over with no problem, because the only problem with the
whole cannabis thing is the laws.
Cannabis prohibition, as we know, is fixing a problem that doesn't exist.
And we had HempFest this year, it was our 20th anniversary.
It was a hard year.
Initially we had a five-month battle with the city over the permit.
They didn't want to give us a permit to have the event, because they're building a bridge,
sky bridge over the road and into the park.
And it's a real big event with 150, 150, 250, I think, thousand people we had this year,
280,000, something like that.
It's a big footprint event, and there's not a lot of places in Seattle that have hemp.
And so we had a five-month long permit battle, and we sued the city of Seattle, and we won.
And we won a third day.
You know, the city said, you're too big for that park, and we said, give us a third day.
And they said, well, why?
And we said, because if you give us a third day, that Friday's going to pull enough off
a Saturday that there's going to be enough room for everybody, it's going to work real
smooth.
And they said, well, where's your science behind that?
And that's just a theory, and that's not proven.
And when we won this year, we won the third day as well, and Friday was our most attended
day and Saturday was totally smooth.
And we were right, and hopefully that's going to have an impact on next year.
But every year is a struggle.
Every year you've got to fight for it.
Freedom doesn't come easy.
It comes with a lot of responsibility.
And you know, at HempFest, one of the reasons we've gotten 20 years down the road with such
a big event is that we try to take a safety-first approach.
We're not always perfect, you know.
We make mistakes.
We aim to please.
Our aim is not always perfect.
But we try to learn from that.
We try to always do a better job, and that's gotten us down the road.
And here at Portland Hempstock, you know, I've watched this event grow and flower and
blossom, you know.
And wow, this year is just so beautiful.
It's just such a beautiful location with such an iry ambiance.
And like HempFest, it's right by the water and energy, which is always good.
And the weather couldn't be better.
It's really beautiful.
Kind of perfect weather to grow a big stand of pot plants in.
And it's always a blessing.
I think often of Jack Herrer, a friend of mine that I knew for a long time.
Jack only missed one Seattle HempFest, and that's the first year that he had his first
stroke.
But, you know, most people with their career would have been over right then.
It would have been done.
And he would have had an incredibly illustrious career and all these books and his incredible
work if he'd stopped right there.
But not Jack Herrer.
It's not the kind of guy he was.
He came right back the next year.
And he came to HempFest, and you could hardly understand a word that he said after his first
stroke.
But he got up there on the stage in front of everybody.
He was so driven, man.
He wasn't going to let that stop him.
And he was up there, and sometimes it'd take him 15 minutes to get his five-minute speech
in.
And then Jack was back the next year, and he was speaking a little bit better.
And he's back the next year, and he's speaking a little bit better.
Pretty soon, man, Jack was speaking pretty good.
And he was taking hemp oil every day, and he was taking Rick Simpson's pot oil every
day.
I know because I saw him take it.
And everybody's got to die, but Jack Herrer really bounced back, man.
And he was one of the most driven people I've ever seen.
Jack really, if you think about it, he sacrificed his life for the cannabis movement.
He did.
Because he literally went until he dropped, man.
And when he dropped the first time, he got up and he kept going again.
And the second time he dropped, he never got back up.
But that guy is the true hemp warrior of all time, and he was a great friend.
And it's always going to be something we think about when we're at Hempstalk, of how much
we love Jack.
And all the people at Seattle Hempfest this year on our main stage and a couple of our
other stages, we had something really cool.
We had these thin, transparent prayer flags on this really thin mesh cloth that had pictures
of all of our fallen folks, of all the people in the Hempfest family over 20 years who've
passed away while they were working on the cause, while they were a member of Hempfest,
of the family.
And we try to really honor all those people.
And the thing that always strikes us is, man, I wish they could see how far we've gotten
right now.
They'd be so proud of all of it, of everybody's work.
So I want to thank all the volunteers with Hempstalk and everybody.
You know, there's a lot, in the cannabis reform movement, in the legalization movement for
the last 25 years that I've been actively involved in it, there's been this kind of
kumbaya camaraderie, this kinship.
Everybody got along and everything was rosy and wonderful because the nuts and bolts dynamics
of legalization were so far down the road it was irrelevant at the time.
You know, it's like, would you argue about crossing a bridge while you still have 20
miles of woods to get through?
Probably not.
But when you get to that bridge, you're going to be arguing about how the best way to get
across that thing is.
We're at the bridge of legalization now.
And man, are we arguing about it.
And people have different initiatives out and different ideas on how it should happen.
There's a lot of infighting within the movement.
And it's just important for the community to remember that we're a part of this incredibly
beautiful, artistic, peaceful, wonderful, gentle community.
And all the activists have to realize that we represent this huge community that's bigger
than us.
And to try to keep as much unity in our community as we possibly can while we increase the peace.
Thank you so much.
SeattleHempFest.org.
You may see me walking around.
I've got a book out this year called Protestival.
Check it out.
It's kind of cool.
Thanks.
