I tell a little story. I've told it a lot and I'll tell you guys it real quick
and perhaps you'll understand then why I do what I do. Many years ago I went to
this little shithole in Southeast Asia called Vietnam and it screwed up my head
real bad. So for about 15 years I didn't really give a shit about my wife or my
kids or my family or anything else and then one day I had a realization that if
I didn't change my life I was going to die and so about 17 or 18 years ago now
I got sober. I would devote the rest of my life to promoting the sacred plant at
every level both as a medicinal and as a industrial product and that I would
dedicate myself to helping those less fortunate. My wife and I started a
ministry in 2000. In 2002 we were rated where they got 658 kilos I believe.
Nobody was arrested. We figured we were safe the next year we planted over a
thousand plants which we harvested safely. The following year they came in
and rated us and then the following spring they came and rated us again. The
reason I tell you this background is because I based my entire defense. I'm
facing four life sentences, 17 million dollars in fines, an additional 40 years
and the part that really makes my balls ache a $600 spatial assessment. They get
to 17 fucking million they can wait on this 600. Anyway we have based our entire defense on
a religious freedoms restoration act which allows for the use of marijuana as
a holy sacrament and for two years I've been trying to get this in front of a
judge and the federal government, the judge, even my own attorneys have all
conspired against me at every level to keep this argument from going in front
of a court. There was a recent decision by the Supreme Court called the UDV
decision which is incredibly critical because it has to do with the church
drinking what they call white Tusca tea which comparing marijuana to that tea is
like comparing ice water to battery acid. The Supreme Court said in a 9-0 vote
leave them boys alone. Now if they can let people French kiss rattlesnakes, drink
cyanide, drink a tea that they import in 50 gallon drums from Brazil then I am
having a lot of trouble wondering why they are so hesitant to put a marijuana
case in front of the judge. They tell me it's because I would be what they
refer to as a gateway case which means that if I won and you guys all joins my
church we'd all be sitting here smoking pot right now instead of wondering about
looking over your shoulder. You'd be able to do whatever you wanted. They couldn't
stop it and that's why my case is on hold. Now it looks like they're gonna
probably dismiss all of my charges but they're gonna do it under bad warrants so
they don't ever have to address the religious issue. For those of you that
are disappointed this is where the story gets interesting. My wife who is as bald
as a baby fucking bird and weighs less than a hundred pounds, four months ago
told me that she had to do something before she died to make things right. So
she went down and she started her own ministry because I couldn't do it
through the one that we had started together because of the legal problems I
already had. She turned around at that time and sued the Attorney General of the
United States, the Attorney General of the state of California, the governor of
the state of California, all of the DEA agents in the National Guard, highway
patrol and sheriff's agents involved in her fucking raids. Right now she has, I'm
not sure, but somewhere in the neighborhood of 35,000 plants planted
back in our garden and so far they have come in and done nothing. I cannot tell
you what an honor it is to have Jack Herrera for a best friend but that appeals by
comparison the honor I have of having Linda for a wife. She personally is
taking this to them in such a way they will have to address the religious
consequences of this and once it's settled it will be legal across the
board. I know Jack sometimes has a little trouble getting the message out because
of his stroke but in a nutshell what he said was hemp will save the world. If you
will study the history of hemp and marijuana you will find that it is the
mainstay product that has sustained this world for over 25,000 years that we can
prove in black and white. I said this last month in Seattle at the Hemp Fest
and I say it to you now. I promise you if we will all stand up just one fucking
time together we will never have to stand up again.
70% 70% of the Republicans in a national survey admitted that they smoked pot and
had no problem with marijuana as a medicine. That's 70% of the people that
fucking hate us you guys. Can't we get the rest of us on board with that you
know? Let's stand up let the people that we elect know that they are our servants
and that means that they kneel at our feet not rip out our throat and bite our
hands. We pay them. Used to be serve and protect now it's screw and prosecute.
It's right in the Constitution. Have any of you ever read that? If it's a
victimless crime there can be no jail time. How many of you people sitting out
there today know somebody in jail that didn't hurt fucking anybody? Huh? Come on
put your hands up. Most of the crowd. Read the Constitution. The other thing Jack
said that's imperative is you have to know your rights. You have to understand
the laws and you have to understand your rights under the laws. The best thing
that we can do is vote. The NAACP, the NRA, the multitude of national
organizations that create voting blocks control elections.
