So come about 1910, this guy named Schlitigin, according to research by Don
Wurchafter, started inventing a machine that was like the cotton gin. It dropped
the labor involved in hemp to a hundredfold from its previous price. It
went from I think 50 cents a pound to half a cent a pound. And hemp became
incredibly inexpensive and when that happened, the petrochemical industry was
just starting to synthesize petroleum to be like hemp seed oil and other
vegetable oils to run diesel engines. And so at that time, petroleum wasn't the
predominant fuel. Most people grew their fuels, you know, their illuminants,
they called it, for their lamps before electricity and they'd eat the stuff
left over. And with hemp, they called it gruel, which was a pretty basic food that
was very high in the essential fatty acids, just like it is today. It's very
healthy food. But the petrochemical industries realized that hemp was their
main competitor. That hemp produced three times more seed oil than any other plant
out there and that's still true today. According to a study out of Notre Dame
that was published in a magazine called the Midlands Naturalist back in 1975,
this article is called Feral Hemp in Southern Illinois. According to that
study, the wild hemp that was growing on the riverside in Southern Illinois
produced four tons of seeds. When you take four tons of seed and you press it,
you get 300 gallons of oil. Now that oil is not only very nutritious, it can also
be put right into any diesel engine and with no conversion to the diesel engine,
it can run your diesel engine. Now the other seed oil crops right now are
soybeans, sunflower seeds, and canola, or rapeseed. You know, it's rapeseed and
then when they press it, they call it canola oil. Each of those produce a hundred
to a hundred and twenty gallons of oil per acre. And you know, that's mainly what
we're driving today when we're driving biodiesel vehicles. We're driving those
seed oils and it, you know, it runs the diesel engines just fine as most of us
know, but hemp is three times more productive. And the byproduct from making
oil from hemp is three tons of high protein. You start with four tons of hemp
seeds, you press it, you get 300 gallons of oil and four tons of high protein
hemp seed meal. So that's not the only thing you get. You know, just think if we,
just with that alone though, if we grew all of our fuel from hemp, all those
barrels of oil, for every barrel of oil, there's 50 gallons, there's going to be a
half a ton of high protein hemp seed meal left over to wipe out world hunger.
And then there's another byproduct, the fiber byproduct. You're going to get about
25 tons of hemp herd fiber. Hemp herds also make paper. There's a bulletin from
the USDA back in 1916, USDA bulletin 404 by Lester Dewey. It's called,
Hemp Herds is a Paper-Making Material. And that report said that hemp produces
four times more paper per acre than trees. Well that's a waste product when
you're growing hemp for seed oil. And that waste product can make most of our
paper needs and our building materials. You can glue that stuff together the
same way they glue together wood fibers today. And then the other byproduct, not
just is the herd fiber, but also six to eight tons of bast fiber. That's the
highest quality plant fiber you can have. It's made to, it's used to make canvas,
rope, lace, and linen. And in fact a lot of the antique linens and laces out there
are made from marijuana stems, from hemp fiber. And so your average acre of hemp
is going to produce 300 gallons of oil, three tons of high-protein hemp seed
meal, 25 tons of hemp bast fiber for paper and building materials, and six to
ten tons of hemp herd fiber. Actually the herd fiber is the 25 tons and the bast
fiber is the six to ten tons. But the bast fiber can be used to make canvas,
rope, lace, and linen. And I think it's the seed oil that's the real key here. And
that when we legalize marijuana and allow unregulated industrial hemp to
become predominant again, the petrochemical industries are going to
lose their market hold. We're going to see a decentralization of the economy.
We're not going to see the money being sent to the sheiks and the oil companies,
the despotic governments around the world that depend on it in Nigeria and
the Middle East. We're going to see the money going to the farmers and to the
local economy. And that's the key. That's what the petrochemical industry does not
want. They want us to keep pouring our money into their industries that are
capital-intensive. It takes so much money to drill for oil. None of us can compete.
And it takes billions of dollars, tens of billions, to refine petroleum into all
the different products we use to make from it today. But you have seed oil and
hemp. You get a seed oil press for $2,000 and any farmer can get all
the oil he needs to run his tractors, feed his family, and ship the rest to
support the local energy market. And I look forward to the day when that's
going to happen. You know what we are really here working for today is to end
adult marijuana prohibition. We want to end adult marijuana prohibition. We want
to make it legal. We want to see it where it's legally sold to adults over the
counter. We want to see it where adults can grow their own with no license
whatsoever. I mean, you know, you don't need a license to make your own
beer or wine. It's only when you start selling it that you need a license. So we
want to see unlicensed personal cultivation. We want to see unregulated
hemp. Right now, you look at the industrial hemp market out there and in
Canada, in Europe, they're limited to less than 1% THC. In some cases, half of a
percent THC in their plants. What they do, and that's why the petrochemical
industries really allow that and support it, because what they do is they breed
out the THC. And by breeding out the THC, they breed out the flowers. By breeding
out the flowers, they're breeding out the seeds. And that's the food and the
protein that hemp should be making. And when we restore it to its natural place,
we're going to see a boom for all of our farmers, for all our local economies, and
the decentralization of wealth as it should be, I think. So that's the dream
and that's what we're working for, to restore industrial hemp and to help
medical marijuana patients. And I think, you know, we've got our clinics and
they've done a lot to help us get this thing going. But I look forward to the
day when our clinics are put out of business by legal marijuana and
unregulated industrial hemp. And that's what we're working for. We're working to
make it where our clinics basically don't have a job anymore, because people
can grow their own without a license. And that'll be a happy day and we're
going to keep working toward it.
