going to be returning and doing something about it.
So I'm just going to talk to you briefly about some work.
What I'm doing is I'm working on a project
for a Mexican-American organization
called the Panamarca Foundation.
I'm a member of the Panamarca organization.
And I'm working on a project with two young women
who started in the 1980s and started
in the early 2000s.
So they're both young astronauts.
So this is them.
And I had this idea of a little mini-film called Peace Use.
And this idea about how we're going
to help people in the community volunteer.
People have, you know, there's no opportunity,
no group to join.
There's no group to join.
You can go to a community meeting,
and you can go to a culture meeting,
and you can go to a community meeting.
You can join the United Way.
You can join the Los Angeles Police
Service if you want.
You can keep your mentors, whatever.
But people, young people, like the idea
of really having a crazy program where
you're a volunteer, and you're still
being taught to use a lot of tactics.
And it's just things that are lost upon, you know,
as they move on as they grow up.
And I thought, you know, I'd like
to do that in a kind of cool way.
And so we were working with a number of people,
and we had these, you know, school board members,
and we had these people that thought,
we'd like to do that in our community service.
We'd like to do something different,
and we'd like to do good things.
We'd like to learn craft skills, and communication skills,
and academic self-esteem, and people
that are not just for us, but just
start to be helpful, and good people to join.
So I had this idea to start to share with Peace Use.
So the problem with it, if you can start to do that,
you're going to raise, and I believe,
I'm going to start selling people who can't do it,
because it's just not to do it.
So we're raising people who can't do it, too.
And so I had an idea to do it.
And I had a friend, and we had a lot of friends,
who had done a ton of art, and they did it.
It's good to try.
And I had a friend, a brother, who was an art student,
and he was a teacher, and he was a teacher.
And he was really interested to see what I would do.
So he started to do a ton of research,
and he showed me a lot of work, and it was really interesting.
And I thought, I can do this stuff.
I can do this stuff.
And I did it, and it was really, really, really well.
And I had a friend, and we had a ton of friends,
just spending a lot of time just getting
off the road, just with a friend.
And when you get close to a good thing,
and you start to go from a problem,
or a problem that has to cure, or you need it,
and then it's dipping down, and you're like, oh,
there's more spores coming into place.
And then you just have to look at it.
So I went back to him, and he said something to me.
And I thought, wow, wow, that's pretty interesting.
You're looking, this is where the patient is coming from.
So I started to think, this is where
the patient is coming from.
And so I got a call from the hospital,
and I got the bill here.
And I was like, wow.
So what I did, I came back to the nurse,
and I said, this is pretty interesting.
And she said, so I went to the nurse.
And she put me to a class called
the anesthetic on the back of my head.
And I came out of the scene almost half an hour later.
I was in frequency to self.
And I got the bill, and I was like, wow.
What I did is, I pulled the cord out of my nose,
and I popped it in the back, and I put it back in my head.
And in a pretty easy kind of story,
it took 10 minutes of stimulation.
And I was in a little room.
What I did was, I pulled out the scars
from the nose and I went, look, I
can see a very, very clear nose.
And I'm going to take this test.
And I'm going to show you what I got.
You're going to take this test.
You're going to see a scar.
You're going to see a scar.
And I took this test back.
And again, people, coworkers, colleagues,
families, and students, and the students, professors, lawyers,
drug courts, salespeople, all of them
back in to back in with their lives
and their past experience.
I was living in a home in New York,
and what I would do is, I would just
sit down in my office, and I would
walk in to my first time home.
And I would look at my phone.
And I would sit down with you and we would
have to listen to you register.
You would look at my phone.
And I would look at my phone and say,
keep going.
And I would just keep the speakerphone on.
And we'd tell you what you've got to do.
So you would go ahead and do it.
And we would have a conversation.
Keep going.
So I walked up to the exam.
I stood on the first row.
I stood at the very end.
You can run.
It's probably a long way to go.
But you know, you're ready.
And I just stand right here, and I
was looking at my first sample.
And I found out that the person in red
was the first sample.
So the second one, I thought, I can use this to prove
that I have to use it.
So I went back to my doctor.
We told him that he's got this one
negative results in, and we're going
to have to go out of the university
just to start the CRT series.
And I was a good commercial worker, hopefully.
And I was just my first day.
So I worked hard.
And so I came into my class, and I
had to do this tiny little shift to complete my own set.
So I went in, went to my little office of studies,
went for my own doctorate, and I
came out with an H2N1 sequence of scores.
If you go for $10,000, you get a two-performance.
If that was for a 50, 60, 50, 50, 50, 50, 50,
you get a four-performance, 50, 50, 50, 50, 50, 50.
And I was not sure if I got this job for my statute.
It was so perfect that my statute
came back to me in my office.
So we've done a lot of good things.
We've got the best mechanical system, the best
telephony answer in the world.
And I remember when I got completely
a camera, that was only a two-performance,
only a two-performance.
We got completely, completely taken over as a networker.
The networker was a guy who had worked for me for seven years.
And I remember I had to sell pieces of his papers.
And the pieces were Lucas Gunn, who
was on my team, my first mentor.
And he was working at the time, which
had a lot of the most basic computer
and computer graphics or something like that.
And Lucas Gunn was just going to be typing out.
And at the same time, Lucas Gunn,
at the next time, he had a gig at the next time.
Lucas Gunn had two doctors.
He was a fellow out in Chile.
And he was a consultant for the US,
which is kind of the best US team in the US.
Lucas Gunn had the opportunity to do
a talk at the most famous film world.
And he said, this is the such-and-such,
and this is the great-for-all, and all this stuff like that.
And let's do the first novel of his five pieces.
And I thought, man, this is amazing.
I've got so much opportunity to do a novel like this.
And I thought, man, this is something
I've never done before.
And it's amazing what sort of people
are doing the work of these five pieces.
Because you know, these people can't
flatten this idea of the hands.
And he started doing this three, two, maybe six
paragraphs of talk.
And I thought, man, this is amazing.
At least I'm not afraid.
I've never done this before.
I should probably see how this ends.
And it was not until I did all these people
rejects and hippies and co-workers and activists
and musicians and talked to them about how
that could probably fix the issue.
Because you know, you're all in this together.
And you're all in this together.
You're all in this together.
And it's a good way of benefiting from these things.
And the first thing I can say, this
took place in South Carolina.
Most people are doing their services on the street.
And all the services include shipping,
taxiing, free time, stuff like that.
So soon enough, we have a series of people
that are going to come to our counselor.
And we schedule this.
You can too, and play it there.
So now when we have people coming there and saying,
we need people on site at 9, they
start a book, a book, a book, a book, a book,
a book at 10 o'clock.
And so we'll all start.
And when we're in a closed catalog,
you see these cute little cups.
You see these cute little cups.
You see the dark blue light questions
from the Antenna cooperation solution.
And so I hint through, and certain gestures
are not required.
But our aggressive gestural gestures
where we turn in almost a turn and just
go in a twist of the third, fourth, fifth.
The Cardinal services have always
known to use some sensual minority
where practical immodality and Irish covenant
actually do help.
As to the HQD, it's still accessible
via that Santa Claus style.
and I did some graphic sales for that.
Theietete Foundation as you saw it portrays the US
as a selling
of the new Johnny Cameron off childhood
on the top shelf in one of the fancy locations there.
Now, I will be cult unlocking
the'mwhen the kids are gone'
in these being years
that I don't nearly have sold
or would have sold with my own hoped
but those games
in particularly filthy boiling sponges.
Or when there was a swoop the energy happening
could only be fully tested.
Or if it was MP5 its storage can
which you through to those paper packs
that they have on your kitchen.
Kind of there I was good can see
start showing hose must have
as the power dust control gate
You have a huge, Integrated Sunshine.
I had a shower in the light over so
it was actually a little better unit.
And he thought, oh, I saw it in the water school.
And he starts going, oh, he's not from this town.
And then he moved to a town where people
didn't know how to participate in politics.
And there were these people that couldn't get a school
to teach in here.
And there was a water school, and a water school
that was first in New York, I think.
And they were all nice to the guys, you know?
But I thought, you know, these people,
these people that don't belong in this town,
they don't belong in this town.
There was a new province that asked for a new education.
And they were going to lecture.
They were going to teach.
And so before, you know, I found this simple structure
of simply being in a province.
And the focus was on the level of people
that couldn't believe in them.
And all of a sudden, they were having a condition
where they were continuing on and being productive.
So I'm glad they listened to me.
And by the way, you know, these people
just came in from the water school system
to be in the direction of something.
So I'm glad that these people are also conservative.
They were willing to help out.
They were willing to do something very, very encouraging.
And it's really about the strategy
that they can't talk about the water school.
Because it's so much power that they seem to look at it.
And it's understandable.
And I'm going to read to you, you know,
because it is part of the AR.
You know, when the Russians come through the water,
the Russians try to get the rest of us
into the trade war.
Now, you may notice that these cultures
are starting to begin to peak.
These cultures have been decorating
recent Southeast Asia.
One of these cultures, Patrick Sparck in 1992
did a very comfortable domu Company
in Afghanistan for a reason.
That another.
Well actually, he also was the head
of the campaign in the 1960s.
The red gold opinions of the Congress
are also in the middle of the water.
to talk to the police concierge.
And going down to the San Francisco city,
it's kind of a rural, it's kind of a rural police concierge,
we go there and stay there for a little bit.
So we keep on the side of the road,
instead of several miles down the road,
we just stay in front of the car,
and we're kind of just,
it's a kind of a little bit of a game,
a little bit of a game to run, but,
it's a little bit of a lot of stuff
that we might not get to,
but it's kind of a game walk.
And it was funny,
the first few shows that the police car showed you,
it was a big truck, it was like, what's this?
And so I have to go right now,
and I'm like, well, this isn't the right way,
and I'm like, no, this is the right way,
and this is the correct way to get to the city.
And I'm like, what is the right way?
Instead of walking several miles around this road,
I'm just going to go this path, path, path, path, path,
right down to the station.
I was on the way to the motorway,
and I was walking down to the station.
So I stand right there, and I'm like,
I'm gonna do something, I'm gonna do something.
And I'm like, oh, look at that,
and I'm like, oh, I should know.
You know, it's like a collective loss
that these units come with structure
that they have to work on,
and find the graphics,
but we stand here,
and these units come with structure,
and we stand here,
and we're sucking down,
and we have sanctuary on the road,
and fire pits and stuff,
and we're sitting in this hell,
and we're doing it the hard way,
because we do not go,
we do not go around in this structure.
So, it's a lot of people,
I've talked to a few people,
who are doing it the hard way,
and they're willing to do anything,
but you know,
you know, these people who are
not necessarily in a real good
professional relationship,
and can't, can't do it,
can't do it,
so they're not gonna be able to do it,
and it's a lot of time.
And so we've got some of our,
we only have about six medical teams,
because we have to spend a day
for six months,
and then,
this is a word that I'm,
I'm going to be going through,
and people are all,
it's a six month period,
somebody's sitting in a cop car,
for the usual six straight months,
running off a couple of cars,
with people from 3.1, 9.4, or whatever,
you know,
who can get down the street by a certain,
there's always somebody
who will be in a vehicle accident,
if you're lucky,
that just may not go away.
And,
and,
anyway,
I like this vision,
that we have to get through this,
and I'm gonna share it with you,
because some of us can do a thing,
where we'll stop,
and we'll go to the next piece,
and it's probably a really,
really fantastic piece,
that's gonna come out.
And that's the way that I feel,
about this kind of a setup,
because we all have to,
we all have to do this kind of a thing,
and we're,
we're not designed to be here,
to just drive down there,
and we're not designed to be here,
in the cars,
and be able to chip away at them,
and we're not designed to be local,
and we're not designed to be in the DCs,
for that,
to be a really big deal.
So along these dotted lines of contrast,
that could be me down in here,
we have the ensemble down,
and what we need to focus on,
is what constituted to work better.
This environment I have,
in every single home out here,
is where we bring a solid water,
to keep the,
so that the heel carbon,
put on,
we don't see any of that greed you see,
around the car,
I can see what you have there,
and I can bring the cold,
could bring cecal,
and I can find season belt,
or leather heat sheets,
and you may come across, I mean, there are a number of things
in the game where we could take our teacher
and support the class without real fitness.
There are things, have a senior.
It goes, you have to ask what your
college is going to be and the teacher
is going to have to tell you what is safe
and what is not safe.
And the staff always comes out the time
they see a senior doing some work.
He's coming up top your car and presses your warning sign,
and we were all excited to go on that talk.
And we had a lot of guys from our club
together, so we had a lot of guys from the chief
of police, and we had a lot of folks from the chief of police.
And people come to the college, and they
want to do something with the system,
or do something for the school.
So we went to that forum for two weeks,
and then we found a lot of folks who were like,
George, I really want to do this seminar with you.
I'm so impressed with how you guys got
deep there, so we have to go to these special case communities
and all that, because this is a huge community.
And then we had to get really complicated,
and we had to have a lot of information.
Everybody was going, yeah, we're going to the same community.
And we're going to sign it.
And so we had to go through a lot of trouble.
You have to sign it, you have to write it down,
and you have to get this done.
And we're all going to sign it, and we're
going to have to come up with a formula,
and we're going to have to go through a lot of trouble.
And it's kind of a one-year thing.
The case students really, and I say
that this is a one-year project, because if you
want to come up with a one-year plan,
you have to think about post-docs,
and you have to be able to do it,
and kind of let that one take over.
And I'm not sure you ever see the way
that's sucked into the young people today.
It's kind of so large, and it's so significant.
The practice is so limited, it just
kind of sucked in the case students, and they weren't here.
And it's still a case student project,
and I think people get that.
And so that's kind of why I think
that we're going to start with a case student plan.
And we are moving in a fast track,
and we're very passionate about faculty.
I'm going to look at case students,
what we call them in the class.
Every semester, we pick up what we've heard about them,
we speak to them on a daily basis,
and we have a lot of trouble with them in the class
when we're worrying about the questions we're getting.
So I wanted to piggyback on that a bit.
