If you think and you look historically, marijuana was not prohibited until 37.
And so up until that time, you actually had a legal viable market.
And just because of market shares and let's say competing market interest,
as it pertains to say, for industrial hemp, you had Randolph Hearst who
wanted to ensure that wood fiber became the fiber for paper.
You had DuPont and other chemical companies who wanted to see cotton move
forward and so they wanted to demonize marijuana.
And so if you look at what happened with the prohibition of alcohol,
you had basically the same setup.
It's just taken many more years because of the, let's say, interference and
obstacles that came into place.
But clearly I think you will in fact see a change and a rebirth of an industry.
And one of the things that's very important to me is ensuring that local
farmers will have the opportunity to benefit what I think not only for the
hemp, industrial hemp, but also in the marijuana for cannabis.
And that's where we should allow for the growing to occur.
You can see small businesses.
It's going to be a birth of an industry that's going to bring a lot of new jobs,
a lot of new jobs to our communities.
And you can see what has happened just in Colorado and what we'll be watching in
the next couple of months in Washington State to see how that plays out.
And clearly we're in a position, knowing that we're the grass seed capital of the
world, that we can grow and it's been shown that we will in fact be able to be
in the market on a national basis and actually be branded for the product that
we have.
Will anything happen to people currently in prison for marijuana-related convictions?
And what about people being charged at the time of legalization if it should happen?
Free the people!
Well the way it works is that at the time of the conviction it was against the law.
And so those convictions will stand.
That does not mean that the legislature cannot revisit and look at this issue on
let's call it somewhat of a case-by-case basis.
I expect that once IP 53, whatever the ballot measure number is, passes, the
legislature will start looking at what is the impact on our prison system
currently and how does it pertain to the changes that we made.
I believe it was just in 2013 we did a re-modification of the penalties that a
person would face if they had previously, as anything over an ounce, was a felony.
We changed that through the legislative process to up to four ounces is now a
misdemeanor.
And so I expect that you will see at some point looking at what is the cost
drivers for the prison system as to what we think we should be modifying, if
anything, at that point.
There's no guarantee.
I mean the reality is when they were convicted it was in fact a felony.
And so just the passage of it will not change that.
Regarding the other part of the question.
Sorry.
Well, if there are, I guess it's going to be based on when the charging
instrument comes through.
The reality, we're going to have this period of time over a year from basically
2015 up to 2016 that you're going to have the transition.
I would expect that what you'll see in many of the district attorney's offices
and that our district attorney's offices do felony work.
They will start looking at what the reality is as to what the people have
actually passed.
And I do believe that you'll see charging practices change based on the
passage of IP 53.
Yeah.
I'd like to mention, you know, under the letter of the law, you know, nothing
changes.
The legislature could very well take that issue up.
And additionally, we've seen, especially in Denver and Seattle, once the law
passed, we saw prosecutors like drop a bunch of charges against people.
So I think you will see practically speaking an improvement in how people are
treated.
But we may need a legislative fix, especially as we look forward towards how
much money we're spending on these cases, locking these people in prison.
If somebody happened to be in prison for four or five ounces, you know, at
their home, which would now be allowed under new approach.
I think that'd be something that the legislature, even potentially certain
judges, definitely could look at.
What have we learned from Colorado and Washington?
And what have these two states done especially well or poorly from what you've
seen?
Sure.
I think that in Washington, the bill is fairly poor.
It doesn't allow people to grow their own.
It limits the possession to an ounce.
If you have over 28 grams in Washington, you have a misdemeanor.
If you have over 40 grams, you'll go to jail.
So this is dramatically better than that.
And in Colorado, they have a particularly onerous system of regulation that
requires video cameras on the grow site from seed to sale with a video feed to
the state store.
It's definitely overregulated.
We've seen prices of $700 and $800 an ounce in Washington and several hundred
dollars an ounce in Colorado.
We're not going to wipe out the black market at those prices, folks.
I think Initiative 53 will do that.
And a $35 an ounce tax is certainly reasonable, and I think it's a lot better.
©2011 University of Georgia College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences UGA Extension
