Hi, this is Pastor Ray Crystal, and I'm an assistant associate
pastor with the Religion of Jesus Church here in Maui.
We have branches throughout the Hawaiian Islands.
And we'd like to wish you a happy Easter,
and may the love of Jesus Christ be in your heart.
And we just really want to pray for Hawaiian Islands
and the problems we have associated
with drug use and abuse in our community.
For many years here in Maui, I have
been the facilitator for people with education
about medical cannabis for the sick and dying and elderly.
Last Friday evening, a week ago, I
was on the Dialogue show on Hawaiian Public Television,
which I'd like to show a tape of on this cable network.
And I debated a doctor in substance abuse and also
the DEA officer and Major Tano of the Hawaii Honolulu Vice
Commander.
And we got into a good discussion,
a loving discussion, about how we could problem solve.
And the police admitted that they
don't want people going to jail anymore for use,
that those people have become victimized by drugs
in our society.
And we moved the discussion.
We evolved it along to where we decided that,
and the president has decided this,
that medically we are going to deal with the problem more
than as a criminal justice incarceration problem.
So people need to start taking the fear out
of their lives about using and people they see using drugs.
And we have to start using the church
and the medical community to solve problems.
If you are in Maui County and you
are in need of education about medical cannabis,
I want you to call my office.
And there is a defense that was mentioned in the show.
It's penal code.
This is Hawaii penal code.
For 20 years, it's been buried in the penal code.
And it's 712-1240-1.
It's a defense to promotion.
What it basically boils down to is if you are a medical need
and your doctor will prescribe medicine of marijuana for you,
that as a practitioner, as a religious practitioner
and a pastor in a church, we have a defense,
me as a facilitator in education to teach you
how to grow it in your house.
And you have a right to your life and liberty
and the pursuit of happiness and to heal yourself.
That's our basic, most human right we have.
And so there is a defense in the law.
And this is the state law.
And we will help you in every way possible on this.
Very quickly, there's books that I would
like you to be cognizant of.
And this is what we always like to talk about
is that in the United States, every year,
from tobacco, which is a very addictive substance
and causes devastation of 300,000 to 400,000 deaths,
alcohol is devastating.
And we know that Jesus made the wine at the wedding feast
and made drugs as his first miracle.
And so we are free to pursue intoxicants in the kingdom
of heaven that we're in.
But still, people abuse it to the extent
in America of 150,000 deaths.
Now, marijuana has never caused a single death
in the history of the world here.
According to the doctor, I debated on the dialogue.
And they can't come up with a person
yet that'll say that there's been death
or that there's a lethal dose to marijuana.
So what we're trying to do is put on an armor of,
like a police officer puts on when they're going in
and they're raiding someone and they're
putting on all this body armor.
We could put on the body armor of the law.
And the law has stated religious use of cannabis is legalized.
The Ninth Appellate Court has ruled this.
Police have been cognizant of it for six months now.
They're not about to advertise it.
We're not trying to hype it.
What we're saying is our church and our sacrament
is religiously legal now under the Ninth Appellate
Court and the Freedom Restoration
Act for Religion signed by the president in 1994.
There's also been a directive.
It's an executive order by the president
that says industrial hemp, industrial hemp,
is a strategic food and resource for fiber,
which you can make clothing, canvas, paper.
And also that cellulose can be used
to make the new substance in 1936
that DuPont's wanted to just be made out of coal or out of oil.
You can use the same byproduct.
You can use the same product of cellulose
in the stock of the Sensimia.
In other words, we could be growing medical marijuana
and take the stock of it and make plastic
to build homes for Hawaiians at very inexpensive rates.
Or we could build an automobile.
I could show you a picture real quickly here
on page 50 of a car that Henry Ford made out of cannabis.
I know it's hard for people to believe it,
but here's a car made out of cannabis
that not only did Henry Ford want the car to be made out
of plastic made from hemp, but he wanted it to be run.
In other words, the fuel.
There was a process where you could renewably take plants,
especially hemp, and after you take the seeds off for the food
to feed starving people or to feed animals or to press
that oil into the lubricating lubricants for the grease
and the oil in the car.
So literally, we can use plants, natural resources given to us
by God, our creator, to solve problems here in Maui.
Now, the National Review, which is the publication
of the conservative right and William F. Buckley,
who is a scholar, has come out recently.
This is the second front page in a year where he said,
yeah, it's Powell people.
The war on drugs is the war on drugs really lost.
And he gives 17 scholarly points in this magazine where he feels
that the way to go is harm reduction and immediate relaxation
of laws against cannabis for even recreational use.
Our goal as a church is to convince the state supreme court,
our legislature, our governor, our mayor, our county council,
that cannabis must remain in one's home in the beginning
until further studies are done on how Holland has solved the problem
of differentiating hard drug use from soft drugs.
In Holland, you can go in to a, well, there's over a thousand different,
they euphemistically use the term coffee shop.
And we know these are marijuana hashish clubs where you go in
and you smoke either hashish, which is the resins that are collected
by literally in ancient times in India.
They'd have the women, of course, they would be more, you know,
or the slaves would do this.
The people that were not the princes and the religious leaders,
they were the recipients of the hash oil, which is called charis
in India, which is sacred.
And they would rub the plant and then this black gooey tar would be rubbed
into Nepalese temple balls and that was for the shaman, the top shamans,
the priestly class, the Brahmin class, the sadhus in India that walk
around almost butt naked in India smoking cannabis
as a religious sacrament.
When they went to Jamaica and started preaching to the black slaves
who also had this plant from Africa in their religions
and from the triangulation from the south with the Zulus
and what we know as South Africa all the way up to the Moroccan Keef
and across to the shamans in Egypt.
The history where the therapeutas, the ancient, where we get the word
therapeutics from the ancient shamans of Egypt, cannabis has been used
for religion and medicine since the beginning of time, a memorial,
12,000 year history and here now with the new machinery that we can take
and make plastic and build homes and make furniture, make automobiles,
run automobiles on one single plant, let alone if we started
to realize the potential of other plants.
See when a plant is useful, they give it a Latin word by the name of sativa.
So cannabis sativa means cultivated for usefulness.
That's what cannabis sativa means.
So for them to try to eradicate a plant where they have laws against extinction,
in other words, if there's some obscure plant like this tree here
that was being eradicated, it's against the law.
But all of a sudden they can fly helicopters to go after a plant that most
of the people of the world in religion has said has been a sacrament
and that can be made into plastic and paper so that we don't have to cut
down trees, we can feed starving people, we can give medicine to people
to alleviate their suffering because that's what cannabis is.
It doesn't cure diseases.
It alleviates suffering.
It's an analgesic.
It's a comforter like the Holy Spirit.
It comes on us when we need it and we pray and the Lord is with us.
And so at the time of Jesus, it was very common for Jewish women in childbirth,
in fact they found a number of bodies where the women, they didn't have cesarean I guess
in those days or it wasn't perfected yet, and the women died in childbirth
and they found chunks of hashish in their stomach and they went, oh.
So over time now we know in the last few years because of Ronald Reagan saying
that marijuana kills brain cells just like alcohol.
So they did a study on it.
They got them to back it up and they did a study and what did the doctors,
the scientists find, they said, well, we found that there's receptor sites in the brain
and we think there's a marijuana drug in the brain that we didn't know existed
because we found these receptor sites.
So when a person smokes marijuana, it gets in the blood, it flushes over these receptor sites
that are there for some reason and the person gets high.
And when the person, when the receptor sites are maxed out, they start to shut down
so that the person starts to not get any higher.
You can only get so high.
You can't overdose on marijuana.
You can't kill yourself and you can't get any higher than what you can get.
And the more you abuse it and the more you're compulsive and the more you are a chronic smoker
of cannabis, the more you're just hurting yourself because you can only,
what the key is cannabis if you use it somewhat in ritual and in your spiritual life
and you're responsible, you'd use it occasionally.
Maybe you need it when you come home from work at a hard day's work and you need the relief
and the stress reduction of this.
That is a big killer in our society of stress.
And so on this book here, let me just show you that for 100 years in American history,
babies, infants were given the strongest tincture.
In other words, this hash oil that I was talking about, the charis,
the resin was made into a liquid and it was given to babies.
And here's our constitution made out of hemp.
If this constitution stands for anything, it stands for my right to say the truth here today.
Our church stands for truth.
If we can be out debated and what we're against is lies about cannabis and lying to the children,
if you allow us to talk to the children, I feel we can do everything
to postpone their usage prematurely until if they are so precocious because all the music
from rock and roll and jazz on up to their hip hop and reggae has pushed them
to want to use marijuana, maui waui, the thing that this island is most famous for in this community
and these islands are most famous for is pushed into a forbidden fruit situation.
Help us and help yourself and help your pastors and let's talk about this.
Please have me over at your church or at your civic group to talk about this and let's dialogue
on this like that award winning show that I was on last Friday.
And help public broadcasting, help this station because we don't get the opportunities
for common people to come on the air to speak too often.
We're pushed away from the media and that's a problem in this country.
So all the wonderful aloha from our church to you for this Easter season
and let us love each other and create a brotherhood and a sisterhood here in the Hawaiian Islands
that can be a beacon to the world and will bring millions of people to Hawaii
to share the aloha and the aina.
God bless you.
Aloha.
