I've gone on to do my master's in hemp fiber agronomy at the University of Manitoba and
now I am also dual citizen in Canada and I've been there as they said for 15 years.
I just finished my 15th year of THC sampling under the authority of Health Canada and also
trained other samplers and have diversified that area of work and helped labs set up and
understand the regulatory reviews that we need to improve this sector as we move forward
overall.
If you were here earlier you heard Joy talk about what's going on in Congress so definitely
check out VoteHemp.com and go to the Take Action tab and reach out to your congressional
leaders asking them to co-sponsor the Industrial Hemp Farming Act.
Your voice is being heard.
We are picking up co-sponsors all the time from various states and now we're looking
at 27 or 28, it's pretty much changing daily, states in the United States that have legalized
cultivation of industrial hemp and thus then are qualified underneath section 7606
of the Farm Bill, hemp legitimacy for research.
So eight states this summer cultivated industrial hemp in the United States.
Eight states.
A lot of people did a lot of work to make those eight states happen and a lot of people
right here in Oregon made that happen also.
I personally assisted with a project up in North Dakota State University.
It's the one closest to my heart because I had direct contact with it.
We brought in 12 varieties from three different countries and planted those up in Canada,
I mean on the Canadian border but in North Dakota.
Those were from France, Canada and Australia.
The collaboration from our international partners right now have been amazing.
To work with us to import their cultivars and steward their varieties here in the United
States really gives us an opportunity to use what is known and have the data to compare
to to look at yields for instance.
Because without the farmer, we don't have the cultivation of industrial hemp.
So everybody thank a farmer because without them we have no food.
Definitely want to invite everybody up to the Canadian Hemp Trade Alliance Conference.
It's coming up in Calgary, Alberta in November.
You can check me out at hemp-technologies.com.
They're the builders of the first hemp tree houses in the United States.
We actually have some workshops coming up in Seattle, Washington.
So be checking those out also in Calgary prior to the Canadian Hemp Trade Alliance.
In addition, I am the president of the Hemp Industries Association.
We are the national non-profit driven to industry for industrial hemp.
So please go to thehia.org.
It is a national non-profit so your membership even as a supporting member or volunteering
for a state chapter just like you have right here in Oregon.
So volunteering for these state chapters and events like this is really what helps get
the message out.
And having a positive attitude.
In addition, I am the instructor of WSC 266, Oregon State University.
It is the world's first three credit hour course that you can take to get a university
credit.
So anywhere in the world you can take WSC 266 and get three credit hours to go towards
your university degree.
It's a back core class so it fills a lot of requirements.
You can take it at 3 o'clock in the morning, I don't care.
And that's right here at Oregon State University.
So if you see what's also driven here and that came through the Renewable Materials
Division.
So now, what's that?
Oh I think if you're over 65 and you're a resident of Oregon you can take it for like
$25.
Any of the Ecampus Extension Services classes.
So that's all right here.
So what's next?
So we're already planning for the cultivation trials next year.
And part of that is getting all of the DEA permitting that you need to actually bring
the seed in which includes phytosanitary, import export documentation.
And you have to make sure that every single one of those pieces of paper of course are
filled out properly.
But the nice thing is now with rules that we have sitting in Congress and one of those
being the appropriations bill which essentially is the budget for the Department of Justice.
And in this budget it says that they cannot contravene section 7606 of the farm bill.
Which means none of the funds for the Department of Justice can be used to stop the importation
of industrial hemp seeds as long as they're done with the proper paperwork into this country
to foster an industrial hemp industry here.
Yeah.
And we are definitely fostering and we are part of a global movement.
So if you look about what's going on around the globe right now with the growth of industrial
hemp in various different languages and everybody coming to the table to want to help to grow that.
So as we move forward we want to help support groups that put on things like hemp stock
because without them we can't our community will start to fall apart.
And that's really important.
Get out and volunteer.
Actually be good citizens and help pick up garbage.
Right.
So definitely go to VoteHemp.com.
My name is Andrea Herman and Free the Hemp Seed.
