Thank you, thank you Portland.
Hey, welcome everybody, what a beautiful day out here.
You know what I love about Portland?
Is you can have a cigarette outside.
You can go to a sidewalk cafe and have a beer.
You know what I hate about Portland?
Pots legal, but you can't smoke it anywhere.
Now I don't know if you know this,
but in addition to my activism work,
commercially I work with the Northwest Cannabis Club,
we're right down here on Powell,
hey I got some members out there.
We're right on Powell here by the Aladdin Theater,
13th and Powell, open seven days a week
from noon to midnight.
This is a place where anyone, 21 and older,
whether you're medical or not,
can come in and socialize and enjoy your cannabis.
You can vape in there, we've got vape rigs for you,
we got bongs, we got pipes, we got the whole thing.
But in my work there, what I found is,
I talk to people and I find out,
well why are you coming to the club?
Why aren't you at home?
Why aren't you hanging out in your own space?
Parents don't wanna smoke pot around their kids.
So just like a bar or a cigar bar,
they need a place to go socialize
away from their minor children,
because they're responsible parents.
We have other people that come in,
you know what the housing situation is here, it's tight.
I know people that are literally living in trailers
and come into our nice club
because they wanna entertain their guests.
And they wanna socialize.
And I'll tell you, the days of reefer madness
are going away, but unfortunately we need more people
in the state house so it goes away more.
The Oregon Indoor Clean Air Act is the method
that they're using to regulate us.
They wanna say that there can be no smoking anywhere.
Well, we're supposed to be free
to associate with each other.
If it's legal for me to smoke a joint at home,
why shouldn't it be legal for me
to smoke a club socially somewhere?
So I'm only one voice.
But I see a lot of voices out here,
and here's the thing that I want you to do.
I know you're already registered to vote.
You know what laws you want there to be in effect.
Do you know who represents you,
either locally or in the state house?
Have you ever contacted them?
Have you ever seen them at a public gathering?
Seen them out at the county fair
where they're eating hot dogs, whatever they got going on?
Have you been to their offices?
Have you written an email or made a phone call?
These are the things that all the individual voices
can do to affect change.
You know, there's money at play in this.
There's money in keeping it illegal.
You know, there's a lot of fines that go out.
People, you know, if you smoke out in public,
you can get a ticket.
And you know what, the court system, it's just a grind.
So we need to create safe access
where adults can meet and greet and entertain each other
responsibly and socially and not feel like criminals.
We shouldn't have to hide in a closet anymore.
So when you get the chance, come on down to 13th and Powell
and see us down at the club daily from noon to midnight.
Comedy on the first and third Thursdays of the month.
And Medicaid Monday, every Monday and Treats Tuesday.
We've packed that place, we packed the patio,
and it's a beautiful facility.
You're not sitting on the couch at Dave's Garage.
So come on by, but talk to your legislators
and tell them what the law should be.
Next session, it's gonna be big.
Thank you all, thank you Portland.
