So good evening everybody. Thanks for coming out tonight. My name is Rob
Patridge and I'm the chair of the Oregon Liquor Control Commission and we're
happy to host these meetings. I think this is meeting number nine or eight of
the, number nine is tomorrow, so eight of these meetings. We've seen almost 2,000
people face-to-face from all around Oregon. The commission is happy to
sponsor these events to get out and have an informal discussion to see what's
going on around the state to learn about your thoughts related to measure
91. We're really trying to focus our conversation on hearing from Oregonians
about those things that we can control at the Oregon Liquor Control Commission.
We don't control the taxes, the legislature controls that. We don't
control things like, we don't, we don't control the taxes, we don't control where
the money's going to go. Many of those kinds of things we'll continue to get
questions about. We'll try and redirect those questions and we may cut you off
on occasion, but we don't want to cut you off because we don't want to hear from
you, but we're going to cut you off so we can focus on those things like
marketing, packaging, how you're going to obtain your license, how all those things
are going to work. Those things that we as members of the OLCC can really affect.
You know, this was a measure that was passed by Oregon voters. 56% of the
people said yes, 44% said no. And as I've told people at every single one of
these sessions, I voted no on measure 94. And I'm very clear and open about it, and I've made no bones about it.
But I'm also the chair of the Commission, and as the chair of the Commission I have a
responsibility to put this measure into place in the right manner and in a
safe and responsible manner for Oregonians. We're not here to step on the
air hoses. We're not here to do those things. The voters have spoken, so now's
our time to make sure that it's done the right way. And so I want you all to be
respectful of each other as we continue to move forward. We're here to gain
information from you, and we're here to gain information from all sides. But the
measure has been settled and we're trying to solicit those
responses from people about now how to put it in place. So let me give you the
basics related to measure 91. The measure was approved by voters in
November of 2014. It gives OLCC, these five commissioners, the authority to tax,
license, and regulate marijuana in the state of Oregon. There are four license
types that were allowed under the measure. Those license types include the
producer or growers license, the processor license, a wholesaler's license,
and a retail license. So there are only four specific types of licenses that
were allowed in the measure. Licensees can hold multiple types of licenses.
Unlike alcohol, where you can't except maybe if you're like a brew pub or
something, you don't get to produce, distribute, and retail the alcohol
generally. Okay, the rest of the basics. The excise tax in Oregon is paid at the
grower level. Unlike Colorado and Washington, which have taxes at multiple
levels, the tax in the state of Oregon is paid only at the grower level. The net
revenue distribution is not decided by the OLCC. It can be changed by the Oregon
legislature, but this is what Oregonians voted for in the measure. 40% to the
Common School Fund, 20% to Mental Health, Alcoholism, and Drug Services, 15% to the
State Police, 10% to Cities for Law Enforcement of this measure, 10% to
Counties for Law Enforcement of this measure, 5% to the Oregon Health Authority
for Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention. Those were included in the measure that
Oregonians voted on. The act does not affect the Oregon medical marijuana
program. While there has been much debate related to the Oregon medical
marijuana program and whether these programs should be combined and those
kinds of things, the OLCC has no authority to act to combine programs or
affect the Oregon medical marijuana program. There's some synergies in the
program that we're we are interested in as the OLCC that we have some probably
will have some recommendations related to the legislature. We'll talk about some
of those things later, but just so people are clear on where we're at with the
medical marijuana program. We will ask you some questions related to the
medical marijuana program and the merger, not because we have any effect over that,
but because the legislature knows that we're out here talking to Oregonians and
they want our feedback as well. So they're using us as a sounding board of
what's going on. The act allows the home grow of up to four plants and eight
ounces per resident beginning July 1st, 2015. The OLCC has no control over the
home grow provisions. We don't regulate the home grow provisions. There's nothing
in the act that provides our ability to regulate those provisions. The act
prohibits consumption in public. You can't smoke in public. You can't take
marijuana in public. You can't eat brownies in public. You can't eat edibles in public.
You can't do any of those things in a public area. Okay, there's no provision
for lounges or bars or those kinds of things for marijuana. The act does not
allow local governments to tax marijuana. I know that there are over a hundred
local jurisdictions in the state who have passed measures that are interested in
taxing marijuana. The OLCC does not get to decide whether those local
jurisdictions can tax marijuana. That is something to be worked out either in the
legislature or that's something to be worked out in the court system. But again
we're not going to talk, the OLCC is not going to talk about the taxes. We don't
have anything to do with that tax level. Localities may opt out through general
election. If 10% of the voters in a given jurisdiction in a city or county sign up,
put it on the ballot, they can opt out of having licensees in their jurisdiction.
All right, it still allows you know the homegrown personal use and those kinds
of things but they can opt out. What many people don't know is that you can also
opt out of liquor. Though we don't have cities and counties in the state of
Oregon who have opted out of liquor. But that's just a fun fact.
Federal considerations. We have you know federal considerations related to this
and you're all aware of this and the OLCC is very aware of this. Marijuana
remains illegal under federal law. All right, so it's a business risk right? So
we just point that out to everybody. However, on August 29, 2013 the US
Department of Justice issued guidance to the states that have legalized
recreational marijuana. They issued guidance under what is called the Cole
Memorandum. C-O-L-E. So the Cole Memorandum provides the guidance to states that are
putting recreational marijuana into effect. The Cole Memorandum doesn't have
the force of law. It's merely an opinion of the US Attorney's Office under the
current administration. Administration to administration could change that so it
doesn't have the force of law. If you'd like to look at the Cole Memorandum in
its original form go to marijuana.oregon.gov and you can download or look at
online the Cole Memorandum. Federal guidance. This is the main points of the Cole
Memorandum. So the main points of the Cole Memorandum are to one, prevent the
distribution of marijuana to minors. Two, prevent revenue from the sale of
marijuana from going to criminal enterprises, gangs, and cartels. Three,
prevent the diversion of marijuana from where it is legal under state law to
other states. So we don't want it going out of state, no interstate commerce. Four,
prevent state authorized activity from being used as a cover for illegal
activity. We don't want to be growing things in the recreational market and
then voila, all of a sudden they're all over the country. So that's what they
don't want to have happen. Five, prevent violence and the use of firearms and the
cultivation and distribution of marijuana. Six, prevent drug driving and
other adverse public health consequences associated with marijuana use. Seven,
prevent the growing of marijuana on public lands. And eight, prevent marijuana
use on public property. Those are the eight kind of principal points of what
the Cole Memorandum says, but again go to marijuana.oregon.gov to take a look at
the original by yourself. In order to meet the precepts of those eight points
from the Cole Memorandum, both Colorado and Washington and the state of Oregon
is now looking at right now and in the process of preparing a request for
proposal for a seed to sale tracking system. We don't feel that we can comply
with federal law without having a seed to sale tracking system. All right. I
already said Colorado and Washington require it and the reason they require
it is so the taxes are properly collected and that the inventory does
not migrate from the residential market into a black or gray market. So that's
the reason we have the seed to sale tracking system. It's designed for more
effective audits and to satisfy federal guidelines. It's also for efficiency. We
can't have people going to every recreational marijuana grow and whatever
and you know individually counting every single plant. We'd have a fleet of
auditors we need to be able to go through and with a one with RFID tags
and be able to say how many plants are here and what's going on and are they
properly where they're supposed to be and those kinds of things. It's for
efficiency not only for us but for for the operations and that's what they do
in a lot of the manufacturing industries today. So we mentioned before
there are only four license types that were allowed. Those four license types
while we have more for alcohol they're very restrictive in what they do. So the
first type of license is a producer license. It's only able to
cultivate marijuana. It's responsible for the payment of tax at the first point of
sale. So for example the Commission had an educational session today. We're going
to make some recommendations of the legislature. One of the things that we
see as a potential deficit on the producer license is we don't have to be
able to have this you know kind of farm to table kind of thing that we have on
the food product industry. Under the way measure 91 was
written you can't be a grower package it for retail and sell it directly to a
retailer. You've got to have two licenses. So that doesn't seem to make a
lot of sense to some of us and so that's something the legislature would have to
change but it's something that we as the Commission are trying to look at. The
processor license. The processor license packages and labels marijuana items.
Also it would be the manufacture you'd have to get this kind of license to
manufacture edibles and extracts. Okay in addition to that we have a wholesale
license. Those people that buy and sell at wholesale. So this isn't a required
license but as as markets mature wholesalers come in. So that license is
anticipated by the measure. And the fourth and final license is the retail
license. It sells marijuana items at retail to adults over 21 years old. So
that's the retailer. That's the person who's doing it. That's the one who sets
up the shops. So but there are other licenses that the OCC is considering
asking the legislature about doing. You know one of the things is testing. We
want we're interested in having testing. But if you were a testing facility
there's no way to get licensed to be able to hold the marijuana out of the
recreational system. So those are some of the tweaks and things that as the OCC
does its work and as we work with the industry and we work with everyone to
understand where we work with local government law enforcement. Those are all
the things that we want to make sure in the system. So that when your products
being transported from your facility to the test facility. That it's in this
seat-to-sale tracking system. So if somebody gets pulled over by law
enforcement or something else happens. You have a manifest. It's clear where it
started. Where it's gone. Where it's going. And and the plan through the system. So
that's why we're doing what we're doing. We're doing that for everybody's
protection and transparency in the system. Advertising, packaging and testing.
These are this is going to be probably one of the biggest and hottest areas
related to where the OCC is going to be involved. The act gives us the authority
to regulate or prohibit advertising. We can regulate packages and labels to
ensure public safety and prevent an appeal to minors. And we can adopt
standards and testing requirements. So this is an area where you know we're a
new ground really. We regulate alcohol. Alcohol is a federal. It's regulated at
the federal level. It all falls under the federal constitution. So the rules are
kind of clear. OLCC for example. We don't approve any of the beer and wine and
alcohol labels. That's all done at the federal level. So we don't have the
internal infrastructure at the OCC or the train staff who's familiar with
those kind of processes currently. So those are some of the things where we're
going to be able to be seeking a lot of public input related to those types of
items.
Impaired driving.
The act does not identify a specific limit for driving. A blood level in both
Washington and Colorado in their original measure passed a blood level
limit for impaired driving. Oregon does not have that. But I can tell you as a
DA we prosecute people on a regular basis all around the state for drug
driving. So we currently have a system in place to deal with drug driving
around the state. But the act does require the OLCC to examine research and
present a report to the legislature related to impaired driving in the state
of Oregon related to marijuana. So what are we doing? We're working with the
Department of Justice Investigation Division and the Oregon State Police to
gather the data together to present that report. So we're trying to work with
everybody local government. But the state police is really the main place
where all that where all that information is gathered. But we're
charged with that data collection and implementation report.
So many people have asked what's the timeline for implementation? And I think
you've all seen stories coming out of Washington and Colorado related to
those things. We're trying to be very transparent with the public about what
their expectations are. We're trying to keep within the spirit. This group is
certainly very much into keeping into the spirit of the measure and keeping
into the timelines. But our commission also acknowledges the fact that when
Oregonians signed up and put their signatures on the initiative measure to
get measure 91 on the ballot, we also didn't have the experience of having two
states legalized marijuana. So we also feel like we would be remiss as a
commission. I think the legislature feels the same way. That we would be remiss if
we didn't learn from the what's been ferreted out in both Colorado and
Washington. So we want to keep with the spirit of it. But we're going to go slow.
We're going to do it the right way and we're going to do it in Oregon's way.
We're not just gonna, you know, they're all every single one of these states is
different. So January 1st, 2015 personal possession and home production become
legal in the state of Oregon. Again, that's that was in the measure and
that's what's happening with personal possession and home production. Again,
the O. S. C. C. Does not regulate personal possession and home production
March through 2015. We will begin to notice rulemaking. We're probably only
gonna be able to put these rules in on a temporary basis just because of the
timelines to hit our January deadline with ultimately a final rules package
coming forward. But through March through October of 2015, there will be
plenty of opportunity. What we're gonna do is we're gonna draft a set of rules.
We're gonna get an advisory group and I'll go through more detail later. But
that's what we're doing is rulemaking March through October. Our hope is that
by November of 2015 we will have a temporary rules package in place so
that we can begin to tilt up the system. January 4th, 2016. This measure
requires us to as the O. S. C. C. To begin accepting applications for
licenses. So that's what it requires. It's April. I mean, January 4th, 2016.
But what does that mean? That means we've got to start accepting
applications for licenses. But that doesn't mean that you're gonna be able
to walk into a retail establishment and buy marijuana across the counter.
January 4th, 2016. So late in 2016 is when we believe retail sales will
begin. Why do we believe that? Well, I think people watched what happened
in the state of Washington. They had this huge spike because there wasn't
enough product in the market and there was huge costs and then it's flattened
out and stuff. That's crazy things. Remember, this is an industry. Well,
nobody on the commission does not believe we have a mature marijuana
industry in the state of Oregon. We certainly do. We certainly have a brand
and a reputation worldwide related to the marijuana that's growing in the
state.
That marijuana cannot come immediately into the retail system. It has to be
grown in the retail system and tracked in the seed to sale system. There's
got to be a harvest cycle. There's got to be processing and packaging approval
and then then retail stores can come online. So that's why we're saying
realistically late in 2016 is when we begin to believe something will begin
to come online. We also intend to process those applications in order of
growers and then producers and then retailers. We certainly are trying to do
that so that we can be efficient so that we don't have some of the same
pitfalls in Washington and Colorado.
All right. Public engagement. You're here. You're obviously publicly engaged
but we have a listening tour. Again, I can't stress enough. How many people
have gone to marijuana.oregon.gov? Okay. Well, if you haven't, take a look at
it. Okay. Volunteers with expertise in the range of issues related to measure
91. So we're going to appoint a rules advisory commission to do that. We're
going to include law enforcement sheriffs, chiefs, DAs, local government,
cities and counties, for ministry growers, processors, testing, kitchen
people and retail, the proponents of measure 91 and three other members of
the public. That's kind of our intent. So at this point, we usually take a few
questions that are really focused on clarifying. Not discussion oriented. I
promise you we're going to have time for that.
Yes, I've got a question on the board here. You mentioned everybody and you
have a DA, a real estate agent, an insurance agent. You see no conflict of
interest with going ahead and setting these laws? In your case, perhaps
prosecuting them?
Okay, that sounds like discussion to me but go ahead and answer it and then you
guys stick with clarifying right now.
I personally don't see a conflict of interest. These are recreational
marijuana laws and rules that we're putting in place. I don't see the
insurance guys having a conflict. We have no direct financial interest in it.
And they will be stopped from let's say selling real estate to people and the
person that does sell real estate and they will be stopped from selling or
having lists of people they can get insurance from?
No!
We don't have any direct financial interest.
You mentioned that you'd be working with the industry. Is there a growers
association involved or is there a nonprofit organization that represents
the growers association like the wine industry, nursery industry?
There are several grower groups around the state. We've had several of them
testify before as invited testimony before our commission, as well as the
legislative committee. Most of those are private groups. You know beer, the
beer people and the wine people have something in statute. The distilling
industry, the craft distilling industry is asking for something in statute at
this time. At this point in time, no marijuana does not have anything in
place at that kind of state level. But I know that there are loose groups of
growers around the state that we have been, that are organized that we've been
reaching out to that are identifiable and have also reached out to us.
So you stated that these possible new rules and legislature won't affect the
OMMP program. But I just want to clarify specifically on House Bill 2040 that
bans medical marijuana businesses within one mile radius of schools. That will
have no effect on the OMMP program for say existing grow sites?
What I would tell you is I don't know anything about that particular piece of
legislation. The commission is really focused on we don't have any control
over the OMMP. The only people that could affect that is the Oregon
legislature. So you're right to look at those bills, but that doesn't do it. We
don't have any control over those bills. My question is on the impaired driving
statutes. Some of us, no mentioned, are trying to produce products that have
zero THC in them. And that is essentially for those who are possibly
drivers and those who are possibly children. And how does that affect those
folks that there is no THC, which I believe that's the active ingredient in
there. So if there are only CBDs and stuff that helps seizures, I'm all
left. So we would like to be able to control those things and not get high.
And so are you folks setting up some form of
you know, clarification on that? Because I'm sure there's a lot of well, most of
that is under the most of those are under the Oregon medical marijuana
program. Recreational marijuana cannot have cannot be given to Children at all.
It's those over the age of 21. So most of that will be housed in the medical
marijuana program, which again, we have no regulatory oversight or ability to
to control that. How many people are going to be on that rules advisory
committee? And if that's determined like legislatively or if that's something
that you guys have within your power to determine. So the rules advisory
committee is at the commission level. It will be director appointed.
Is at least plan at this point in time. And we have the discussion today. We're
waiting to hear back from staff tomorrow morning. The pitch today was
having about 13 members on that committee. But it's it's it's through
the O. L. C. C. So that's and then there's a plan to do a bunch of sub
committees underneath that, especially for to get some really specific
knowledge. Should there be restrictions on where marijuana businesses can
operate? Yes, there should be restrictions on where they can operate
red. No. Okay. Largely green, but it's mixed. There are reds and a few yellows
scattered within there. Wow. He's holding his up. Right. No. And what
we've heard from some of these jurisdictions is that we don't control
jurisdictions, you know, and some of the jurisdictions have asked the
legislature to take a look at allowing them to maintain home rule because each
of us live someplace else. And some of the concern is, is that from the state
level will start telling the cities and the counties how to run their
communities. So that's where that question kind of came from.
Should retail outlets be allowed to co locate with medical marijuana
dispensaries? Yes or no.
Should they be allowed to co locate with medical marijuana dispensaries?
Very predominantly green, but let's this gentleman wants to speak. I
understand the co mingling of both medical and recreational, but I feel
the problem is medical got such a head start on recreational for people that
are already owning medical dispensaries. They have a unfair advantage.
So for the people on the recreational side, you have to adhere by a
different set of rules and finding those limited spaces that are still
available is becoming harder and harder because if it's the same regulation,
1000 people in school, another dispensary,
you're not getting the same platform success.
One of the main concerns was already brought up, which is regulation. Law
enforcement wants one system to audit. We've heard them say that over and
over. So that's something that you're gonna have to consider from their
perspective. O. L. C. C. Probably they're not gonna tell you right now,
but they probably feel the same way. They want one system to audit.
And beyond that, I think that if you're gonna have 1000 ft from each other
buffers, where are you gonna put a recreational store in Portland? Nowhere.
There's 117 dispensaries in Portland out of 225 in the state.
Okay, at least 110 of them are licensed. Yeah. So should there be should there
be a server type of permit in marijuana? Just like there is an alcohol green?
Yes, red. No, yellow. Maybe.
Okay,
so, Tom, you've got somebody.
I'm opposed to having them have a permitting process. Okay, another fee to
the recreational system before it starts. First of all, the real issue
that we're looking at is serving underage
underage people. I think that's really the only concern in terms of the
training at this point, and that's the only thing we have research to back
up or anything to go on forward with. And I already heard the
commission talk about implementing a potential card check
measure against people who are found
violating and serving underage people. So there's already a policy where they
can hand down some consequences in terms of people who are breaking the
law and serving minors. And beyond that, there's really not any sort of
standard set or any sort of information to create this test that
bud tenders are supposed to pass. And it just really doesn't serve any
greater purpose, I guess. I think there are a number of concerns about getting
marijuana served to me as a consumer beyond just whether or not my gray
hair says that I'm too old or too young for it. I wanna know
that the person that's grabbing that bud has washed their hands. Are they
wearing a glove? Do they know the difference between Indica and Sativa?
They have any idea what concentrates are, how long to wait for a cookie to
take to kick in? There are a lot of concerns. And I wanna make sure that
the people that are serving, especially the new cannabis consumers that will
be coming into and the tourists, we don't wanna have bad headlines like
they had in Colorado. Let's make sure that our servers are licensed and
trained.
Please don't confuse being served in a bar with buying recreational weed.
Thank you. Okay.
Should there be limits on the size of commercial marijuana grow operations?
And that's number of plants or canopy yet to be determined. But should there
be some sort of limits on the size of the grow operation?
Mostly red, mixed, but mostly red, I would say. More red than green.
You know, similar to farming. I grew up on a farm where we
weren't limited by how much corn you could grow. There's also lots of
small farmers. They're not limited on their size. There's a lot of farmers
that are big in this state, and there's a lot of farmers that
are small. And it shouldn't be limited to, you can only grow five
corn plants or tomatoes. It should just be based on the regulations in
place and the rules. And as long as you're meeting that,
you can do what you want.
We have no idea how many users of recreational marijuana are gonna be
in this state at this point. We have no idea. It's too early
to put that into place and how large a grow operation needs to
be. The grow operation will serve the clients that they sell to,
and there's no way for us to know exactly
what that will look like. And if we put a restriction on it
now, that will limit the size of businesses, it'll limit the number of people
that they can serve, and so on. Should there be different requirements for
indoor and outdoor grow operations?
Should there be different requirements?
Oh, really mixed. And a lot of yellows. Is it important that marijuana
growers have a security system? Should they have a security system?
Okay, a lot of greens, mostly greens. So that's one of the things
when we asked the first question, that's one of the things a lot
of the audience would talk about is the different requirements
for security with an indoor versus an outdoor.
You have a couple of follow up questions. Yeah, so one of the
big questions we've had and one of the questions that's gonna be on
our mind as we prepare to put rules into place, how many people
think that video surveillance systems should be required on any marijuana
grow? Video surveillance
at the grow? Huh?
I'm very excited.
Well, then you should have a recorded video surveillance system.
And there's a lot of reds, it's really mixed. Which is the issue
of testing. So should the OLCC require testing of recreational marijuana
for things such as potency, pesticides and molds? Should there be a requirement
for testing? Okay, that's pretty overwhelmingly green. How many people
would be in favor of requiring that the medical marijuana program
adopt the same testing standard as the recreational program? Okay, that too
is overwhelmingly green. This is something we're talking to the legislature
about, so we appreciate your input on that. Okay. That means we have to
standardize the actual labs themselves? Yeah, we'll standardize the labs
for the lab testing. The fellow up here, the question he asked is,
will the labs be standardized? And that's a lot of what we've heard
is that you're getting... Those of you who are having your product tested
are getting really different results depending on the labs, and I'm seeing
you had some nods. Should edible recreational marijuana products be available?
Yes. Okay. That's what I thought. So should edible recreational marijuana
packages contain information on dosage and serving sizes?
Yes. Okay. Simple. Okay. So should we prohibit recreational marijuana products
that may be appealing to children? This is where... Yeah, we get more
mix on this one. Should there be standards for what's required on labels,
like there is on food, and you know what you're getting.
So should there be standards set for what's required on the labels?
And that's overwhelmingly green. Thanks guys for having this meeting.
I know that the statute in Measure 91 says there's not gonna be
the public use cafes scenarios. My question is specifically, is there gonna
be any kind of involvement for a private club style scenario?
So the OSCC, we don't believe, currently has the licensing ability or regulatory
authority to have a license for a club oriented business. So that would
be something the Oregon legislature would have to tackle. So if you're interested
in that, you'd have to talk to the legislature. Thank you. My name is
Russ Belville. I'm the Executive Director of Portland Normal, and I wanna
thank you for having these listening sessions. I would encourage you as
the Liquor Control Commission in the gray areas where it isn't specifically
dictated by Measure 91, that an operating principle should be,
what do we do with alcohol? And so when you have questions like,
how big or how much should people be able to grow in a
commercial setting? How much can they brew at Widmer? How much can they
brew at McManaman's? Is there a limit on them? If there is,
apply it to us. When we're talking about serving, we're talking about retail
licensing, we're talking about packaging. I don't think these questions are
too hard to answer. We've already answered them with the most deadly dangerous
drug there is, alcohol. Apply that reasoning to marijuana and everything
should be fine. Thank you. Hi, my name is Jeff Musil, and
kind of a response to that, I think there needs to be a
strong focus on limits on growing, precisely because, as someone mentioned,
there's no limits on corn plants. But this isn't a corn plant,
this is a specific niche product. And Oregon's distilling and brewing industries
have become the high points of the national scene that they are by
letting niche markets grow. And if this is turned into something where
a thousand acre farms can produce tons, then the local growers isn't gonna
have a place to compete. So will there be
a focus and emphasis on letting small businesses become part of the scene?
I wanted to provide my perspective on just three quick issues,
and you don't need to respond, but I just wanted to say it.
So one is, is that everything that you guys are doing,
please do it with the mind of encouraging this industry and not restricting
or reducing it, because we're at a stage right now where we really
wanna grow this industry. So with the exception of necessary restrictions,
we wanna avoid any unnecessary hindrances on the industry. The second thing
is, is when it comes to kids, I think we shouldn't be irrational or
overblow the issue. Kids have access to marijuana today, they've had access
for marijuana 50 years ago. I don't think that putting bright colors on
the label are gonna make more kids smoke marijuana. I don't think we need
to worry about that, especially when we're looking at them being available
in adult only stores. So don't get blown away by this idea of protecting
our children. We've already established rules and limits that take that into
account. And then the final thing is, with regards to the limitations on
the plants, canopies, acreage, whatever, I think that we need to take
into account that we want to encourage economies of scale, cost savings,
energy efficiencies, and things like this, and not put unnecessary restrictions
that require us to do things that require excessive energy or that require
excessive cost that would be a burden on the industry. That's it.
My name is Jackson McCormick. I'm a dispensary owner, and I wanted to
talk about co-location and a couple of ways to address that. I think
the testing standard is a huge way to address that, and I think
the Oregon Health Authority would be pressured heavily by myself and other
dispensary owners to have labs adopt a standard because, as you said,
we've all experienced here the issue with testing drastically differently
between facilities. I think that would solve the biggest issue of co-location,
where the marijuana program already requires customer specific historical
purchase information to be kept on site. That's more regulation than we're
gonna be requiring in the recreational market. I also don't think the
seed to sale aspect is really that influential. I don't think people are
rushing to be regulated and pay taxes, and then are gonna sell their
product in the black market, or vice versa. I think that slows down
the process of the recreational market, hammering down the black market and
eliminating it completely, because if we create a safe access and a legal
access that pays good taxes, people are going to be interested in it. All of the
estimates so far indicate that the purchase price in Oregon is going to be
ridiculously low. I just really don't see the intense focus on the seed to
sale aspect of that.
I have a comment about the limiting of the acreage or whatever for growers. I feel it should be limited because you're gonna have a
millionaire farmer out in eastern Oregon with 6,000 acres, and then you're
gonna have a small person down in Eugene with only two acres. It really will help
to limit it because the small businesses will then have an opportunity to thrive.
My other question is, there is an open container law for driving. Will there be
an open pipe law?
So currently there is no open container law like there is in alcohol. I know
there's a strong interest and the Commission addressed that today as one
of the items that the legislature needs to take a look at so that we can have
clarification. Personal use is a kind of a gray area.
It's my personal space. I have an assessment and a question. An assessment
is that this industry is in its real infancy right now and
putting too many onerous regulations on the people who are going to be building
this industry in its infancy, I think is a general guideline. Maybe it's not the
greatest idea in the world. As a question, I am curious what the review process is
going to be over time because this is the industry will be evolving.
Is there going to be a review process to review the regulations and
make changes accordingly? Change course? I would tell you that the
ULCC tries to regularly look at its rules on a regular basis. We have
hearings, we have all kinds of things related to changing alcohol rules to
meet the market. We had to deal with issues related to growlers and we had to
deal with all those kinds of issues. We were market innovators that were
pushing the rest of the country. You have a staff and a group of commissioners
who are committed to constantly re-looking at those things. It's not
just something we put on the shelf and then keep going. I believe the creativity of both the
edibles as products and the graphics used to advertise them should not be
limited by if it appeals to children. If you as a consumer purchase an edible
product, you need to be responsible for keeping it out of the hands of the
children just like alcohol. I understand the importance of not overtaxing based
on what's going on in Washington, but my question is why is it just the
grower? It seems like a burden. Well what I would tell you is that's what
Oregonians voted on and that's what the proponents of the measure put forward
and we didn't have anything to do with that at OLCC. I'm not sure why they did
it that way. They've never provided a great explanation for me from that
perspective. So I think that's our best answer.
I work in marketing and advertising on the Washington side and I know one question we've come up with quite a bit is basically advertising kind of over the border.
I guess I would kind of encourage and ask you all if the OLCC plans to really communicate with the LCB in Washington about how those
also interact as far as a basically business on the border advertising. So just so you
understand, the Cole Memorandum specifically tells us not to be
involved in interstate commerce between the two states. So you are probably not
going to see this Commission trying to engage in conversations with Washington
about how that advertising works. The first thing is about you know size
grows, limitations, residency restrictions. I think all of us are just
looking for a way to protect Oregon from Walmart and Kmart and everything else
and give the opportunities to the small business. So I appreciate that you guys
are taking that issue seriously. The last thing then is with regards to the
testing, would that fall under cost of goods sold and would that be a tax
deductible item? That would be but as you guys are all aware there's really
specific federal tax rules related to this. There were some deduction
things that we had to deal with that OLCC is looking at working with
Department of Revenue on. And I agree that you shouldn't be heavy-handed in terms
of C2C tracking but clearly because of the Cole Memo and you know you don't
want product diverted into a black market and you want to be able to track
it for taxation, clearly you have to have strong robust C2C tracking system.
But I would offer a cautionary tale relative to Washington that really
approaches from technology perspective and not a policy perspective so that
when you adopt C2C software regulations or specifications for a
database that it allows free open access to other software competitors
because that's really going to create what Marvin referred to as the Silicon
Valley of Oregon. And Oregon has a unique opportunity to really create a
connoisseur culture for marijuana and add to the technology perspective.
But my question is mostly about growers. Later on when we get moving into this, how are we going to do breeding and seed sales even within the state?
And before that how are growers going to obtain the seeds? So the OLCC is asking
the same question as part of the three plus hour policy discussion we had this
morning. We have asked the legislature to clarify that because it's not clear from
policy position even what the OLCC should do related to that. You know are
we going to assume immaculate conception and that's one. That is what a lot of
other states have done but we we have asked the legislature to clarify that
from a policy perspective because we don't want to send our staff out there
into this unknown. So we think it's fair to everybody to at least clarify what
we're going to do.
Hi my name is Kelly and I'm a co-owner of a lab and also worked help running a dispensary since 2010.
I just come to give input from a lot of people I've been talking to and the Oregon residency thing seems to be a big thing that's important to people here.
Also with the medibles and concerning children, a lot of us feel like there's already something in place for that concern which is
criminal consequences and I know a lot of people in this industry have kind of
taken offense that we get the rap that we're not responsible adults around
children. Also when it comes to lab testing I just ask that hopefully you
get as much input from as many labs as you can instead of just one or two and
then with that when implementing the rules just keep in mind just as much
input from the public concerns as there is for the industry since we have the
most experience in knowing what's efficient and how this can work best. Thank you.
What kind of issues relating to banking are in Oregon because in Washington the horror stories are just crazy with what people have to go through just to be able to put their money that they've made off this industry in the bank and so I was wondering...
So this is predominant, the banking issue is predominantly a federal issue. We just had the Oregon Treasury as well as
Department of Revenue as well as MBank which is a bank that is accepting
depositors. We are in discussions and MBank has had some limited
discussion with us related to what they're going to require of their
customers. We certainly realize it's an issue we don't have the capacity at the
OLCC to once a month have Brinks trucks roll up to the front door with cash to
pay your taxes so we have the same concern at OLCC as well so we are trying
to work on that but that is predominantly a federal issue that we
can't control. First of all I just want to speak out in support of the canopy limits
because I believe that one of the main purposes of this law is to bring
marijuana production into a tightly well regulated system and I believe a
key component of that is co-opting the people that are currently growing on the
black market and so forth and I can tell you that if it's not designed in such a
way to co-opt as many of those as possible they're going to just keep on
growing because they've been doing this for a very long time
and so if it's not designed for that purpose it's going to
cause a problem and having smaller limits will allow the little
guy to have a chance to be able to take part in this industry in an economic way
and I would say that in Washington they had 21,000 square foot
limits they had three tiers I can tell you that 21,000 square feet of weed a
thousand to two thousand pounds of weed is a lot of weed okay so you know
it's going to be a good size for every 1000 or 2000 square feet of canopy is
quite it's a lot of weed. The second point is I am a Clark County resident
and I've heard I know that this is a main issue so I don't want to really
push anybody's buttons on this but as a Clark County resident I am a member of
this metro area and Clark County residents we pay over 150 million dollars
a year in income tax revenue to the state of Oregon and we're the eighth
largest county in Oregon State as far as tax revenue and I would just I would
just really like to have an opportunity to take part in the economic life of
this of this community so I would hope any I know there isn't any actual
residency requirements in the bill and that'll be up to you guys to decide that
but I would hope that actually it's up to the legislature okay I would just
hope that whatever is decided that taking into consideration the economic
participation of adjacent counties I would say would I would hope that you
would keep that into consideration.
I have just a kind of touch on the point that the gentleman just made was if we're creating a seed to sale system isn't that
kind of contradictory to not allowing canopy limits because if a seed to sale
you're trying to track it to make sure you keep it off the black market but
then you give farmers the ability to grow an abundant amount of product that
supply and demand it doesn't work properly I mean it's inevitable that
some of us and it gets to the black market. The second concern I have is
commingling medical marijuana dispensaries with recreational use. In my
mind I tracked this pretty closely I've been part of the industry for a long
time and in my mind the medical marijuana dispensary side was able to be
established before the law was even voted on for recreational use so anyone
that wants to come into the business going through the due process of trying
to do with the legal parameters that were given we're not given an
opportunity I don't know if if you do commingle those two there's no real
reason for you to have any licensing application for the recreational side
especially in the city of Portland. If there's that many retailers already out
there on the medical dispensary side and it doesn't give the recreational side
the ability to tap into that market what are we doing what are we here for?
If someone buys let's just say a brownie or even flour or whatever they buy are
they going to be able to look up where it came from who grew it if it's organic
or any of that kind of stuff? It's going to be tracked all the way through the
system I don't know that we're going to make that available exactly to the
person we're more into tracking the product not necessarily the product back.
And will there be a tax write-off for people who get outside software to help
pay for the software for seat to sale? As we read the bill or as we read the law
currently there will be those will be cost of goods sold. I was just wondering
how you guys were going to decide who receives the license? So there's been a
lot of questions sometimes related to licensing there's no limit on licenses
in the state of Oregon the OSCC would have to choose to do that we don't do
that under alcohol regulation we haven't we aren't down that path yet but
we certainly have heard not to have any restrictions on licenses everywhere
we've gone pretty much for the most part. What are the limits on THC per serving
and per package and what's the maximum? We haven't set those limits and those
are going to be things that we're going to be having a conversation with Oregon
about as we go through the rules process. I know in Washington I saw about 100
milligrams per package and I know there's users that use more than that in a day.
I just know that would be expensive. Yeah we're certainly looking at we're certainly looking at setting a
serving size standard which is how we believe we're going to have to inform
the public about it what that size is and how much that is we're going to have
to you know be able to put out there so we're not sure what that is. I'd like to
say keeping the existing medical dispensaries and recreational
dispensaries distinctly separate gives the recreational dispensaries a more
even playing field. Okay. And the limits on the personal grows doesn't allow for
enough of the next generation to keep a perpetual grow going and four plants
isn't going to last anybody a year. My questions first was on a public level
of public transparency. Will you make the public engagement statistics all this
information you've been collecting will you make that information public so we
know that actually what the people have spoken is actually reflected upon your
Yeah I think we're summarizing what's what's been done so we're trying to make
that available. I understand. And then the secondary question you mentioned the 40 some items that you sent off the legislature for recommendation. I was wondering if that was sent out and made public via your email list or system.
Certainly and we haven't adopted it yet we're gonna probably adopt it at the
commission meeting tomorrow. Okay great after adoption it would go out. Yeah after adoption it's a public document as it is.
Yeah exactly. Tomorrow it will be available. Great thank you so much. Basically my only statements are one just a request to treat alcohol you know treat the cannabis similar to alcohol and tobacco and specifically or alcohol and wine specifically alcohol 100 plus times the most recent study more harmful than marijuana cannabis medical or otherwise and my request is just strongly to reduce
whatever cannabigotry is involved and to sort of have as much fairness and parity
and whatever you're treating whatever the non-recreation market and then the last
is tourism to make it available tourism and then fencing with the fencing it costs
40 grand to fence an acre 50 or more eight to ten feet high with cyclone
fencing which takes about 18 seconds to break through that same 40 grand would
create a security system with lasers and lights and forget the whole nine yards
auto tracking and auto alarms much cheaper and much more effective for an
electronic system than a hardware. Okay thank you. I want to highly recommend that we do ban edibles that are appealing to kids there's several products that can be used that aren't attractive to kids so I would like to see the edibles like the candy and the suckers and the gummy bears and all that be banned. Thank you. Thank you very much.
