I am Doug McVeigh. I'm the editor of a thing called Drug War Facts at drugwarfacts.org.
Please do check it out on the web. It's your premier source for information on drugs, drug
policies here in the United States and around the world. I also do some radio work. You
may have heard me on KABU. I have a show called Free Culture Radio. I also have a thing called
Century of Lies. It goes out once a week. And I've got to tell you, it's a pleasure.
It's such an honor to be at the Global Marijuana March. This has a long history. I don't know
if you're all aware of this. But before there was the Global Marijuana March, a bit of a
mouthful, there was the Million Marijuana March. And before the Million Marijuana March,
as my friend Paul Stanford and I were discussing yesterday, there was the May Day Pot Parade.
Now May Day. The first of May is May Day. Some of you, many of you may be aware, but
in case you're not, May Day is the International Day of Worker Solidarity. May Day is an event
around the world where tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people gather and
rally for individual rights. Has been for decades, since well before the marijuana movement
started doing something on this day. Some people wonder, well you've got something on
420, why are you doing May Day? Whatever. 420 is a day of enforced jollity. If you all
really want to go out and have a party on Hitler's birthday, you all have fun, I'll
stay home. Or I'll cover an event that's actually going on. But May Day, now that's something
special. In this country we have lost sight of that. Labor unions not being what they
used to be. We have sort of lost sight. And people like myself, who are proud to call
ourselves socialists, may not necessarily see a lot of us out here. But there are May
Day events, and for me, this, this is our May Day. This is our day to reach out in solidarity
with others and say, we are your neighbors, we're your friends, we're your family members.
We smoke weed, we like weed, we think that pot should be legal. And we ask you people
to join with us in calling for that. It's not so we can have a party. I could have a
party any time. If it weren't for legalization and drug policy reform work, I'd have a lot
more time for partying, alright? I'm doing this because it's important, because it's
about freedom, because it's about justice, and it's because it's what's right. Social
justice is where it's at. There's a thing called harm reduction, where you try to reduce
the harms that people do to themselves, and you manage the risks that people expose themselves
to. Drinking, drinking alcohol, maybe just one drink an hour so that your body metabolizes,
that's called harm reduction. Not taking a shot of whiskey to wash down your opiate,
that's harm reduction, because you could kill yourself doing that. Smoking marijuana to
relieve your minor pains rather than taking an opioid, that's harm reduction. Okay? Simple
concept. When we give out clean syringes to people who insist on injecting drugs, people
who inject drugs are people too. They're our friends, they're our family members, they're
our sisters and our brothers, they're our parents, they're our spouses, they're our
partners, they're our friends. They're people. So we can either leave them to get sick and
to die, or we can do something about it, right? Now, Portland, there are a handful of people
who have been working for a little while, and it's getting a little bigger, trying to
put something together called a supervised injection facility. I know, little off topic,
this is a weed thing, but you know, we got here because of drug policy reform. And we
got here because people were willing to break the law to do what they think is right. Now,
we have a syringe exchange that's run by the county in this area, Multnomah County, a wonderful
thing, but we need more because of the overdose crisis and because, really, resources are
just being outstripped. So a lot of folks are working to get this area to consider
a supervised consumption facility, a safe consumption space, a safe injection facility.
The city of New York is running close. King County, Seattle is trying. They're trying
to get this done in San Francisco. They hope to have it, in fact, by sometime this summer
down in San Francisco. Portland, it's our turn. We've been a leader in all this stuff.
We've been a leader in marijuana legalization and medical marijuana and in harm reduction
for a very long time. It's because people like you come out to events like this and
let elected leaders and officials and just these, I'll be nice, people in places like
Studio on the Square, we let them know that we really are serious, that we want this stuff
to change and we're not going to go away until it's happened. And frankly, we're still going
to be here because it's still not going to be perfect and there's still a lot of work
to be done. Sure, we have medical, but God help you if you live in an apartment or federally
subsidized housing. Sure, we have legalization. Of course, do be careful if you try and consume
out here because it's illegal to consume in public and there are very likely people who
would have you arrested. So, you know, everybody? Okay, I'm going to get through and wrap this
up in a second. So here's the thing. Marijuana legalization is a great thing. Drug decriminalization
is absolutely vital. Harm reduction is important. All this stuff is why I do what I do. I volunteer
several hours a week doing radio production. I manage a few hours of working for a few
different groups. Patients out of time. Oh yeah, before I leave, I need to remind you.
Patients out of time, terrific resource, still working on medical cannabis, still working
to educate healthcare professionals and the public. Have a conference coming up May 10th
through 12th. It's going to be in Jersey City, but hey, some flights are cheap if you got
a chance and we'll have some video after the event. You can check it out. Again, my name
is Doug McVeigh, drugwarfacts.org. You can find a lot more information and all the stuff
I've been talking about. I want to thank you all for being here. You are beautiful. Happy
May Day.
