Federal considerations. We have, you know, federal considerations related to this
and you're all aware of this and the OLCC is very aware of this. Marijuana
remains illegal under federal law, all right? So it's a business risk, right? So
we just point that out to everybody. However, on August 29, 2013, the U.S.
Department of Justice issued guidance to the states that have legalized
recreational marijuana. They issued guidance under what is called the Cole
Memorandum. C-O-L-E. So the Cole Memorandum provides the guidance to states that are
putting recreational marijuana into effect. The Cole Memorandum doesn't have
the force of law. It's merely an opinion of the U.S. Attorney's Office under the
current administration. Administration to administration could change that so it
doesn't have the force of law. If you'd like to look at the Cole Memorandum in
its original form, go to marijuana.oregon.gov. Federal guidance. This is the
main points of the Cole Memorandum. So the main points of the Cole Memorandum
are to one, prevent the distribution of marijuana to minors. Two, prevent revenue
from the sale of marijuana from going to criminal enterprises, gangs, and cartels.
Three, prevent the diversion of marijuana from where it is legal under
state law to other states. So we don't want it going out of state, no interstate
commerce. Four, prevent state authorized activity from being used as a cover for
illegal activity. We don't want to be growing things in the recreational
market and then voila, all of a sudden they're all over the country. So that's
what they don't want to have happen. Five, prevent violence and the use of
firearms and the cultivation and distribution of marijuana. Six, prevent
drug driving and other adverse public health consequences associated with
marijuana use. Seven, prevent the growing of marijuana on public lands. And eight,
prevent marijuana use on public property. Those are the eight kind of principle
points of what the Cole Memorandum says, but again go to marijuana.oregon.gov to
take a look at the original by yourself. In order to meet the precepts of those
eight points from the Cole Memorandum, both Colorado and Washington and the
state of Oregon is now looking at right now and in the process of preparing a
request for proposal for a seed to sale tracking system. We don't feel that we
can comply with federal law without having a seed to sale tracking system.
All right. I already said Colorado and Washington require it and the reason
they require it is so the taxes are properly collected and that the
inventory does not migrate from the residential market into a black or gray
market. So that's the reason we have the seed to sale tracking system. It's
designed for more effective audits and to satisfy federal guidelines. It's also
for efficiency. We can't have people going to every recreational marijuana
grow and whatever and you know individually counting every single plant.
We'd have a fleet of auditors we need to be able to go through and with the one
with RFID tags and be able to say how many plants are here and what's going on
and are they properly where they're supposed to be and those kinds of things.
It's for efficiency not only for us but for for the operations and that's what
they do in a lot of the manufacturing industries today.
