But let us celebrate House Bill 3460.
It is allowing more transparency and freedom.
It is helping us in our markets, right folks? Don't forget that.
Woo!
And so, however, our marijuana law is full of gray areas.
Areas that we all have to be aware of.
Remember, possessing and growing marijuana must be out of public view.
Out of public view means out of public view.
Not on your front porch, not in your car with the visor down,
not in the parking lot of the concert.
Or as Scott says, not here.
You've got to be professional about it.
And we have to remember how to count, folks.
There are no such thing as extra plants.
There's no such thing as extra plants just in case your plants hurry or one dies.
You know, your plant count is your plant count no matter what.
And we have to know how to weigh.
The positive, the police weigh everything, folks,
including that bag of leaves you intended to compost.
And please remember your card does not protect you on federal land.
You can and will get a citation that will cost you money and potentially your freedom
and your student aid if you're in college just for simply possessing a single joint.
And also, always, always, always remember the old TV ad,
never leave home without your card.
You never know when you have to prove that you're legal.
So do you want more freedom, folks?
Who wants more freedom?
All right, well, remember to register to vote and vote to legalize next fall.
We're going to have a legalization measure on the ballot next fall, folks.
We all have to register to vote and vote for it.
Convince your neighbors to vote.
Convince your family to vote.
Vote for freedom.
You don't say to folks, hey, vote to legalize.
Vote for freedom.
That's what it's all about.
We're voting for freedom when we vote.
Remember that.
All right, and, you know, those of you who might have seen me before,
remember I have these four sayings that I like people to repeat after me when I say them
because this is what you need to do when you're at a police encounter,
in your car, when you're walking, at your home.
So I'll say them, and please repeat after me because we all have to practice these.
So when we're brushing our teeth, when we're walking down the street, in our car,
instead of singing to the radio, practice these sayings.
Am I free to go, officer?
Am I free to go, officer?
Wait, a little bit louder.
Am I free to go, officer?
Am I free to go, officer?
I do not consent to any searches.
I do not consent to any searches.
I wish to speak to my attorney.
I wish to remain silent.
All right, folks, and one last thing.
You know, I hope you pay attention because I have these T-shirts here.
So who can say one of the four magic sayings?
Who can say it?
I do not consent to any searches or seizures.
What is that?
I do not consent to any searches or seizures.
All right.
