My background is having been a criminal defense attorney for, gosh, 11 years, 12 years, and
then going to the ACLU of Washington, where I'm still the drug policy director.
But this year, the ACLU of Washington made me an in-kind contribution to the New Approach
Washington campaign, which is the campaign that has filed a full legalization initiative,
Initiative 502, which is an initiative to the legislature.
It'll go in front of the Washington State Legislature in January.
They may pass it if they do.
We celebrate, we go home.
But assuming that they don't, it will then go on to the November 2012 ballot and be put
to the voters.
Here, and just following up on the same observations that David and Dale have already made, is
that we are in this amazing moment of opportunity and also precariousness.
There is no state in the country that has over 55, maybe on a good day, 56% support
for majority support for legalizing marijuana.
Of course, it depends on how you ask the question.
And then once you start to drill down into a more specific proposal, the support gets
a little bit softer.
Right now, here in Washington, we've got 54% support for some very specific proposals that
have been tested that track pretty closely to what the ballot title and the ballot summary
for I-502 is.
But 54% is not a huge majority.
What we all know is that for many, many years, 75% of the American public has said that the
war on drugs is a failure.
The Zogby Poll tells us that all the time.
What we don't have is a majority support for the answer.
The answer is what scares people.
The answer is where you have to nail down the details.
The answer is what happened with Proposition 19.
They had great support going into a year out before it got to the ballot.
And they did a great job with how much erosion of support they had.
Coming at 46% was great for California in an off year.
But people started to get really scared when they started to look at the details, when
they started to try to figure out how it was actually going to be implemented.
There wasn't a statewide regulatory system.
They weren't sure how that was going to work.
And people started to talk about scary things like stone drivers.
And we saw that the people that should have been with us, setting aside for a moment the
whole Emerald Triangle Humboldt County issue, but we saw the people that we should have
had, the moderate Democrats, the conservative Democrats, the college educated women, the
independents.
We saw their support peel off at the end, right before.
And here in Washington, our public opinion research identifies the exact same people
as being the people who are our soft supporters.
Our soft supporters are those conservative to moderate Democrats, college educated women,
mothers, and independents.
And if you address their concerns, you can hold on to them.
But that is a very difficult thing to do.
That is a difficult needle to thread.
And so with I-502, we spent a lot of time figuring out what is the most conservative,
safe, secure sounding marijuana legalization initiative that we can draft and what will
get us closest to what our public opinion research tells us people will hang on to and
pass.
Some of you are probably familiar with Nate Silver's meta-analysis of national polling
on support for marijuana legalization in the country.
And you saw that back in the 70s, we made so much progress in changing our marijuana
laws.
We had 12 states pass decriminalization laws back in the 70s.
And then the 80s came.
And you can see the support go in the opposite direction very quickly.
And now we're getting back closer.
And in 2009, you look at Nate Silver's graph of support versus opposition for marijuana
legalization.
And we are this close to the tipping point.
This close.
And 2012 could be the year when some state, maybe two states, maybe three states, has
just enough to push the rock over the top of the mountain and people will see that the
sky doesn't fall and we're able to get momentum to make better and better marijuana laws.
But how you get that rock over the top of the mountain is, that's where the devil is
in the details.
So I'm sure we're going to talk about the devils in the details of I-502.
I know that people have a lot of concerns about some of the things that are there.
But I'm here to tell you that what we all need to be thinking about most importantly
is how do we hold on to the 54%?
Is that even possible?
And can we push something that at its core, it's legalization of marijuana for adults?
Because if we can just get the ball on the other side, I don't know how many different
metaphors here, but if we can just get past that hurdle, we can fix a lot afterwards.
But we are still right now, here in Washington, it's still a misdemeanor to possess marijuana
and it carries a mandatory 24 hours in jail and a $250 fine and it can mess with your
federal financial aid.
And those of us who live here in Seattle think that we're fine, but you go to Klickattack
County and it's a completely different experience.
So that's where we're coming from with new approach Washington I-502 is that we see that
there's a possibility, but we think it's a very slim possibility and we have to do everything
and be as disciplined as possible.
And pulling together, for example, the sponsors that signed on to it, Seattle City Attorney
Pete Holmes, former US Attorney John McKay, Rick Steves, two medical doctors, two former
Washington State Bar Presidents, a Washington State legislator.
We need all the mainstream messengers possible because I think a legalization initiative
that looks like it's coming from the choir, that looks like it's coming from the usual
suspects has a much harder road to hoe than one that's coming from a former US Attorney,
for example.
So that's kind of the big overview of where our head is right now and what we're hoping
to get accomplished within the next 15 months.
