We still need a long way to go before cannabis is treated like the relatively benign and harmless herb that we know it to be.
How will we get there?
How will we get to that point, that place where we can live freely and in peace with our plant that has so much to offer our community?
How will we get to cannabis freedom?
Well, we will not get there via circular firing squads where we infight and attack each other, ignoring that the root cause of our misery is prohibition, not each other.
We will not get there by finger pointing or insults or dividing ourselves at every chance.
We will not get there by depending on our state legislators to protect us and protect our patients and empower our community to serve its own.
We will not get there by expecting the federal government to protect us from the insanity and the injustice and the persecution of federal prohibition.
Because we know that prohibition every single time treats us like criminals and creates criminals where they don't exist.
We will not get there by smashing windows and turning over cars and lighting trash cans on fire.
No, our path has always been, the Cannabis For Foreign Movement's path has always been and always will be the high road.
Still, we are stronger than prohibition and what we are showing is that we are stronger than the United States government.
We are stronger than the strongest government in the history of the world because we are changing it.
And it's freedom and justice and liberty that's making it possible.
Still, we've been stereotyped, we've been scapegoated, we've been targeted, incarcerated, stolen, and we've been abused.
We've been targeted, incarcerated, stolen from, denied basic human dignity, and locked in by our society with some of the world's most dangerous criminals and most dysfunctional citizens in America.
But we're not daunted, we're a steamroller, we're a front tree.
We are a tsunami of conviction and determination. We're in this for the long haul.
This movement was built to last.
We will, we will get to our victory by understanding the value of each other, by uplifting everyone around us, by embracing the values and principles of unity and cooperation.
We will get there by being a united community to spite our differences, by tilling the common ground that joins us in our struggle for liberty and our endless quest to simply be left alone when we're not hurting anyone.
We will get there by putting our focus not on personalities, but on issues, not by demonizing people, but by exposing bad policies.
We will get there because everything is changing. We are getting there. We're waiting.
We might be experiencing a few steps forward and one step back. We might be disappointed by the setbacks and the speed bumps on the path to victory.
We are changing the world right now before everybody's eyes.
You know, back when we started, when we started, you know, we did the first march here in 99.
But all the way back in 91 we started the Hemp Fest. And of course this movement's been going on much longer than that.
So many people laughed at us. They laughed! They said, you'll never get there, you're wasting your time, you're pissing in the wind.
Pro-bush will always be there. They're not laughing at us anymore!
The same people that said we'd never do it are now rushing to capitalize and make some money off of this new thing because we've worked so hard.
We marched for workers' rights and we got them! We marched for the vote for women and they got it!
We marched for civil rights legislation and it happened! We marched for gay rights and they're here!
We marched against Vietnam and it ended! Because history is often made in the streets of America.
As Frederick Douglass noted in the run-up to the Civil War, power concedes nothing without a demand.
We demand our freedom! We demand equality!
What we need to do, resist, oppose, and educate! Because we'll never be stopped until victory! Thank you so much.
