So I want to talk to everybody today about a couple things the big things I want to talk to people today about our prison
incarceration
Compassion and making this a better place for us not only here in Oregon where it's really really really really wonderful
And I hope you all realize that right now
I've got enough marijuana in my pocket to send me to prison for the rest of my life in certain places in the United States
Okay, so I want you to understand that you're living in a place right now where marijuana is very very legal
There's a lot of people in this country who don't have that they don't have that ability
And so what I want to talk to about today and one of the people I really want to talk about is Bernard Noble
Does anybody here know Bernard Noble is raise your hand if you know Bernard Noble is I got you Russ
I got my team over here. I got Raphael over here
I got anybody else anybody else here who's done five plus years in prison
Anybody you back there come up for a minute. I want you to come up
It's important, and you don't have to I'm not gonna talk
I'm not gonna say anything about you specifically, but I want people to understand something here
We've got this man here has done over five years in prison understand that Bernard Noble
Louisiana
13 year minimum mandatory sentence can anybody tell me how much marijuana mr.
Noble had on him when he was sentenced to 13 years in prison from a mandatory minimum
Miss Johnson come up here
That much marijuana
This sent a man to prison for 13 goddamn years
Okay, a lot of lawyers worked really hard a lot of people worked really hard a lot of advocates worked really hard
Can anyone tell me how much time mr. Noble actually served?
Seven years
Seven goddamn years in prison for an amount of marijuana. Can you hold that up for me miss Johnson that a marijuana amount of marijuana?
Send a man to prison for seven years in this country right now, okay, that's what we're living with in America
This this bottle right here, this is 30 years to life in Mississippi
This is what stops people seizures. This is what stopped people from being in chronic pain all day
This is what stops people from hurting every day of their life and for some of us out there
It just makes us feel good after work so we don't have to drink three shots of whiskey
Okay, so I want to be really clear
We live in an amazing place in Oregon any one of you who's 21 years of age or older or 18 and older in a
Medical patient can walk into a store and buy this this was given to me today by someone who has the right to make
It because Oregon has home grow
We have the right to grow your own
Medicine or recreation as you see fit and we fought really hard for that privilege
Not every state has that every state will have that that will happen that day will come back
Because that day was not that long ago
We will end marijuana prohibition entirely in this country one day at a time one person at a time one
Prisoner at a time I want you to understand though
I want you everyone in here to think for a moment this gentleman spent five plus years in prison
Okay, what I want right now from everyone here is something really simple and it's silence
I want everyone here to take 30 seconds
And I want you to think about what it would be like to spend the next five years of your life in prison
For the amount of marijuana that I'm holding in my hand. Okay. I'm gonna time it. I'm gonna shut up
It's really rare that I shut up. So starting now 30 seconds of silence
You just did 30 seconds the man who just walked off the stage did five years
Bernard Noble did seven years four months and a couple days and he's still he's on parole
He's still getting drug tested every month
He's still in the position that if he screws up in the slightest if he so much as runs a red light
That man's back in prison over two grams of marijuana
So I want everyone here today
To think about what it would be like to spend that amount of time in a metal cage
Over a plant because that's what we're still dealing with in America
Every single one of you here today has the right to rock around as long as you're an adult
With an ounce of marijuana in your pocket and no one gets to say much else to you
And that's a wonderful privilege that we live in such a place, but it's not finished just because it's done here
Doesn't mean it's done everywhere else. I don't know if you notice or not, but my accent ain't from here
I'm originally from North Carolina. My family members died in prison
Okay
I had friends and family who were in cages they went there for years and years and years for an amount of marijuana that honestly
People in stores here throw on a counter and can sell to you
I want you to understand that we have it really really good. We have it amazing in Oregon
We have a system here that rivals any in the US. Are we going to make it better? Yes, there are problems with it
Everyone here knows if you're involved in this fight that it's not perfect
But I want you to understand is that when people come here from Mississippi when they come here from, Louisiana
When they come here from Idaho when they come here from the south when they come here from other countries where marijuana is the death penalty
They come to a place that allows them freedom that allows the compassion and allows us to live in a better world
Because we get to share with those people. Thank you very much. I appreciate all of you. Okay
I'm gonna do one last thing and I do it every year. I have to do it and it is this this is my lighter
I don't know if you've ever seen it. It's my business card. It's what I give out to people
It's my way of making the world a better place because it's free legal advice
It'll keep you out of 99% of your problems. What we're gonna do is we're gonna walk through it
It says one simple thing. Am I free to go officer if I am being detained?
I do not consent to any searches and I want to speak with my attorney prior to answering any questions
Once again, am I free to go officer if I am being detained?
I do not consent to any searches and I want to speak with my attorney prior to answering any questions
I can't fix every single one of your problems
But what I can do with this is keep the cops out of your life out of your car out of your home
Out of your lives out of your children's lives and make the world a better fucking place
