You know, I think that marijuana is our mother earth, greatest gift to mankind.
Produces more fuel, more fiber, more food than any other plant on the planet.
And marijuana prohibition has never really been about drugs. Marijuana prohibition was always
about money, power, and the continued centralization of economic and political control.
The whole marijuana myth was made up to displace petroleum and tree fiber and cotton fiber.
They couldn't have made hemp illegal if they said it was hemp. They couldn't have made
any of that illegal unless if they said it was cannabis, they could have made it illegal.
It was only by taking this new word, marijuana, and using that with racist propaganda that they
were able to prohibit it. So here we have prohibited the most productive plant on the
planet. One that is also the oldest cultivated crop. All archaeologists agree it's been cultivated
for at least 10,000 and maybe over 30,000 years. It's the very basis of agriculture itself.
So we've got the most productive crop and the oldest crop and now we have a limited
legalization with the initiative here where you can have it out. But that's not enough. You folks
have to realize we all are going to have to remain active, remain vigilant, and contact our
political representatives, sign petitions. We need to change the law. Even though it's a federal law,
it's not good enough. Until our farmers can cultivate hemp without regard to its THC content,
but with a focus on the most productive varieties of seed for fiber and all the various uses of hemp,
until that happens, it's going to be prohibitively expensive. So when we allow farmers to cultivate
hemp without regard to its THC content, we'll begin to displace petroleum. Our farmers can get
that money instead of the petrochemical, pharmaceutical, military, industrial, transnational,
corporate, elite, fascist sons of a bitches that run the world today and give us the wars for oil.
We don't need the petroleum. You know, everything petroleum touches, it makes toxic. Hemp is a
natural alternative and we could give the money to our farmers. It's not going into the Swiss bank
accounts and the despots around the world. We need to restore hemp. So I just urge you guys to get involved.
Don't settle for the status quo and help us restore hemp. Thank you.
