Right now, the government is spending much more money crushing the production of hemp.
Another thing that puzzles me about the insanity or even the diabolical nature of the right-wing religious Republican situation,
why do they go after the American farmers?
They spend more money fighting hemp in this country.
In California, which is my home state, hemp was the number one agricultural cash product.
In Iowa, in Tennessee, in like...
Back in Indiana where I'm from as well.
How many states?
At least that we're aware of, 28 or more.
Yeah, honest farmers out there trying to make a living growing hemp.
And the government is out there arresting these good-hearted, free enterprise farming agricultural Americans.
Meanwhile, down in Columbia, Peru, these gangsters, the cocaine cartel people, are making billions of dollars
and we're spending less money on them.
How come? I think you're probably right.
They don't want people to be using hemp because it would interfere with the oil monopoly.
It would interfere with the wood pulp monopoly.
And also, I think there's something really religiously diabolic and evil about the right-wing Christians in this country who go after hemp
because they hate people to have pro-choice and to make your own decisions about your life.
They seem to be some of the people too, whoever looked at the medical aspects of hemp.
Absolutely, yeah.
Now, from your perspective in being a psychiatrist as you are,
you've had the opportunity to become acquainted with many different aspects of healing
and some of the more positive benefits of the uses of hemp.
Could you share that, please?
Well, there have been an enormous number of studies that show that hemp and cannabis
is extremely necessary for certain forms of glaucoma.
You simply have to have it.
In many states, these fanatic anti-pleasure people are so afraid that the patient who's going blind might enjoy the experience
that you've got to go blind if you die but don't have a good time because Republicans are in power.
That's apparently the logic here.
Aren't they using it too for anorexia and for cancer, AIDS?
Exactly. I mean, there's one terrible thing about hemp, and I don't want to get into the use of marijuana,
I've got to be honest with you, there are some terrible side effects of smoking or using marijuana.
One is, it's called refrigerator blackout.
I mean, you get the munchies.
You know, you suddenly smoke a joint and suddenly there you are,
the next thing you know you've eaten nine pounds of fig newt and say,
now that's dangerous, you've got to be careful there.
On the other hand, if you're dying of cancer or malnourished because of stomach problems
and you don't have any appetite, hemp, of course, is the logical and obvious and natural medicine
to give you an appetite to see you through that period.
But again, a good true Puritan would rather have you die than have a good meal while you're giggling.
We also know that it's good for stress to calm you down.
From a viewpoint of a psychiatrist, is there any benefits for someone who might be having emotional or mental problems
as opposed to giving them Valiums or some of these other stronger drugs that seem to be causing problems, like Prozac and so on?
Well, number one, I don't want to come out like a smart-ass here.
Every psychological situation is individual and needs its own pharmacology, so I don't want to generalize.
But certainly, the thing about hemp is it's not addictive.
It doesn't have any of the side effects of many of the euphorics and the antidepressants that are approved
and that doctor's prescriptions will give you.
You see, the thing about religious fanaticism is that the crazier, the nuttier, the wilder, and almost the more nonsensical, the belief,
the more you hang on to it.
I've debated for many years a man who was the head of the DEA for about five years.
His name is Peter Bensinger.
Yeah, she has.
And I can't believe him. He's going after hemp.
But he's trying to say that, oh, hemp, they gave a lot of mice some hemp and it made male mice, teenage male mice,
and it made their breasts grow a little.
So he said, why, you college boys, you see what's going on.
I said, why is he going after real problems of cracked babies in the inner city and alcohol, which is our number one drug here,
and nicotine, half a million people die a year from that.
Here's this guy blathering on about the dangers of, I don't know, he never even mentioned whether marijuana would make girls' breasts bigger,
but I don't even want to get into that.
You've also had a few debates with G. Gordon Liddy.
Yeah, that's right.
And he seems to think that marijuana, i.e. hemp, is one of the plants that's going to lead to a complete social breakdown in our structure of government.
Well, I know Gordon Liddy. I've been debating him. I've known him for years, over 25 years.
I know exactly how his mind works.
And like a good army man, like a good military man, like a good policeman, like a good follower of his leader, Richard Nixon,
Gordon Liddy has never had one unauthorized thought in his life.
So he reads the lines.
LSD makes you jump out of windows. Marijuana makes you, what is that?
It's the gateway drug.
Yeah, it's the gateway drug.
It sure is the gateway drug.
