How, how are you?
I mean, hi, how are you?
My name is Radical Russ Belville.
I'm the co-partner in Delta Nine House,
Portland's 420 friendliest Airbnb,
and I'm also the host of the Marijuana Agenda podcast.
Check it out on iTunes and all other outlets.
I've traveled all across North America
these past 13 years,
fighting for the end of adult marijuana prohibition,
and I'm happy to say it is a beautiful day
to be here in legal pot land, Oregon.
Yeah.
So maybe you're thinking though, marijuana's legal.
So what do we got to march about?
That's a good question.
When this march first started in 1999,
there were no legal states,
and there were only five medical marijuana states.
When I started doing this march in 2005,
two out of three people nationwide
opposed legalization of marijuana.
Today, two out of three people nationwide support
the legalization of marijuana.
We have nine legal states.
We have 29 medical marijuana states.
We have 17 CBD-only states.
We're down to just four states in America
that have absolute cannabis prohibition.
So we've made a lot of progress.
But folks, legal ain't equal.
Legal ain't equal.
We can still lose our jobs for smoking legal marijuana.
We can still have our gun rights denied
for smoking legal marijuana.
We can still have our children taken away from us
for legal marijuana,
and we still have no public place
where we can gather with other adults
and smoke legal marijuana.
So folks, legal ain't equal in our personal lives,
and legal ain't equal in our business lives.
I'd like to quote my friend Jody Emery in Canada,
who said,
we thought legalization meant
the existing marijuana industry would be made legal.
But that's not what's happening.
We're finding a legalization industry
that's squeezing out the family farmer,
that's squeezing out the minority distributor.
That's right, folks.
Blacks and hippies did the time,
but whites and yuppies are making the dimes.
And that's something we need to change.
We heard a lot as we were trying to legalize marijuana
about treat marijuana like alcohol.
Treat marijuana like alcohol.
But legal alcohol can take business deductions
on their taxes that legal marijuana can't take.
Legal alcohol doesn't have to worry about its bank accounts
getting closed, but legal marijuana does.
And legal alcohol doesn't have to worry
about federal interference, but legal marijuana does.
Legal ain't equal, especially on this Cinco de Mayo,
when right down there at Tom McCall Waterfront Park,
the place is packed with parents and children
at a place that is sponsored
a three day outdoor drinking festival
sponsored by Modelo Especial, Corona Extra,
Negra Modelo, and Cerveza Pacifico
that you can drink right out in the open in front of kids.
But right here in Pioneer Courthouse Square
for our marijuana festival, marijuana is invisible.
So legal ain't equal.
We also insisted that legalization
should not harm medical marijuana.
We said it three times in Measure 91.
So what is the state doing?
Denying out-of-state patient cards,
steep reductions in growth sites,
invasive tracking and inspections,
complex regulations and exorbitant fees
that are driving growers out of the program.
These drastic changes to the medical cannabis program
are unconscionable.
This state charges $200.
That's the highest fee in the 29 states
that have medical marijuana for a sick and disabled person
to join a medical marijuana program
that's always run a surplus.
Always run a surplus.
And then the state goes and diverts money from that surplus
to balance the budget of other failing bureaucracies,
then has the gall to come back to our growers
and say they gotta pay, what is it, 40 bucks a month
for some invasive tracking program?
They're so messed up that they're driving growers
out of this program.
We are marching today because we got it legal,
but legal ain't equal.
Legal ain't equal to the OLCC.
They're so afraid of pot that they have devoted
only twice as many resources to the minor decoy operations,
the stings, trying to get underage buys,
twice as many to alcohol as they do to marijuana,
but there are 10 times as many alcohol outlets
as there are marijuana outlets.
And then they're shocked when they come back
and find in the past five decoy operations,
100% compliance on the marijuana side,
but they have nothing to say about the fact
that in the last five alcohol decoy operations,
one out of every eight teenagers
was successfully able to buy alcohol with a real ID,
with a red box around their head
that says they're not legal.
Treat marijuana like alcohol,
we ought to treat alcohol like marijuana.
We seem to be doing a much better job of controlling it.
And legal ain't equal to the Oregon Health Association,
the Oregon Health Administration.
They're so fearful of gaming the system
that they've turned the system into an expensive game
that most growers don't want to play anymore.
Then they're upset when our patients who can't find any
return to the unregulated, untaxed underground market
that OHA was passing these laws
to try to eliminate in the first place.
And most of all, legal ain't equal
to the Oregon legislature.
How else can you explain a clean air act
that bans indoor smoking
because we proved secondhand tobacco smoke was harmful,
but then it's amended by the legislature
to include cannabis vapor,
which has never been proven to be harmful?
A clean air act that offers an exception for cigar bars
to allow tobacco smoking,
but doesn't allow an exemption for cannabis smoking?
Legal ain't equal.
And I say, what the hell good is a right
if you got no place to exercise it?
We're marching today because we want our equal rights.
We deserve to be treated with the same decency and respect
as any cigar smoker, any beer drinker, any whiskey chugger,
any chewing tobacco user.
We deserve equal rights.
If society figured out how to accommodate the beer drinkers
and accommodate the cigar smokers,
they should just apply those rules to us as well.
Any place I can smoke a cigar,
I should be able to smoke a joint.
Any place I can do a shot of whiskey,
I should be able to do a dab.
Are you with me?
Thank you for coming out today.
I'm Radical Russ Beldo.
You can check me out radicalruss.com,
delta9house.com, and the Marijuana Agenda.
Thank you, everyone.
