These antique medicines you'll see things for delirium tremens now that's a side effect of
Yeah, putting alcohol. That's right. That's it. You see it says it's for getting off opium and nicotine and chloroform
So it helps with that too
Here is a eli lily bottle. We have a couple of eli lily bottles in the collection here
Here's another one. This one is extract number 96 and right next to it is extract number 17
So eli lily had a variety of different medicines and we'll show some others on some other shows here
We have a hypno sedative with cannabis. It also
has
Chloroform and bromide which the chloroform alone, of course will knock you out
this is
Uh for migraines now here it shows they were using cannabis for migraines and they mix this with aspirin basically
A
Extract of cannabis and aspirin pill from sharpened dome of boston
And then right next door we have another sharpened dome cannabis extract bottle. This is from mulford company in
Ohio, it's a nice collection all of these bottles date from 1870 to 1910
This one is about 1905
And I like this one because they call it american hemp and it's cannabis grown here in the good old us of a and it
It has really interesting list of things I won't go through right now
Here is one of my favorite and I eat these regularly. They're shelled hemp seeds from
Canada and they you can find them in a lot of different stores
Once you press your hemp seeds and take out the oil you have a high protein flour left and here's hemp flour you can make
uh hemp protein drinks
Hemp patties and burgers all kinds of things. It's really good. And here's one
A couple of different versions of hemp milk. Yeah, this one from living harvest this one from manitoba harvest
They're all made up in canada because we can't grow this stuff in the united states the the drug enforcement administration
Doesn't think we can handle it, but we're gonna get octopass and we're gonna be able to grow it right here in the great
State of oregon. That's right. Right and we need your help out there. So get ready
We're gonna need you to come and volunteer because we you know, we're gonna create new jobs
Yes, we're gonna create new industries. Yes, we are oregon on the cutting edge of some exciting new
environmental and economic
Developments that will benefit our state a great great deal. I could totally see us creating an industry here of wood products, too
Oh, it's all we've got all the pieces in place for that. We have the workers who are going off
You know who have that knowledge? Yeah, we can put people to work at the state anything made with petrochemicals can be made with hemp seed oil
So I look forward to
