We lost Dennis Perrone this last year and he was a father of medical marijuana
and he was around with the Harvey Milk crowd and all that sort of stuff so I
feel safe in saying what I'm about to say. My name is Anthony Taylor and I'm
here to recruit you. I need every patient on this square to come up and talk to me
about how they can come to the Commission and talk to the Commission
because this Commission needs to hear from patients. They need to hear from
patients at every meeting they have. They need to hear from patients when they go
on the listening tour and most importantly you have to get all your
friends and all your grower friends to stick with the program. We're down to
45,000 patients right now and that's unacceptable. This is a fee-based program.
If the fees go away the program goes away so renew your goddamn cards and get
your growers to stick with growing for patients and quit jumping the
fence and going to OLCC where everything is upside down. Right now the Oregon
Health Authority is proposing to limit medical marijuana growers to three
immature plants below 24 inches. You can't even grow radishes like that let
alone a fragile plant a fragile strain that's really helping three or four year
patients. So stay abreast of what's going on with the OHA. The rules advisory
committee is meeting on Monday and after that they'll establish the public
comment period which is about 30 days of being able to write in and express your
concerns. If I don't get that number for immature plants up to about 15 to 1
we're gonna have a little bit of a revolution because I'm gonna call on all
you patients and all your growers to help us with this. I've been a lobbyist. I
was the first paid marijuana lobbyist in this state in 1985. I've been doing it
off and on for a long time and I will tell you that we need your help in the
legislature but what I have avoided doing because of my experience in a
legislature and because I know that when you go speak to the committee you get
two minutes. I'm not I'm not willing to ask patients that are in wheelchairs and
oxygen 24-7 or in a hospital bed in an assisted living facility to come in and
participate in that. I'm not going to ask them to sit on a commission that has to
struggle through hours and hours of debate to come up with good rules to
help these but I am going to ask you to come to the listening tour for the
Oregon Cannabis Commission that will probably happen this fall. Make your
voices heard. We're down to 45,000 patients. We cannot let this continue. We
are in crisis mode and without patient help, without the patient voice, we're
gonna lose our program. I have done all I can. Compassionate Oregon has added PTSD.
We've added persistent and degenerative neurological conditions so now you
can get a cannabis card for spectral disorders and lupus and Lyme disease and
excuse me and ALS. So stick with the program otherwise we're gonna lose it.
Give me a year or so on this commission to get things turned around a little bit.
I am NOT the chair. I am NOT the only Cannabis Commissioner. I am on the Oregon
Cannabis Commission which Compassionate Oregon had enacted in the 2017 session. So
this commission was put together to address medical patient concerns right
up front. So when so we have the concerns about doctors not giving us the
appropriate medications. They're not giving, they're kicking us off pain
management programs. They're telling us we can't be daycare providers
because we have a card. We can't be on a transplant list and if we are on a
transplant list we can't be active users of cannabis that's saving our damn lives.
So patients you gotta come to the table. I can't hold them back any longer.
They're gonna take over this program and you will be at the mercy of the Oregon
Liquor Control Commission. Enjoy the rest of your day.
