Greetings, my name is Marlon Starr. I am Mean Green Cream. I'm also a patient activist here in Oregon.
For many years, we here in Oregon have been leaders in the nation when it comes to cannabis.
Today, I can no longer say that we're necessarily the leaders.
Due to our lawmakers, OHA and OLCC, we have slipped from the forefront position and we're starting to slide.
We as individuals, we as citizens need to come together and step forward and make our voice known.
It is up to us the people to make the changes in our state so that we are the leaders in the forefront of a changing nation and a changing world.
We have other countries now like Australia that is looking to the United States for guidance.
Do we want to give them wrong guidance? I for sure do not want to because I am a fourth generation Oregonian.
Some of the things that really bother me is the packaging.
Yes, we need packaging, but no we do not need over-regulation on the packaging.
We have been a green state before a green state was popular.
We need to keep it that way.
Patients access is necessary.
A patient takes upwards of 21,000 milligrams or greater in their body to be able to have a semblance of order and to be able to have a normal life that you and I take for granted.
These truths we hold evidence as marijuana consumers, as cannabis consumers, that it helps us with our everyday life.
It helps us come out and be sociable and socialize for PTSD.
It helps, it helps, it helps.
The only ones that are not helping are the ones in this building because they do not understand.
A policy made from ignorance is not a policy.
It is a fear-based legislation.
We all need to tell our friends that we have 15 minutes right each in front of our legislators.
Each one of us need to make those appointments, make our voices heard, and we as cannabis activists can now become cannabis leaders in a nation and in a world that is changing.
It is up to each and every single one of us, not the people in this building.
It is up to you and me and every other citizen in Oregon to do right by and for Oregon.
We need to stand up for each individual patient and their rights.
In the last meeting they already said, the train has already left on not messing with the medical program.
Well, we need to find a reverse and we need to back that back up into that station and realize that patients have rights.
And doctors need to understand that patients have a voice and they should not choose in between their pharmaceutical medicines and a plant that is available on every single continent on this earth.
God gave us a plant on every single continent that goes for every single person on this earth.
And if we aren't supposed to use it, then we should be putting God in jail, not us.
Let us make sure that we do right by the United States and by our country.
Thank you very much for your time.
