I'm a cannabis grower and I have a question for George.
We are having a problem in curing our cannabis to where we're trying to find a fine line
between not letting it mold but yet letting it get too dry.
We keep them in the glass jars and we do burp the glass jars because we have had some that
did mold and so to prevent the molding, you know, we are burping the jars but then we
find that if we burp the jars too much that it's getting too dry.
So I was wondering if he had any suggestions.
Yeah, you probably have mold on it.
It's probably got mold before it goes into the jar and generally what happens, you probably
have all kinds of mildew.
The big one is a powdery mildew and botrytis isn't so bad but that's botrytis in arra.
You can have this powdery mildew and this year it's been horrid.
We had one year in Spain where it was horrid, two years and now it's not so bad.
You have to start controlling it early on because it's a systemic thing and it could
start in your plants already, right?
And you have to kill it before it gets in if you want to do it organically because there's
what is it, bacillus subtilis.
It's one of the bacillus, you know, bacterias and serenades, one of the products that they
use, right?
And you have to put that on your plant before the mold comes and then you have to keep that
up before the mold comes.
And then after that, you know, keep mold, other plants that are molding away because
this year it was horrid.
Everything had mold.
I have crape myrtles where I was growing this year in California and they had it, my plants
got it.
I kept ahead of it on some of them, did an experiment on the others and they didn't look
too well.
But anyway, there's that point, you start there and then after that when you harvest
the plants, you take all the branches, you know, and you put them in a bucket, a container
like this full of water with like say a 2% solution of hydrogen peroxide, yeah, H2O2.
And then you soak them in there for a while.
It sounds kind of funny, but you soak them in there.
The mold floats up to the top.
You skim that off, might take a couple of times and then you skim that off and then
you take your plants and you lightly spray them with water, with water.
I don't know exactly what it does to the trichomes.
It may beat them a little bit, but I would use like a light spray, not heavy spray, just
to kind of rinse it off and then you shake that and then you let it dry or you can put
it in a harvesting machine, or I mean a trimming machine.
But then, then you can put it into your container, you know, but the second control I already
gave was, you know, when it had mold on it already.
And that stuff, it's hard to see, you know.
Once you see it, it's there, it's inside the plant.
You can't change that.
So one of the things I've been playing with, I was playing with one of those green lights,
you know, you put on your head and walk around in the green, or in the grow room with.
We were filming in a, I'm doing a lot of videos now, and we were filming in a grow room and
I was looking around with this green light and you can see the mold, it sticks out.
Yeah, and so the next thing I'm going to do is get the UVC light, not UVB, but UVC.
It'll burn your eyes, but you can shine it on the mold and it'll kill it right on the
plant, you know.
So that's a big tip.
Please pay attention.
There you go, from the master himself.
Hey, here's something I'd like to say.
I just came from dinner with my friend Jeff, who wrote this book, Teeming with Microbes,
and it's an excellent book.
Wonderful book.
It's all about growing organically.
You put a good biology with your soil and you're going to grow a lot bigger plants.
You're going to have way fewer problems.
You're not going to have, gosh, all of these invasions to the roots and everything.
The microbes will help so much.
I've been using the mycorrhizal enzymes for years.
That helps the nutrients break down and feed the roots.
What other microbes can you tell me about?
The thing is with the microbes, they make the fertilizer, the nutrients that are available,
they make them available in the soil.
There's already a lot of things in the soil that just are not available.
To make it available is a big thing.
Just because something has a big NPK number, like 10, 20, 30, or whatever, on the label,
doesn't mean that the plant is going to use it.
That plant, it doesn't use that always or uses a fraction of it.
The main thing is to get the stuff used.
Anyway, like I say, give this a shot and you'll be much happier.
The other thing is too, people spend a lot for fertilizers and stuff.
It's not necessary.
You can grow a 10-pound plant in a 200-gallon container with good soil.
For your flowering fertilizer, you have two hands, two hands like this full of bat guano.
You should have gloves on because it's poop.
It's not good.
But you throw that on there and that's it.
That's all you have to give for the whole year.
That's it.
So if you fill your head with good things, you don't have to put too much on your plants.
It's a very good thing.
Very good point.
The big plant video that you produced, you're working on some others.
You've got that one out there on the best way to do that.
I know I'm gearing up right now to make my cuttings for this April.
I always try to make them right around the first of the year.
So they're good three to five feet tall when they go in in April.
That's what you have to remember.
This plant's really, really easy to grow.
Some people call it a weed.
It grows everywhere.
Everywhere.
It's amazing how big it will grow too.
Yeah, exactly.
It grows huge.
24 plants in an area and it's just jam-packed.
So now I've cut it back to nine.
I've seen three plants fill a 60 by 30 greenhouse in a season.
Yeah, that's totally possible.
There's people who are growing plants 20 pounds.
It's very, very possible.
It's not that difficult.
The main thing is it takes time for it to grow that big.
If it doesn't have time, the plants indoors, they can grow a meter high and that's it
because the light is limiting and the pot is limiting.
But when you have a plant that has plenty of soil and there's time for the biology to
take place in the soil for the roots to absorb everything, you're going to have a lot bigger
plant.
Like I say, you're taking your cuttings right after Christmas, first of the year.
That's what you should be doing.
You're growing cuttings too.
But the thing is your cuttings have been acclimated to this climate.
This is sunset Western Garden Book Zone 8.
8A or B, I can't remember.
But that means the last average day of frost is April 15th, I think.
So I'm in Zone 14 where I'm at in California right now.
I can start a bit earlier.
But the main thing is you can put these plants outside.
You've got to keep them from flowering.
So that means they're going to need a little light to keep it from flowering because it's
a daylight sensitive plant.
But the other thing is they're going to need heat and that's about it.
It can be raining cats and dogs outside.
As long as they're warm enough, they're going to grow.
And they don't need tons of light early on in the year.
