You know, I'm really excited that marijuana is legal in Oregon and that 12,000 people won't go to jail this year for cannabis. Yay!
So, as we are working toward implementing that law, we've come across some problems.
And that the Measure 91 committee decided that Measure 91 was a good first draft and they want to do something different.
And so, we've had a time of coming together and really communicating what our community needs
because the Measure 91 committee did not follow what Measure 91 said.
Measure 91 said that OMA should remain untouched. It said it three different times.
But because it wasn't a constitutional amendment, put the sign down, buddy.
Because it wasn't a constitutional amendment, they changed it. They took it as a good first draft and they're doing what they want.
So, right now, tomorrow, Monday, SB 844 is going to be adopted.
There's some discussion if it's already been adopted or if it's not adopted.
I think that it's pretty close to adopted as it's going to be until they actually take care of it.
And then they've got Dash 7 amendments too. So, they're trying to alter it sentence by sentence, literally.
Like, it's literally sentence by sentence. Change this word, adopt this thing.
But what they've done is they've messed up our grows, you guys.
They messed up our possession limit for our plants.
And so, that's a really big deal because now a bunch of patients that were going to have medicine from their growers,
their growers cannot give them that medicine for free because they're not going to have a surplus of medicine to be able to give away for free.
And there won't be as many growers able to help as many of these patients out.
They've put on some pretty strict reporting requirements and they've put in some things like inspections for grows.
If you designate somebody else to grow for you, then that person would be subject to inspection.
There's a lot of things like that that are very alarming in this legislation.
And so, what I would invite all of you to do is to read it. Get involved. Show up in Salem.
On Mondays and Wednesdays at 5 o'clock, the Measure 91 committee meets.
And they have done a really good job about listening to what we have to say.
They recently called themselves a monkey with a gun.
You guys, they called themselves a monkey with a gun over our program.
We know what we need. So, we need everybody here to show up and tell them what we need.
Now, after they're done with this SB 844 and the amendments that go with it, they're actually going to turn toward Measure 91.
In Measure 91, they're going to be looking at retaxing.
And the taxing structures that were laid in place are going to be gone.
They're going to look at implementing moratorium.
And they're going to look at implementing moratorium without putting it to a vote.
There are some things that they are not allowed to do in Measure 91.
But because it's a legislative session, they're going to be allowed to do what they want.
And so, it's really up to us. We're the ones that voted it through.
We're the ones that wanted it. We're the ones that have been screaming out to be regulated.
Now, we have to hold them accountable in this process.
We have to show up. We have to tell them what we think about what they're doing to our grow limits.
We have to show up and tell them what we think about taxing our medicine or taxing recreational cannabis.
We have to show up and hold these people accountable.
Because if you think they know what they're doing, I want to remind you again,
he called a member of the committee that sat there and said, we are monkeys with a gun.
They are monkeys with a gun, you guys. They do not know what they're doing.
If you saw a monkey with a gun running through this plaza right now, what would you do?
You would try to disarm the monkey and you would run.
You would not just leave the baby unattended with the monkey with the gun.
So, we have a baby, which is our program, which is measure 91.
And we have a committee that's monkeys with a gun.
So, what I need everybody to do is come babysit the monkeys.
They all have our baby and we all have to babysit the babysitters, the monkeys with the gun.
I need everybody to show up in Salem, Mondays and Wednesdays.
This whole next month, they're going into the last bit of the session.
They're tired. They're tired. You can visibly see that they're tired.
We have definitely made an impact.
We need to make sure that we're there the whole rest of the session.
Because last time everybody got tired, we wound up with moratorium all over the state.
126 counties, 36 cities, because people didn't feel like going to Salem.
Well, if you didn't enjoy not having access to your medicine for the last year,
or you lost your job because of moratorium,
maybe we should all just show up and make sure that despite our tiredness,
we hold these people accountable.
So, please come to Salem.
Submit emails. Make phone calls.
Be loud. This is the time that they're listening.
And read the information. There's the Oregon Legislative Information System.
You can go on there. You can look up all of the legislation.
You can read it for yourself. You can form your own opinions.
There's no reason to be under-informed in this community. Not one.
Please be responsible and read the stuff that pertains to you.
There's 40 pieces of legislation right now that pertain to you.
So, we all need to read them. We all need to show up.
We need to hold them accountable.
Please defend the OMA. Please. Please defend your plant limits.
12 plants in a residential area is only 2 people growing in one place.
That's not enough space. It's not enough.
We won't have enough medicine.
And then if they want to have the medical program stimulate the recreational program,
until after outdoor harvest is done, I really see a problem with shortages.
So, you guys, please show up in Salem.
Tell them what you think about what they're doing.
Give your thoughts and your opinions.
And then call them back up and ask them what they thought.
Hold them accountable. Make sure they understand what you're telling them.
And any changes that you have to the legislation,
Representative Buckley has been very, very clear that if you're going to give your thoughts and opinions on the legislation,
he and the other members very much appreciate it if you're very specific on the line item that you're talking about,
because then they can address it more promptly.
So, yes, please show up in Salem. Please hold them accountable.
And come to One Draw Two. They're good people. Get free hash.
Thank you, guys.
