The Oregon Cannabis Tax Act petition will do a lot of different things.
Would you like to talk about that, Paul?
Sure, thanks, Paul.
Our petition, once it becomes enacted,
will enable pharmacies to sell at cost to patients medicinal marijuana.
It will allow our farmers to grow hemp and compete in the world markets.
It will allow individuals to grow their own personal quantities of hemp,
and it will allow the sale of marijuana to people in coffee shops, in bars, and in liquor stores,
just like hard alcohol is sold now.
It's a comprehensive reworking of our laws, as I always like to tell folks.
You know, this initiative is going to raise hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue for the state.
We don't really know exactly how much, but we can say hundreds of millions of dollars,
because I like the sound of that, hundreds of millions of dollars.
Well, also, Paul, I don't want to forget that it's also going to allow us to save money.
We won't be spending so much money on putting people in jail, hiring district attorneys,
hiring police officers, public defenders, judges.
It all adds up.
So we'll be saving money as well as getting tax money off of this.
Hundreds of millions of dollars.
And, you know, we dedicate that money, 90% of it, to the state general fund,
where the legislature can decide how to spend it.
We hope they'll put it toward education.
But the other 10%, 8% of that left, goes to drug treatment programs,
so that alcoholics and other people with substance abuse problems can get the help they need when they need it.
Final 2%, 1%, would go to a comprehensive drug education program for kids in schools,
taught by educational professionals, not by the police like the DARE program is today.
Then that last 1% would go to fund a state agricultural committee to promote industrial hemp
to try to restore its place here in our economy.
All right.
And getting to today's show, which should be a lot of fun for folks, it's a real enjoyable one.
We've got a good interview later on in the show, but coming up first,
we'll have some more scenes of the Million Marijuana March up in Seattle that took place on May Day.
Right.
So right off the bat, we've got an interesting couple of characters here that were singing a song that we found rather humorous.
So roll that tape, please.
It's give weed, it's give weed a chance.
Everybody's talking about suicide.
Everyday, everyday, insane, what the heck, we're taking that.
Yeah, all we are saying,
is give weed a chance.
All we are saying,
is give weed a chance.
What up, Chad? Take it.
The organization and their folks at the Democrats are having a weed party.
It's give weed a chance.
All we are saying,
is give weed a chance.
Everybody's talking about Brian, dying, flying, crying, cocaine, robain, Prozac, Glamelack, everything.
All we are saying,
is give weed a chance.
It's give weed a chance.
All we are saying,
is give weed a chance.
All we are saying,
is give weed a chance.
Smokin', smokin'!
Woo!
Yeah!
That was a great song, folks.
I really enjoyed that song. The whole march was great.
And, gosh, it was just a whole lot of fun being there.
And, Paul, who's the next clip we have?
Well, we've got the Million Marijuana March organization.
You know, at the end of the march, it started out with, I would say, about a thousand folks.
And by the time it finished in downtown Seattle,
it had grown to three or four thousand, is the estimate,
stretching for three or four city blocks through downtown Seattle.
The organizer of the march were the folks that do the Seattle Hemp Fest.
And that's a huge rally that they have every year.
It's going to be up on August 22nd this year, down on the waterfront in Seattle.
But the organizer is Vivian McPeak.
And he was the emcee at the rally after the Million Marijuana March.
So Vivian McPeak, who is also the emcee of the Seattle Hemp Fest,
which generally has about 50,000 people at it the past few years,
is up next on the stage at the Westlake Center in downtown Seattle
at the conclusion of the Million Marijuana March.
Nora Callahan was supposed to be here today.
Nora is the director of the November Coalition out of Colville, Washington.
The November Coalition is one of the most powerful organizations in the country to end the drug war.
It started around 1977, right before the Seattle Hemp Fest that year.
What the November Coalition does is it puts names and faces behind the prisoners,
the POWs of the war on drugs and the war on pot,
and also behind the hidden victims of the war on pot and the war on drugs,
which is the children, the orphans, the wives, the husbands, the brothers and sisters, the parents,
the families of the people whose lives have been destroyed and crushed,
who will spend years, years, years, decades in jail for a harmless, benign, therapeutic herb
which never killed anyone with an overdose, never killed anyone from toxicity, ever.
If somebody tells you different, it's a bold-faced lie.
There's a reason that Nora can't be here today.
Nora's brother Patrick is serving a 23-year prison sentence,
mandatory minimum sentence, no chance of parole.
He was caught in what's called a dry conspiracy.
Under conspiracy laws, you can be sent to prison with absolutely no concrete evidence whatsoever.
You can be sent to prison on hearsay evidence alone,
by paid informants who are already felons, incarcerated,
who have nothing to lose but everything to gain from lying.
Nora's brother Patrick Callahan is in a federal penitentiary on the other side of the country
serving his 23-year sentence, and he's in the late stages of liver disease.
He's not very well.
Now would be a good time to send a healing prayer, a healing thought, a healing vibe
to Patrick and Nora and all of the Patricks and Noras across our planet.
How many people are online? How many people, raise your hand, are online with computers?
Right on. Now put your hands down. How many people are on HempNet as your internet service provider?
That's going to change soon.
Hemp.net is an internet service provider.
It has done all of the web design for Seattle Hemp Fest website.
How many people have seen our website? www.seattlehempfest.com
I introduce you to my good friend and colleague, Robert Lunday, owner and operator of HempNet.
Hello Seattle.
Right here in the middle of Westlake Center, you guys look awesome.
For those of you who attended some of the marches against prohibition last year,
I'm sure you can appreciate the numbers we see here today.
I love you all.
I prepared a little something to say.
Today we've been marching and speaking out against the numerous injustices brought on the American people by the war on drugs.
We may be a diverse group of people with differing opinions on the issue, but one thing is common amongst us all.
The war on drugs has affected the lives of every one of us,
enough so that you're willing to get in the streets and march and say that things have got to change and the drug war is wrong.
We know the drug war is wrong because it's fraught with injustice.
Forfeiture laws are unjust because they allow a home or car to be taken without an individual to be charged with a crime.
Mandatory minimums are unjust because there's no room to consider the circumstances that go along with the rest.
The judge should have that option.
The legislature should not be saying you go to jail for 10 years because you are related or heard about a drug bust.
And the cannabis prohibition is unjust.
Our laws are hypocrisy.
It's hypocrisy that we can drink alcohol, which kills hundreds of people every year, hundreds of thousands.
It's hypocrisy that you can legally smoke nicotine, and yet it kills hundreds of thousands of people every year.
And yet I'll stand here and say you have the right to do that.
You should as a free American be able to consume nicotine, to drink alcohol, and smoke pot.
So what's the result of this unjust war?
Well, for example, there's a Mr. Gray who was a U.S. Marine for five years.
He went off and served this country in the Gulf War.
He came back with numerous unexplainable illnesses, uncontrollable vomiting.
He went to the VA hospital 20 times.
They prescribed numerous legal drugs, none of them which could help him.
So finally he turned, like many sufferers of the Gulf War syndrome do, to marijuana, and he found relief.
And how do we thank him?
We steal his fucking house.
It's wrong. It's wrong.
Another injustice is the Eastside Narcotics Task Force.
We allow them to engage in terrorist tactics, destroying homes, and traumatizing children house after house after house.
It's unjust.
It's unjust that Will Foster, who grows marijuana for his own personal medical reason, should be sentenced to 93 years in jail in Oklahoma.
The drug war needs to change.
80% of our forfeitures occur where no individual was charged with a crime.
I think this is such an injustice, and we don't have to look farther than our own law of Washington to see the problems with this law.
So I'm going to read the three pillars of the Washington state forfeiture law.
Tenet number one, and this is in the Hemp Voters Guide if you saw this last year.
Number one, in cases involving personal property, the burden of producing evidence shall be upon the person claiming to be the lawful owner of the property.
That's you. That's not the cops.
If they plan something, it's up to you to prove it.
If your friend has a joint in your car, and they take your car, it's your responsibility to prove it.
There's no due process in that, and there's no justice in that.
So why does it happen?
We look at the next two pillars of the Washington state forfeiture law.
Number two is, each seizing agency shall remit to the state treasurer an amount equal to 10% of the net proceeds of any of the property forfeited.
And the final pillar, what happens to the other 90%?
Forfeited property and the net proceeds not required to be paid to the state treasurer shall be retained by the seizing law enforcement agency.
That is an invitation for corruptness.
It is no longer a balanced justice system that we're supposed to have in the United States.
The forfeiture laws and the drug war needs to change.
They're stealing it!
Alright, and I hope you enjoyed another little flavor of that day up in Seattle, the Million Marijuana March.
It was a great sunny day. There was perfect weather for the march.
People had a lot of fun, as you could see.
Good stuff going on.
Good speakers.
And why don't you tell us a little about the whole idea behind the Million Marijuana March, Paul?
Well, you know, it has a long history.
It's been called the Million Marijuana March for about the past three years.
And up until this year, it had just taken place in New York City.
It had a history in New York City going back to like 1970 as Fifth Avenue made a pot parade.
Put on by the Yippies, the group started by Abbie Hoffman and Jerry Rubin back in the 60s.
But anyway, they've been doing the march there.
But back in about 1995, when they had the Million Man March by the Nation of Islam,
they started calling it the Million Marijuana March.
And this year was the first time that they had broken out into other cities.
And in fact, there were marches taking place all over the world.
And in fact, there were marches taking place all over the world.
In Amsterdam, and Auckland, New Zealand, and Sydney, Australia, and San Francisco, and New York, of course, Chicago.
I can't even begin to name all the cities that this thing was going on in.
And maybe it did approach a million people when you talked about it on a worldwide scale.
You know, that's what I heard, that it did approach a million.
I think that's great.
You know, that's the whole idea behind it.
It never had a million.
This year, they had a million marchers across the world speaking up for marijuana.
And I'm hoping next year on May Day, it'll grow even bigger.
So remember that date, folks.
May Day next year.
Take part in the Million Marijuana March on May Day of next year.
Something else you can take part in.
You know, we're circulating the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act petition.
This will allow adults to legally buy marijuana through the state liquor stores.
Bars and other shops that get the license will be able to serve marijuana the same way they serve mixed alcoholic drinks.
It will also allow farmers to cultivate the drug for sales to the Oregon Liquor Control Commission.
The Oregon Liquor Control Commission would sell it through pharmacies, both in Oregon and outside, at cost.
Where it just covered the cost of the agency and the farmer's expenses.
And then it would sell it at a profit through our state liquor stores and raise lots of money.
So it would also allow adults to grow their own and allow farmers to cultivate industrial hemp without a license.
So that they could produce paper, fabric, protein, oil, fuel, and 50,000 different products.
So we need your help to put this important issue on the ballot.
You know, if you can help us petition in public, if you can help us in our office, if you can help us on our phone banks.
If you just want to get the petition just so you can sign it yourself, call us.
And what's that number?
Area code 503-235-4606. That's 235-4606.
Call us. We have voicemail if we're not right there.
And you can also look at our website. It's won most of the major website awards from Netscape, What's Cool, and so on.
But you can print our petition out from the internet. You can watch this TV show on the internet.
You can watch a hundred different videos.
But you can get our petition directly through the internet at www.crrh.org.
So now we're going to go into another segment of our interview with the Dean Emeritus of Oregon Health Sciences University, Dr. John Benson.
Dr. Benson was also one of the two principal co-investigators for the National Academy of Sciences Institute of Medicine report that was issued in March 1999 called Marijuana and Medicine, Assessing the Science Base.
And this is a real good interview. It gets technical at times, goes into a lot of the details behind the pharmacology of cannabis and its use as a medicinal agent.
So I guess we'll just run right into that. Hope you enjoy it.
Some of the people who are on the panel, I recall that Israeli scientist, I think his name is Rafael Makula.
He's the one who discovered THC about 25 years ago and then discovered the receptor sites, or at least worked on the team.
Worked on those and has also been involved in some of the endogenous cannabinoids, the natural substances we all have in our brains and bodies as well. Still very active.
Right.
Excuse me, are those comparable to endorphins or...?
They're a different group of chemicals, also endogenous though, that use different receptors.
There are different receptors for the opioids, morphine and codeine, those two substances.
So the endorphins are among these agents that help energize the neurons to put out transmitters in various centers of the brain.
And cannabinoids, or the components of the marijuana leaf, are yet another system, pharmacological system.
So that endogenous system, I think they call it the endorphin-like substance, it's ananamides, is that the proper...?
Anandamide is the one that is best developed. It also uses the so-called CB1 receptor, cannabinoid 1 receptor, such as THC does.
And then there's another one that's 2AG, arachidonial glycerol, which is another of these endogenous cannabinoid-like substances.
Have they identified the primary action of this receptor system?
There are many actions, actually. The receptors have been identified and cloned, actually,
and they can be sited or located in various parts of the brain that have to do with pain perception, with movement control,
with control of vomiting, with warm and pleasant feelings, with sedation, and so forth.
They're very common throughout the brain.
So that there is a definite, what shall we say, therapeutic action of these substances, would that be...?
Well, I wouldn't say...
The actions that you mentioned seem to me to be therapeutic, or could be therapeutic.
Well, they might be exploited for therapeutic uses, that's correct, because there are these systems in place.
And that's the reason, I'm sure, that people have found some utility for the use of these cannabinoid substances.
Before the president of the Institute of Medicine asked you to be a co-investigator,
can you tell us about the process that led up to the Institute of Medicine conducting this inquiry?
Yes. The White House Office of National Drug Control Policy, which is directed by Barry McCaffrey,
asked the Institute to consider such a study, and was willing to fund it.
About the same time, a major foundation also thought this would be worthy of study,
but the Institute thought it better, and so did apparently General McCaffrey, if only the one sponsor were responsible.
And so a proposal was made to his office by the Institute staff, which led to a statement of task, so-called,
and then the funding of the study.
What was the mandate from the Office of National Drug Control Policy?
Didn't they exclude... they just wanted the medical report, nothing to do with science or social policy?
No, the science, yes. They wanted the scientific basis for any benefits or harms that might come
from the medical use of marijuana or its component substances.
And we were not restricted, but we were not picked either,
to address issues of social, legislative, regulatory, etc., kinds of considerations.
I think it would have been a very different statement of task and a very different group.
It would not have included me.
Were you involved at all? I know that the Institute of Medicine produced a report 15 years before,
regarding marijuana, not specifically as medicine.
There was...
You must have reviewed that.
Oh, absolutely. I was not. That was in 1982.
And it was frustrated by the lack of clear science, rigorous experimentation,
and called repeatedly for research in various fields.
In the meantime, there's been an explosion of knowledge in the basic science field.
All of these anandamide and receptors and neurotransmitters
and sighting of these things in various control areas in the brain have been elaborated.
So we were at a distinct advantage over the people who did that study.
And we hope we carried things a bit further because of that new science.
Could you address that explosion in science and discovery of the receptor system a bit for our audience?
Well, it really was the identification of the receptors themselves,
cloning them, sighting them wherever they were found, both in the brain and peripherally.
The CB2, the cannabinoid 2 receptor, is primarily in the immune system and more peripheral nervous system.
And CB1 is primarily in the brain.
These endogenous cannabinoid-like substances that I've mentioned were elaborated
and a good deal of just straight pharmacology done on them
so that we had the advantage of, for example, showing the effects in animals on pain
and showing the effects on control of motion, things of that nature, from these basic science advances.
They were really quite remarkable and pretty exciting to an internist clinician like myself.
I had no idea they had existed.
Could they be...
I hope you found that informative. I really did.
And I'm glad that we were able to interview him.
So, in closing here on our show, don't forget to call us again if you want to help us out.
Put our initiative on the bell, the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act.
Our phone number is 235-4606.
And again, Paul, what we'll do in a little thumbnail sketch?
It will regulate the sale of marijuana to adults in state liquor stores, let people grow their own,
let doctors prescribe it through pharmacies, and finally, allow farmers to cultivate industrial hemp.
So give us a call at 235-4606.
I'd like to also thank Dr. Philip Levesque for helping with the interview with Dr. Benson.
They're the Dean Emeritus at Oregon Health Science University.
So thanks, Dr. Levesque, who is also, along with Paul and I, Chief Petitioner on this petition.
That's right. So if you want to help us, put this on the ballot.
That's 235-4606.
The website is www.crrh.org.
So check out the website, give us a phone call, help us out if you can.
You know, Paul and I and Dr. Levesque and our whole film crew, we all do this on a volunteer basis.
So we really need your help to help change this marijuana law. So call us.
Yeah, we don't want to sound like pitch people up here, but many hands make light work.
So help us, and thanks for watching, and I hope you found this informative.
And next week, tune back in for more of the Million Marijuana March from Seattle
and more of this great interview with the Dean of Oregon Health Sciences University, Dr. John Benson.
So that's right. Next week, once again, we'll be informative and we'll be entertaining.
Thanks for watching and have a good night.
It's Give Weed a Chance
We are saying
It's Give Weed a Chance
Everybody's talking about Brian Donahue
