Make some noise if you like weed.
What about if you like marijuana?
I love them both. It's time to legalize cannabis.
You know it used to be legal until 1937.
The founding fathers, Jefferson, Washington, all those guys, they grew it, they smoked it.
The Declaration of Independence was originally written on hemp paper.
Cannabis, right? Better paper than trees.
Better fabric than cotton.
And you can smoke it and talk about shit.
Life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
Write that down.
That's why John Hancock's signature is so big.
Because he was high as hell.
You feel me? You have to be high to fly a kite in a thunderstorm.
Ben Franklin smoked a lot of weed.
Right? The national bird is the bald eagle.
What bird did Ben Franklin want for the national bird?
The turkey. He's a stoner.
Ben, the eagle flies graceful, free, and majestic above the clouds.
Yeah, but you can eat a turkey, brother.
And there's John Hancock. Shit, I'll sign for that. I'm starving.
Marijuana makes you a better cook anyway.
I'm a good cook because I smoke weed. I don't have any money.
I will invent shit to eat.
Right? Right.
We got Bisquick and peanut butter.
We got peanut butter rolls coming in 10 to 12 minutes.
I looked in the pantry one time. We had marshmallows, margarine, and Top Ramen.
I'm making ramen treats.
Ramen treats.
They were hella good.
Don't use the flavor packet.
That'll F it up. It's not savory.
I know you guys know what Top Ramen is.
Portland.
Portland.
Hell yeah.
I had an upscale crowd one time.
I said Top Ramen. They just stared at me. I had to break it down.
I was like, well, y'all know Cup O' Noodles, right?
Uh-huh.
Well, I can't afford a freaking cup.
I'm just trying to get on noodles.
So you know what I'm talking about.
You ever been so poor you went through your couch again?
If you had a couch.
I go through my friends' couches. I just invite myself over.
Steal money off the table.
Brilliant.
Work stone, not hard. That's what I always say.
If you smoke a lot of weed, if marijuana is no longer a hobby,
if it has become a lifestyle, you have to take steps.
You have to be proactive like this.
When it's time to renew my driver's license picture, I get high as hell.
You feel me?
I pull into the parking lot of the DMV, and I hotbox the shit out of my car,
and then I go take my picture.
Because I want them to think that I look like that all the goddamn time.
Right?
So when they pull me over, what seems to be the trouble?
You can go, sir.
You understand?
