Thank you Todd.
Paul Stanford came up here from Oregon and he is with the Hemp and Cannabis Foundation, the THC Foundation.
They are the event sponsor of HempFest this year.
So THC Foundation presents Seattle HempFest.
He's also the author and chief petitioner of the Tax and Regulate Bill in Oregon.
Give a warm Seattle welcome to Paul Stanford.
Thank you Vivian.
Most inspirational speaker in Hemp.
Hey Seattle HempFest, wake up it's almost 420.
Are you ready?
It's coming pretty quick.
You know we have helped in our clinics almost 100,000 people get a legal medical marijuana permit.
How many of you out there have got one?
Raise your hands if you have a legal medical.
If you have one of those conditions, hey give us a call.
We have doctors who can help you all across this state.
We want to see more and more patients become legal.
Especially if they have a condition.
But you know that's not the end all and be all.
There's nothing I would like better than to see our medical clinics become kind of a side issue.
And I want to see complete legal marijuana for every adult.
I want to see us all able to grow our own crop.
Where we don't have to go down and get a license.
It's just a God given right to be able to grow the plant that produces more fiber, more protein, more oil than any other plant on this planet.
So we're working to do that through our political committee.
If you want to find out more about it go to hemp.org.
That's H-E-M-P dot org.
We have an initiative petition we're pushing in Oregon for 2010 to end adult marijuana prohibition.
And restore industrial hemp.
If we get it on the ballot and win the election, which is a hard one, then marijuana be legal January 1st, 2011.
Just a year and a half from now.
You know the Berlin Wall fell very very quickly.
And I think we can end marijuana prohibition.
We've been waiting a couple generations to see some progress on this.
And finally it's moving forward.
So go to hemp.org, get involved in the movement to end adult marijuana prohibition.
And stop putting honest Americans in prison for supporting a plant that can save the planet.
I want to thank you all for coming.
Thanks for having us.
And restore hemp.
D. Paul Stanford from the Hemp and Cannabis Foundation.
Seattle Hemp Fest event sponsor this year.
