Vivian, volunteers, thank you for this incredible party that you've been throwing for 24 years.
And I've been lucky enough to be a part of it ever since.
And many times I have been here right after the National Anthem,
sometimes with Chris Conrad, the African American Jack Baird,
and Mickey Norris and so many of us through the years.
But that's what it has taken for these laws to be changing in the country, as they are changing.
I am celebrating my 40th anniversary of being a medical marijuana patient,
and all I can do is thank the universe, the creator, and all of you.
Because I would not have any sight today if you hadn't shown me the way.
I was not a recreational smoker, but folks, I've made up for that since.
Make no mistake, I am one of us.
We are the largest segment in this world.
We belong to every segment of society, here and abroad.
I have done every single state in the United States,
plus Canada, Finland, Norway, Switzerland, the Netherlands,
and I've never been anywhere where I haven't met beautiful people that I consider my family.
All of you, all of the beautiful people on this planet,
smoke cannabis or use cannabis, or praise the creator for giving us cannabis.
Now we've got to end federal laws because they are interfering with the planet's growth,
with the people developing.
They are not accessing their endocannabinoid system, so they're no longer healthy as they ought to be.
One of every three of us is having some cancer.
There is an epitome of disease going on that can't be helped now.
In the states where marijuana has been legal,
we have dropped the deaths by overdoses from chemical drugs,
and that is a blessing that we need to talk wherever we go
because we need to change the laws in more than half the country already.
We have something going too, not a penny on 420.
If you're in a state that needs to change laws on 420, fast to learn,
nobody spends a penny on anything except hemp, cannabis, marijuana.
That's it. Not a penny on 420. Don't forget it.
Now, about the drug overdoses,
it is my pleasure to see how many people have gotten off of those drugs
and that you're all doing well.
But do remember, if you're getting off of hard drugs,
whether they are pharmaceutically prescribed or otherwise,
do not go cold turkey if you've got responsibilities and work to do
because you may harm yourself, but you sure as heck will harm others around you.
Please be responsible, but keep up the good work,
and yes, stay healthy.
So, that's so beautiful, but you need to get to your president now,
all of you, and have your letters signed by your relatives and your friends.
Give him so many letters that he can't hide anymore
and he has to come out and sign that executive order
that will restore constitutional rights for the best part of this society.
Thank you. Keep up the good work.
May God bless you and may the true spirit of love always be your guiding light.
Love you.
I love you too!
I don't know if you know it, but Elvie, for many years,
is one of the only people in the United States
that gets a big can of joints from the federal government mailed to her.
And this is a prescription, not a recommendation,
and it is way past for me to do it,
and I am supposed to do it at least every two hours.
So, thank you.
Yay, Elvie!
Thank you.
Elvie's part of a pilot program. What year did it start, Elvie? The 70s?
The 70s, and I've been on it.
I'm celebrating my 27th anniversary of establishing a medical defense
for the state of Florida, who needs help desperately.
They tell you that Florida is legal for marijuana. That's a lie.
There is a defense because of my case,
but you still have to go to jail, find an attorney.
You need to change that, too, all over the country.
I know you will. You've done it so far.
