It's so great to be here. My name is Ted Wheeler.
I've got to say, it excites me to have been here today to talk to some of the cannabis industry leaders,
some of the cannabis industry entrepreneurs.
I am enthusiastic because they are excited, they're pumped, they're visionary,
and they're excited about the economic opportunity of this industry for our state, for our region,
and of course for the great city of Portland.
The people of this community, as you just heard, overwhelmingly voted for a legal, regulated, taxed cannabis industry.
And as long as I am the treasurer for the state of Oregon, which is only about seven months,
and as a candidate for mayor of Portland, I promise you that I'm going to do everything I can
to uphold the will of the voters in this community.
I think there's a great amount of energy here today.
This is a pivotal time for our country, for our state, for our city.
But folks, let's be honest, there's a lot more that we need to do.
I've heard from so many of the entrepreneurs about the importance of making sure that Portland
retains its place as a respectful and open community to the industry.
If we do that, what's going to happen is people are going to want to open businesses here,
they will want to employ people here, and that can only be a good thing for our economy.
Let's also understand that under Measure 91, there were rights that are ascribed to medical marijuana patients.
They deserve a safe, respectful, indoor location to consume.
That was the intention of Measure 91, and we should work hard to uphold that intention.
We also need to acknowledge that the entrepreneurs that were here today, only a year ago,
they were criminals, and they were treated as such under Oregon law.
And we have to acknowledge that there is a path here to help make sure that Fresh Start Oregon,
which was created with the legislature and other efforts, including expunging over thousands of records,
criminal records that were non-violent in 2015, is help getting people back to where we need to be as a strong community.
At the end of the day, here's what we've got to do. We've got to acknowledge the cannabis industry for what it is.
It is legal, it is regulated, it is taxed, and it's a tremendous opportunity to uplift our community,
help get people employed, reduce income disparity, which we all know is growing across our nation, our state, and our community.
And it can be a great boon to our community done right and done well.
And as your mayor, I'm pledging to do that.
