It's time for Cannabis Common Sense, the show that tells you the truth about marijuana and
the politics behind its prohibition.
And now here's the host of your show, Paul Stanford and Paul Loney.
Hello and welcome to another exciting edition of Cannabis Common Sense.
Right over here we have Paul Loney, who is our political committee's treasurer and an attorney.
Here we have Dr. Fred Orthor.
Hi Paul.
And is a guest and a long time activist for freedom here in the state.
I'm Paul Stanford. Welcome to the show.
Yeah, and this show was brought to you by our political action committee, the Campaign for the Restoration and Regulation of Hemp.
It's an all-volunteer effort and exists solely to put the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act on a ballot,
which exists solely to get back some of our freedoms, which allow us to enjoy cannabis recreationally,
hand it out as medicine through pharmacies, and allow our farmers to grow industrial hemp.
Yeah, the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act would allow the state to make some money just the way they make money off beer,
liquor, and tobacco in terms of taxing it through the state liquor store system, like they do with distilled alcohol.
If the state would license farmers to cultivate the drug for sales to the state commission,
then the state commission would distribute it at cost to pharmacies and to the liquor stores where they'd make a profit.
It would also allow farmers to cultivate industrial hemp, and hemp, as many of our viewers know,
produces more fiber for clothing and textiles and paper, and more oil for fuel and food,
and more protein than any other plant on this planet.
So our job here is to stop the war on drugs, and we're trying to do that using our most powerful tool, the pen,
through the initiative process, and we need your help.
So we urge you to give us a call, add our number, which is right there on your screen.
It's 235-4607 in the Portland area, and if you're outside of the Portland area, just dial 503-235-4606.
We'll send you our newspaper and our petitions because we want to get you involved.
There's a bunch of different ways to get involved outside of petitioning, too, including transporting people to events,
data entry, delivering newspapers, but most of all, we want to get you involved, right, Paul?
Yeah, and it's very simple to gather signatures.
Just the other day, Paul and I went out with a new person, and within half an hour, he had picked it up
and was raring to go the next day out by himself, and it's fun.
You're actually out there, you're meeting people, it's a good place to people watch,
and it's amazing to find out how many people don't care about their own personal lives out there.
He asked them if they're, you know, if you want to sign an initiative, they don't even say no.
They don't even ask what the initiative is.
They have no, they don't care about their own political rights anymore.
They're just, like, too involved in themselves to do anything about it, you know, because they're just,
it's that, you know, our society has taught us to go inward and not think about anything else.
Voting is just one way of democracy.
You know, democracy is really power in the people and not two wolves and a sheep voting on the menu,
which is what it's become, right?
They call it majoritarianism.
But politics and voting, you vote a lot of ways.
You vote with dollars, you vote with your feet, you vote with ballots,
and if it comes to it, sometimes in some jurisdictions they've voted with bullets.
They did here a couple hundred years ago, 1776,
and the initiative process is a way to peacefully participate in the political process,
and under the theories that we call our own, we're supposed to be able to change the rules under which we live,
and that's...
Well, you know, I like to tell people that petitioning is one of the most effective
and effectiveness-oriented activities that you can take.
I know on a previous show I've given this analogy that I think,
if you don't exercise your political rights, you lose your political rights.
And just like any other type of exercise, if you don't do it, you're going to lose that power.
And if you look at voting, voting is a very important activity,
and I wouldn't want to say to denigrate it at all,
but I think voting is like lifting a two-pound weight.
And if you're going to write to your congressman or write to your local newspaper,
that's like exercising and lifting a five-pound weight.
If you're going to get a petition, though, and circulate it among your family and friends,
well, now you're exercising with a ten-pound weight.
The most effective thing you can do is to go out in public and meet people you don't know,
and if you do it with a group of us, it's fun,
and you have people tell you how grateful they are that you're there doing that.
And that, to me, is like lifting a hundred-pound weight
in comparison to the different ways we can exercise our political rights.
I like that metaphor.
When I started petitioning, I wasn't very good.
I knew what I knew, but I couldn't express what I knew.
And by the time I had talked to a thousand people and explained what I was about,
I refined my explanation down to a very few, very succinct, cogent, correct words.
And after I'd listened to a thousand stories, I knew what it was,
and I was able to respond to people's concerns.
What are their common questions around this issue?
And to me, it was invaluable political training.
For me, it was better than going down to hang out in Salem doing that kind of apprenticeship.
I know that you did an apprenticeship sort of this summer.
You were in the legislative system.
I did.
I tried to go in there and stop this darn recrim bill,
and I guess I didn't do enough or the fates were lined up against us.
It's all a process.
You know, you can't be goal-oriented.
You can't stop Leviathan.
You can't stop the locomotive.
You were down there honing your skills.
You were down there putting a little pressure on.
It all counts.
That's what politics is about.
I wanted to have you talk a little bit about something in your intro you talked about.
What happened when they ended alcohol prohibition?
Remember we had like 13 or 14 years, 29 to 33, to end alcohol prohibition.
And what did they do at the end of prohibition?
What they did was they set up what I call non-criminal distribution, basically.
And you've addressed that in the thing about the liquor stores,
and I wish you'd tell me a little bit more about how that's going to work.
Because there has to be non-criminal distribution.
There's going to have to be that mechanism somehow.
It's going to have to be set up and worked,
and it's going to have to be made fair and all of those things.
Okay, well, what would happen is this.
A farmer who is interested in cultivating the drug for sale would get a license
from what is currently the Oregon Liquor Control Commission.
However, the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act, our initiative petition,
changes the name of the OLCC to the OICC, the Oregon Intoxicant Control Commission,
using the term intoxicant to represent what both liquor and marijuana do to people.
And so we decided to skew the term drugs because that might include pharmaceuticals.
Well, anyway, a farmer who is interested in that would apply for a license.
The state would determine how much it needs to purchase in a given period.
Then the state would equitably distribute the license among the applicants,
and they would buy either the maximum amount the farmer would grow
or they would buy approximately the same amount from the different farmers.
Now, according to specifically the single convention treaty,
the state has to have a commission,
and the single convention treaty is an international treaty
that governs the way controlled substances can be sold by the signatories,
and it has over 100 different nations that have signed up to it.
It's not a good treaty by any means, and personally I'd like to see it repealed,
but it's a structure that we first have to work in,
and the way to repeal it is to go to the United States Senate and have them repeal it.
Well, it's a real hard job to go to your 100 U.S. senators
and get them to do something like that,
so here we tried to write our initiative in compliance with that treaty so that it would be upheld.
According to that treaty, the state has to collect the entire crop within four months of harvest.
So the cannabis would be harvested by the farmers,
and then it might be processed into cigarettes or any one of a number of things,
and so processors would have it, but within four months of harvest,
the state would take control of that and then distribute it to pharmacies for medical need,
and it would be at cost for pharmacies.
It wouldn't be taxed, and it would sell it through the 270-store liquor storage system
that we have here in the state of Oregon.
Here in Oregon, we're one of the 26 states that has a state-controlled storage system
for distilled alcohol products,
and rather than creating a new infrastructure to comply with these international treaties,
we decided to work within the existing structure.
So the state would take control of it and put it in the state liquor stores.
However, our initiative allows individuals to cultivate their own marijuana without a license,
and it also makes it illegal to prohibit any specific strain of seed or cuttings.
So if you wanted to go to your local garden store and pick out the variety you want
or the seed that you want, the trade in seeds and starts is not regulated,
but the trade in the drug is.
Basically, it's like wine and beer.
If you want to brew your own beer or make your own wine, you don't need a license to be able to do that.
But if you want to brew enough beer or make enough wine to sell, and you want to sell it,
then you've got to get a license, and the government's going to come in
and make certain you're applying the laws that the legislature has enacted.
Does that explain it?
Is there anything that's missing here?
Yeah, we have, again, in short, a non-criminal distribution system.
It's set up.
We have the skeleton or the outline or the ‑‑ it's already there.
Does the single convention deal with alcohol as a substance?
No.
So that's out of the ‑‑
Exactly, the purview of the single convention.
It's not a scheduled drug.
And tobacco also is not a scheduled drug.
No, not at all.
It's not even considered a drug yet, even though the settlement with the tobacco companies.
Well, no, in the U.S. now, the FDA has the authority to regulate tobacco as a drug.
It is a drug.
Okay, so we should see some interesting things.
You know, if it was health and safety, as somebody pointed out not too long ago,
they would be confiscating the homes and cars and money of people who use alcohol and tobacco
or who buy and sell alcohol and tobacco.
And that's the prohibition approach.
And they have chosen not to do it at all, as far as tobacco is concerned, until recently.
And that's 400,000 deaths a year, according to ‑‑
Yeah, yeah.
Mortuary statistics.
Yeah, 400, yeah, far more than alcohol.
Yeah, alcohol, you get 100,000 deaths a year.
But for marijuana, zip, zilch, zero, folks.
Even if you believe their numbers, all illegal drugs put together is less than 5,000, something like that.
Yeah, because very few people actually die from illegal drugs.
They die from poor nutrition because they're doing illegal drugs.
Pharmaceutical drugs, though, like 20 to 50,000 a year.
Well, it's the same thing, though, pharmaceutical drugs.
People have poor nutrition and they're doing pharmaceutical drugs.
But it's from all the side effects, the impurities that they mix with these drugs.
Like even these days with cannabis, you never know what's sprayed on cannabis.
I mean, for anybody who's a consumer out there, that's the scary part.
You don't know what somebody's sprayed on.
So in light of that, I'd like to point out that the Organ Cannabis Tax Act takes that into consideration.
The cannabis that is sold has to be graded and tested for adulterants.
And the packages have to say what adulterants, what additives are included in that cannabis.
If you look at tobacco, we all know they put saltpeter in there to make them burn.
They actually put a little bit of ammonia in there to release the nicotine
and make it pass through the blood air membranes in your lungs.
They put in, I've heard, upwards to, I don't know, what is it, 400 different chemicals in a tobacco cigarette.
But you'll never find that written on any pack of tobacco cigarettes.
What they do is they chop it up and they put it into a sludge and they add a bunch of stuff to it and then they dry it out.
Well, according to the Organ Cannabis Tax Act, if they wanted to do something like that with cannabis,
they'd have to list every single additive.
And they would have to warn of the health danger of any that have harmful effects, known harmful effects to human health.
They brought it on themselves.
When I was a kid, 50 years ago, we all called cigarettes, we called coffin nails.
Everybody knew that one cigarette took a day off your life, or an hour.
Everybody knew that. That was common knowledge.
It was vernacular proof.
And they've gotten away with that for years.
They run that scam, well, science hasn't proven.
Well, yes, nobody asks science.
They ask shills, and shills said, oh, no, there's nothing.
But, you know, they have not treated tobacco very well.
The thing I find historically interesting about alcohol prohibition is we had prohibition from 29 to 33.
And historically, to me, it looks like for the next 50 years after alcohol prohibition was repealed,
that the public attitude was so bad about anybody that talked about alcohol,
that we couldn't publicly recognize that hundreds of thousands of people were dying or being injured in drunk driving accidents every year.
That people were dying of cirrhosis.
The people that brought these problems up were ignored because of that 13 years of moral grandeur that they called alcohol prohibition,
with gangs, with increasing federal enroachment into the lives of private citizens, and also into local politics.
The feds got big into local law enforcement and politics in prohibition.
And it took 50 years before society as a whole and our rulers as a group could begin to address the problem of alcohol consumption.
It wasn't just that.
I think because if you look back, when they repealed prohibition, it was a two-part thing.
As usual, the government always gets a second part.
Part number one, repeal prohibition.
Part number two, there was to be a massive education campaign to the American public about the dangers of the use of alcohol,
which is to be funded by the alcohol companies.
But that was the agreement.
But the next day, they axed part B.
It happens all the time.
Now, I'm not going to.
But that's where the real problem was.
And that's why the abuse to this day reigns with alcohol, which is why among our children, that's the highest drug they abuse is alcohol.
But with the Oregon Campus Tax Act, it's a different story.
Yeah, we wrote the tax act to specifically distribute the profits and the taxes that will be the state's windfall when they tax and regulate the cannabis market.
You know, right now, marijuana is the number one cash crop here in the United States.
And in Oregon, it's the number one cash crop by probably the largest factor in the United States, with the possible exception of Hawaii.
Here in Oregon, we have one of the highest per capita production rates of cannabis.
What our initiative will do is it would bring in that money out of the black market and put it on the table for all of us to see, and the state would have a share in that.
You know, in 1989, the DEA said that that was $2.6 billion.
The price of marijuana has about doubled since 1989.
So it might have gone up.
Maybe production has gone down.
It's very difficult to gauge these things.
But let's say that we could bring in 20% of that.
If we could bring in 20% of $2.6 billion, we're talking $500 million.
That by far dwarfs the amount of money that's coming in from the lottery.
The lottery proceeds are projected over two years, where this would just be a single year.
Over a two-year biennium, as our financial and fiscal statements are made by state government, we'd be talking about a billion dollars or maybe a tenth or more of total state revenue.
Well, Paul, I thought you were going to get into the fact that Oregon County Tax Act put all that aside, that we direct money to go into treatment programs and education.
That's the important thing.
It doesn't matter what the money figures are because people will always argue with us.
But if we can point to the fact that we're going to direct proceeds to treatment programs and education programs so that people will be able to get help if they want help.
Well, 90% of the proceeds would go into the state general fund as revenue for state programs.
But then 8% would go into drug treatment programs.
Right now, alcoholics and addicts are turned away 90% of the time when they seek help.
Usually, they only can get that help after they've been found guilty of some other crime.
Well, our initiative would increase funding for that by several times.
And 8% of the total proceeds would go into substance abuse treatment programs.
1% would go into funding and creating a comprehensive and realistic drug education program for kids.
And then the final 1% would go into a state agricultural committee to promote industrial hemp.
Since hemp has been repressed and many people, myself included, believe that the whole marijuana smokescreen, pun intended,
was created to divert attention away from the fact that hemp produces more fiber, protein, and oil than any other crop.
We think that 1% of the proceeds from the profit of the sale of the drug going to reestablish this vital and sustainable industry is quite appropriate.
We think it will help put Oregon on the cutting edge of exciting new developments and technologies that are truly sustainable.
Well, yeah, I believe that we can't, just as we can't throw all sorts of wild numbers about tax proceeds coming from this,
we don't know what the industrial hemp market would be.
Because it's been so long, we've been caught up in this cult of modernity.
We said, okay, now we can have petroleum, now we can have plastics, we can have cotton.
And people were so excited by new modern things, they forgot hemp.
Because hemp also became, that was for the low class, people wore hemp clothes.
The upper classes wore silk and then cotton.
And so it became sort of this thing like only the lower class people would wear it and would use it as a fiber,
and then only lower class people would use it as an intoxicant.
And that's where you have to get back away from.
Right, either that or we all got a cop to being low class people.
Yeah.
And we're not.
And we're not.
You bet we're not.
But we've got to learn again what hemp can do for us.
We've forgotten.
And that's what it comes down to.
If there's to be even a halfway chance of saving the remaining trees
and putting the farmland into useful service, hemp is the way to do it.
Until about 140 years ago, over 90% of all the world's paper was made from hemp.
Of course, remember, 140 years ago, there was very little paper in this world.
Yeah, there was a lot less.
Yeah, so when people start throwing those numbers around,
I just want to put that in perspective that we just don't know what industrial hemp will do for us
because we haven't used it in so long.
It's time to experiment.
I know my household is active.
We read a lot.
We write a lot and so forth.
But we're jacking out the equivalent of 20 foot of tree every two weeks in terms of newsprint.
Three foot of newsprint is 20 foot of tree.
And every two weeks we're firing out 20 foot of tree.
And I'm appalled.
We cut down and we recycle, and I'm just appalled between the mail, the newspaper,
and then the computer paper and the advertisements, the stuffers.
There's that much thick clay paper in the Oregonian when it comes by.
The shiny stuff weighs almost as much as the paper itself.
But there's a tremendous amount of trees going up the chimney that need not.
There are other sources of pulp and fiber.
Now, some numbers that I do like to refer back to are the United States Department of Agriculture studies
that were done at the turn of this century.
In 1916, the U.S. Department of Agriculture began looking at hemp herds,
which were traditionally a waste material.
Hemp was traditionally grown for the bark or the bast fiber that's the outer part of the stalk.
The interior part of the stalk, the hemp herds, were a waste material that was used as animal bedding
or sometimes burned as a fuel.
But with the introduction of the decorticating machine at the turn of this century,
that waste material could be collected much more efficiently than it could previously be done
when the bast fiber was separated by hand.
In 1916, the United States Department of Agriculture did a bulletin, USDA Bulletin 404.
The name of that bulletin was Hemp Herds as a Paper-Making Material.
And in that, they said to provide a mill that makes 100 tons of paper a day.
By today's standard, 100 tons of paper a day is a very small mill.
But by those standards, it was an average mill back at the turn of this century.
To provide that mill with enough trees to feed the mill would take 40,500 acres.
To provide that same mill with this waste product from producing hemp bast fiber
and hemp seed oil and protein would take just 10,000 acres under cultivation.
Now that's according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Bulletin 404.
Admittedly, it's a dated document, and agricultural techniques have improved since then.
But those techniques haven't been in practice with hemp.
So we really don't know what it would do today.
To go back, it's time to experiment once again.
And pun intended there once again, we have to experiment with hemp to find out what it can do for us.
And we have forgotten as a society, and it's time to say, okay, let's do it.
And that's why we have the Oregon Camera Tax Act, asking folks out there to get out there and petition.
It's the fun thing to do.
You get out with friends, and it's amazing how quickly time goes by
and how many signatures you can get in a hurry.
If nothing else, get your family to sign this and your few friends.
The best thing to do is come out and petition at some summer event, concerts, waterfront parks, or at malls.
And there's also out there now the Oregon Drug Control Amendment put out by the American Anti-Prohibition League.
And then there's a referendum on the recriminalization bill.
So help us out.
And what's our phone number?
Now's the time to get active.
What's our phone number?
Our phone number, which is on the screen.
You call it if you're in the Portland area.
It's 235-4606.
If you're outside of the Portland area and you're watching this, it's 1503-235-4606.
And if you're on the Internet, you can just pull our petitions and everything off the web at www.crrh.org.
Get those petitions because that's the way you can have a real impact.
And it's the most highly effective activity you could take to stop the buildup of coercive police power in America.
That's what I think.
Yeah, and initiatives, all these so-called political consultants and politicians in Salem themselves say that if you get something on a ballot, that's when they pay attention.
That's true.
It's like what happened last time with the Oregon Clean Stream Initiative.
They got on a ballot, but it lost.
But Governor Kitzhaber, they had to do something this year because it was on a ballot.
So this will do it.
This will tell the folks in Salem that we're serious about this, taking back our freedoms.
That's absolutely right, but we can't do it ourselves.
I often hear the question, what are you going to do to legalize marijuana?
Well, we're not going to do it by ourselves.
We're all in this together, and it's going to take all of us to stop this.
And it's going to take us going to our family and friends.
It's going to take us getting petitions.
Thanks for watching.
It's been another exciting edition of Oregon Cannabis Tax Act and Cannabis Common Sense.
Thanks for coming, Fred.
Thanks for doing it, Paul.
Paul.
Right.
