Next up we have from Churchill and Drugs a tincture of cannabis indica. I don't know if you can read
that. It's probably a little faded. Maybe we close in. Good job there. Closer, closer. There you go.
Tincture of cannabis indica. And so this is like an 1890s bottle. This next one is one of our nicer
bottles in the collection. We have a couple of these actually and it has a cork up here in the
top which is a they quit corking bottles of medicine back about 1890 as well. And this is
Blissive native balsam for coughs and colds and it contains a half a grain of cannabis to the ounce.
I've got the little fold out handout here. I'm going to read it's Bliss native balsam for coughs
and colds. Contains two percent alcohol and this is the large four ounce size and it contains one
half grain of cannabis indica to the ounce. And the promotional materials from about 120 years ago
read we strongly recommend Bliss native balsam for coughs colds bronchitis. The syrup made of simple
ingredients and a pleasing taste acts promptly in soothing the inflamed membranes. It's a serious
mistake to allow a cough or cold to get started or to linger. Carelessness will prove dangerous.
When you first feel a cold coming on or notice that you have one start taking Bliss's native
balsam. At the same time keep the bowels open with Bliss native herbs. And there it is Blissive's
native a full bottle and a nice. Our next two medicines are veterinary medicines and this is a
colic compound. Dr. Hess's colic remedy and I guess you're supposed to force this down the
throat of your horse or cow. If you use for the treatment of according to the back of the bottle
spasmodic and flatulent colic gripes acute or chronic indigestion. Impaction of the stomach
inflammation of the bowel impactation of the colon etc. From Dr. Hess and Clark of Ashland Ohio.
Next door we have for horses and cattle. It says right here for horses and cattle. It's cannabis
chloral hydrate and cannabis indica. Oh this has 36 and two-thirds grains per ounce. It's nifty
embossing on the back of the bottle here. It says Sloan's anti-colic Sloan's. Then
jumping forward 120 years. We have Manitoba Harvest hemp seed uh hulled hemp seed. You know
hulled hemp seed takes the outer crunchy shell off of the marijuana or hemp seed. And it tastes like
cashews and it's very it's really good if you like nuts and things. Anyway it says from the amazing
hemp seed Manitoba Harvest hemp seed nut is created. We've taken the most nutritious part
of the hemp seed the inner nut remove the hard outer shell and sealed it in a shelf stable
package to lock in the freshness. To ensure quality Manitoba Harvest grows processes and
packages all of our own products daily in our kosher and USDA organic certified facility. Hemp
seed nut is a delicious source of omega-3 and 6 essential fatty acids and essential amino acids or
protein. Sprinkle it on your salad cereal or yogurt. It can be used in your favorite cooking and baking
recipes but keep the temperature below 350 degrees Fahrenheit so that you do not damage the precious
omegas. Then next door to that we have to thank IKO for donating this six-pack of hemp ale
from the Humboldt Brewing Company founded in 1987. It's an all-natural hemp and ale. There've been a
few different hemp ales out there over the years. They've come and gone but this one's still there
and you can rush out to your store and get this. It's family owned and operated since 1987
right down in northern California. So there you have it.
