Hi, I'm Scott. I'm with Portland Normal and 420 Radio and Herbage Designs.
And I'm also an Oregon resident and voter.
And so I've been involved in this cannabis community for a long time.
I feel like it's a privilege for all of us to be together and get to do these things that
that we voted for. That's what we voted for in 2014.
You know, unfortunately, we're having to come here.
And we've always spoke about our cannabis rights.
And we've made that point for years and years.
But unfortunately, now, we're also having to make a point about the system and about voting,
which we voted in 2014, not to change the OMMP.
And all of a sudden, we've been having to do these things.
We've having to... Today, I had to take off work to come here.
Some of you also had to take off work and whatever you had to do to come here.
And we're having to argue things that we've been arguing for years and years.
And we shouldn't have to be arguing.
We should be working together with our legislators who are in session right now.
Which I appreciate all you guys coming here today to do.
One of the things about the cannabis community is we're a big team.
And right now, the team that's on dock right now is the team here.
And tomorrow and the next day, there'll be some different faces here from our community as well.
And so we are definitely a big team.
And we're here supporting freedom.
And we're supporting our cannabis rights, recreational users.
That was one of the reasons that we voted in 2014 was to not arrest people anymore
and to have a great system that we can all be proud of.
We've already had the OMMP system that we've all been proud of for many, many years.
That's one of the reasons we were able to pass in 2014.
Because it is one of the best programs in the United States, period.
People learn from us.
We teach this stuff.
And that's how we should be doing.
And I'm not sure...
Unfortunately, I'm not sure we're being heard as well as we'd like to these days.
And so that's why we are calling these things together.
That's why we're coming together and vote for certain things.
I mean, it's like clean air.
I mean, Oregon has some of the cleanest air ever.
We love our clean air, too.
We want clean air.
But, you know, give us a place where we can have clean air and our fog air.
We want to fog up some air, too, in a place.
Right now, we don't have hardly anywhere to go legally.
That's things that we're fighting for, unfortunately.
And maybe that is what we should be fighting for.
But one of the things we should not be fighting for is for the OMMP.
And so we have to continue to stand up for our rights
and do the things that we need to do to not change that system.
That's why many of us voted in 2014, yes, was because the program wasn't going to be changed.
And we were going to be able to move on and have a great system for the state
to have a tax system.
And everyone's happy.
Suits in there are happy.
We're happy.
Everyone's getting a product that we are grown here in Oregon by our Oregon state growers.
And so with our Oregon tax system.
And so these are the things that we've got to continue to do.
I appreciate all of you guys coming here.
I see many, many faces that I always see.
And please keep up the great work.
Again, I'm Scott and I'm with Portland Normal.
Any information that you guys want, there's some bills coming up right now.
They're in session working these days right now.
And so if you need any information about the bills going on,
any of the senators, representatives that make up the legislature,
all this is right here.
As Lee mentioned, on Monday nights, we have a legislative committee.
And so you guys can also hit us up at the Portland Normal website.
There's information there.
And so just stay active and we'll all get this together.
And we will make Oregon the best program that we know it is.
Thank you guys again for coming out here.
Great stuff.
