If you can hear me, I want to hear you say 420 back to me so I know you're actually listening
because this is important because this will keep you out of prison. Can I hear a 420?
Thank you. So I am John C. Lucey IV. I own Law 420. I've done that for a long, long time. In fact,
I've been a marijuana activist before I could even join normal. I joined normal and told them
that I was 18 when I was 16 because my friends were going to prison. My friends were being put
in cages. They were being put in cells and some of my friends died in those cells. Okay. Everybody
here knows somebody who's been arrested for marijuana. Everybody here knows somebody who
went to jail for marijuana. Everybody here knows somebody, if you know me, you know somebody who
knows people who died for marijuana. Okay. Over a plant. What we're here to do is stop that. In
Oregon, we have legal medical marijuana. We have legal recreational marijuana. That's not true
everywhere. I always tell people I grew up in the South. I grew up in North Carolina. I grew up in
a place where you grow tobacco, corn liquor is still legal, and you can buy things that'll kill
you at just about every drug store and just about every corner store, but you can't buy marijuana
there which won't. Marijuana isn't going to kill anybody. The only way that you die from marijuana
is if the government puts you in a cage and you die there or if 100 pounds of it falls off a truck
and smashes you. Other than that, it's not going to kill you. That being said, I want everyone here
to understand there are still ways that you can be hurt by prohibition. You're not exempt from
being ticketed. You're not exempt from being put in a cage. You're not exempt from any of those things.
Police officers can still arrest you for certain quantities of marijuana. They can still arrest you
for leaving the state with marijuana. They can still arrest you for being at the post office
with marijuana. Somebody came to me and they said, hey, I need to go drop this package off, and I said,
well, do you have marijuana in your car? And I said, you're about to go on federal property. I don't think
that's a very good idea. You get caught in the half plus of Oregon that's federal land.
You get caught on tribal land. You get caught on any place where marijuana hasn't been made legal,
and they can still put you in a cage. They can still fine you. They can still take away your
kids. They can still make your life a living hell. Okay, and so I'm here to say we're going to stop that.
That will not happen anymore. Marijuana will be legal in our lifetimes, in the entire country.
That is what is going to happen, and it's going to happen because I'm going to do it, and you're
going to do it, and anybody who comes to you and says marijuana shouldn't be legal, you need to look
at them. You need to stand up. You need to come out of the closet, and you need to say marijuana should
be legal. Marijuana is something I either do or have done, or I know someone who's close to me
who's done it, and if you can do that, it ends. Prohibition ends, and none of us have to be in cages anymore.
None of us have to pretend we don't do it anymore, and you know what? Marijuana doesn't lead to
harder things. At least for me, marijuana led to the hardest thing I did was grad school. That's
why I have a doctorate, because of marijuana. Marijuana helped me go from a person who couldn't
go to class because I was so sick I couldn't stand up vomiting in a toilet to a person who runs a
business, pays my taxes, does what I'm supposed to do as an American citizen, takes care of my family,
takes care of my friends, and we can do that together, and if you want to do that, support
marijuana legalization not only here in Oregon, support marijuana legalization everywhere in this
country, and support marijuana legalization everywhere on this planet. Thank you.
