And so another question we have here is for Alvy Muzica, which is how the hell did you get into the federal government to give you free medical marijuana?
Well, it took 12 years of educating doctors, as every patient must do, is let the doctors know what medicine they're taking if they're not aware that marijuana is a medicine.
Whether they want to hear it or not, that's one thing I had to do. And it was certainly helpful when I was arrested.
But in the meanwhile, I had to try every kind of medicine available for glaucoma, and that was sad because at the very beginning, we discovered that marijuana was indeed the most efficient, most reliable, and safest part of my treatment.
I had had a lot of surgeries as a child, so any surgery was detrimental, and in fact, I lost my right eye to the conventional treatments.
So I lost one eye. I was against the law for 12 years, worrying about when my children would be taken away from me, when I would be arrested.
Working became impossible in the 80s because they started with their P-test, and I couldn't qualify for most jobs, so I stayed home and became your tax burden, something I really didn't want to do.
The public support once I was arrested, however, I think was extremely helpful to me because even South Florida, as backwards as it seems sometimes, was very, very supportive of medical marijuana and understood my dilemma.
And so I got an attorney from there who represented me pro bono, otherwise I would definitely have been in jail.
And I had a doctor who understood that his Hippocratic Oath was more important than the politics of medical marijuana, so he testified on my behalf.
A judge who was running for election at the time, who also understood that I had neither created my illness nor the fact that God's work was most efficient for me, so marijuana became my medicine legally as I was acquitted of charges of possession and cultivation.
But since then, because we had that acquittal, we were able to talk the government into parting with their precious hemp, which they give to us as medicine to substitute the marijuana the doctor prescribes, but it is working, thank God, and I am legal.
So it took 12 years, one eye, and a lot of you out there to help me. That's what it took to become the first woman to get legal marijuana from the program that is today providing it to eight people in the entire country.
And the one thing that they didn't realize is that when they came after Elvie Musica, they gave our movement a secret weapon and she has been out there, place after place, speaking and waking people up to what's going on.
