I'll start with where I represent.
I represent South Jackson County, everything
from the Green Springs to Ashland, Talent, Phoenix,
into Jacksonville, into the Applegate Valley.
I'm the House Democratic co-chair
of the Ways and Means Committee, which
is the budget committee in the state.
And I've always, I have favored legalization for many years.
I think prohibition has not worked.
We have decades of evidence that says prohibition does not work,
and it's counterproductive.
But what really spurs me on now is,
having spent the last three or four years on the budget
committee, signing my names to budgets
that cut education for our kids, that cut health care
for seniors, that make our communities less safe by cutting
back public safety programs.
I can't, in good conscience, continue
to do that work of trying to rebalance the state
budget through cuts when I know there
is a source of revenue that is reasonable,
that is rational, it's the right policy choice,
and it's the right economic choice for our state.
And that's the legalization of marijuana
and the legalization of industrial hemp.
And I'm not sure if all of you followed this,
but in 2009, the legislature passed a bill
confirming that the state of Oregon's policy
is to have legalized industrial hemp in our state.
The federal government still says we cannot grow it.
But we've passed legislation on industrial hemp
that as soon as the federal government comes
to a rational decision on that and allows
the production of industrial hemp,
our state will be ready to move into production
of industrial hemp.
And that proposal, just so you know,
passed almost unanimously, Republican and Democratic,
urban and rural.
In fact, the representatives and the senators
from eastern Oregon were some of the most enthusiastic backers
of having industrial hemp as a crop for our state
because it just makes sense.
It makes economic sense for jobs in their community.
It makes economic sense for the state.
So we will get there on industrial hemp,
and we are going to get there on legalization.
I can liken this to the effort through the initiative system
of when women got the right to vote.
Oregon was the first state to put that on the ballot
and have it passed by our people.
It took three times to get three times on the ballot
to finally pass and begin the law of the state of Oregon.
This effort has been building, and we
have people here who have worked on it for many, many years,
has been building for many years.
We're at a point now where we're making a major leap forward
by having this on the ballot for the voters of Oregon
to give their view on.
They will render their verdict next Tuesday.
We'll know what it is.
And if it passes, which I sincerely hope it does,
we'll work with it to make it work.
We'll keep putting pressure on the feds
to make sure that becomes the law for the state of Oregon
and hopefully influence the rest of the country.
It's on the ballot in Washington.
It's on the ballot in Colorado as well.
We will watch how those elections turn out as well.
And we'll build off what happens here on Tuesday no matter what.
But I just want to be here today to, again, express
my strong support for legalization, my strong support for industrial hemp
as well, my strong support for ending prohibition,
having rational drug policies in the state of Oregon
and the United States of America to move in a totally different direction.
And the last issue I'll touch on is one
that Lori, I think, called the press conference here today to emphasize
as well is expansion of the medical marijuana program
to include post-traumatic stress.
And that, to me, is a reasonable and, again, totally vital step
for the state to take.
We have people in the state right now.
Oregon can and should be a leader in the research of how marijuana impacts
ailments across the board.
We have the growers here.
We have the medical community here.
And we obviously have the people in need here.
We should put that together, put the people who
are suffering ailments together, the people doing research on marijuana
and the growers, and come up with the data
so we can say with great confidence that someone who is suffering from PTSD
with this strain of marijuana or that strain of marijuana
can expect certain results.
Someone with chronic pain with this strain of marijuana
or that strain of marijuana used in this way can expect these results.
The medical marijuana program, in my view, needs to be professionalized.
And we need to make sure that it's having the best possible outcomes
for the patients who are on it.
And with that, I will just turn it over to you.
