Joining us on the program is Debbie Goldsberry, who's the co-founder of the
Cannabis Action Network, acronym CAN. Welcome to our show. What is CAN all
about? Well, Cannabis Action Network is what's called an unincorporated
association. We're a charity. We're a group of people who have got together
for a common cause. Our cause or our goal is to legalize cannabis. Okay, now I've
noticed from being involved with the hemp movement that it's not always that
the ladies seem to want to speak up or they're not out there on the front lines.
You are a good example of someone who's not intimidated by being out there. I
think they're afraid for their children. I think they're afraid of the
repercussions that can happen in their professional lives. How do you deal with
that? Let's see. Well, I don't have children. It's easy. Professional life? No.
I'm a professional activist. What do you tell these people? Yeah, well, basically I
think what it is is it's a difference between the way that male and female are
socialized in our country. Females are literally socialized to be more in the
background. We find in the marijuana movement and what's going on that when
females do join the movement, they're working behind a table or they're in
some sort of a supportive role. Usually they choose that position because that's
where we would feel more comfortable. When a woman actually does step forward,
there is a lot of discrimination. It's not discrimination solely within
the marijuana movement, the whole entire country, if not the whole entire world,
however that works. But there is a lot within the marijuana movement and that's
like everyone says, there's a lot of middle-aged men involved. A lot of it is
the Washington DC political scene. It's been like this here for hundreds of
years. As far as getting more people involved, I think it's important for
women who are involved to stand up and to take a forward role in the movement.
That's what we're all about. Now, occasionally I've heard the reference to
the girls that can, the ladies that can. So, and you're a co-founder. Who else
put this together with you? Let's see, well the Cannabis Action Network
wasn't actually founded by all women or girls. What it started out with, it was a
group of college students around the state of Illinois along with National
Normal and Wisconsin Normal. In the long run, when it came down to it, after we'd
gone through a couple years, let's see, well we didn't actually start CAN right
away I should say. We started the Hemp Tour Project. Cannabis Action Network
came after about a year of Hemp Tours after we decided that we did need to
start some sort of a movement. At that time, a group of us, I guess you could say
friends, got together, girls who were friends and we started a national
organization. So, that's how it began. Now you two, I know from reading in High Times
Magazine, I've been in association of course with the Hemp Organization and so
you do go coast to coast and you've had the opportunity to see firsthand the
enthusiasm or lack of enthusiasm towards the Hemp Movement. How strong of a body do
you think we have? I think we have a very strong body of enthusiastic supporters
out there. What we found when we go across the country, it pretty much goes
with the marijuana laws. In a place like New York City or a state where there's a
decriminalization, you know, decriminalization law, we don't get as
much support. In a place where there's a lot of harsh laws, a lot of police
intimidation, we get a lot of support. Basically, what's happened is that the
more the government fights against us, the more that we, the users, the cannabis
supporters, realize that we have to get together and work to legalize. Okay, now
when you raise your voice in society, you raise it with strength and pride, but a
lot of people still aren't being able to have the opportunity to hear. Now, do you
continue, do you plan to continue with Hemp Tours and if so, how do you plan to
continue to promote them? Well, the way the Hemp Tour works is it has a
couple different levels. It starts off with the beginning level. The beginning
level is to get our activists to find the people who are interested in
legalizing the activist supporters who can carry on bigger and better projects.
Usually takes a couple years in any given area to get a good solid core of
activists. After that, we take, we change the platform. Instead of finding our
activists, what we do is we want to educate the public. We would call that an
aid tour, a main focus tour, and we bring along a national speaker like Jack
Herrera, LV music of the medical marijuana patient. That's the point that we're at
right now doing our aid tours, educational forums to reach out into the
public. That involves things like debates and lectures, public forums. After that,
that's the point we're at right now, after this, we plan on developing a new
strategy. How do we get bigger? How do we get better? Our goal right now is to have
statewide conferences in every state, get the organizers together to meet at
roundtable discussions and to form a more direct political agenda, lobbying,
direct demonstration type of things. Now you stem out of Lexington, Kentucky. Are there
chapters or other CAN organizations across America that people can contact
to? There are CAN organizations. The Cannabis Action Network is not a membership
organization. It's a network of organizations across the country and
activists. Involved in the network, we have about 200 organizations. It has grown
exponentially. Two years ago, we only had five. So instead of actually encouraging
people to become CAN organizations, we encourage people to develop their own
organization, study local drug policy, come up with something that will be
effective right in their hometown. From touring coast to coast, I know you've
had a chance to meet a lot of people. What have you seen firsthand? What
injustice have you seen firsthand that are stemming from the prohibition laws
that you really think need to be immediately changed? Oh boy, I've seen a
lot of injustices. The main thing that I think is that we need to educate our
enforcement police departments basically. I could tell you a story about Oakland,
California. We were out in Oakland at a Grateful Dead show. What we do
is we set up hemp information tables, display books, t-shirts, and stuff like
that. We had a permit to set up the table. We're at the Grateful Dead lot, like I
said. Police come by. They say, where's your permit? We show them the permit. They
say, marijuana table, permit, this can't be possible. Marijuana is illegal. You
can't be here. You can't do this. They say, we have to call the sergeant. Hold
on to the permit. So police officer has a permit. Well, they're motorcycle cops. The
guy gets on his motorcycle with the permit and he leaves. Just leaves. The
other cops say, well it doesn't matter anyway because if we would have, you
know, even if you have your permit, we're gonna park our motorcycles right in
front of your table. Nobody's gonna come up to your table. The sergeant comes. He
says, where's your permit? We say, permit? The cop just drove away with our permit.
He said, you don't have a permit. You can't be here. We'll arrest you if you
don't leave right now. So right there we have it. It's the discrimination against
the marijuana. It's discrimination against the culture and it's just a
blatant violations and they don't really understand the Constitution. That's what
we're trying to do. Now, you say you set up booths at the Grateful Dead
Conscience. What kind of information do you give to get out of these booths? Well,
our main focus is what we call our hemp museum. We have different displays of
hemp products that come from around the world. Right now, you can import hemp
products. We display the seeds and the seed cake, the granola bars, the cloth,
different things like that. We pass out information and we sell products that
display our message. Basically, we feel if somebody wears a t-shirt around with a
marijuana slogan, you know, tens of thousands of people will see that
message over the course of the next couple years. Excellent. Now, if you had
the opportunity to encourage somebody to join you, would you encourage them to go
on the road, work in their own local areas, or and how would you
go about recruiting that individual? I would encourage each person to choose
their focus individually. Decide what you're best designed to do within this
movement. There are a million facets that we need to, you know, cover basically. What
do you tell ladies when they come up and say, I want to get involved but I'm
afraid if I do, I'll lose my children? Well, that's a tough question. I tell
people first of all what they need to do is they need to educate themselves.
When it comes to a situation, something like losing a child, number one, you're
going to be faced with the authorities. When you're faced with the authorities,
that's basically what we say is it's a it's an on-the-spot type thing. Educate
yourself so if you're faced with a problem, you can argue your point. There's
no reason why you should have to worry about your children being taken away.
There's nothing wrong with supporting the First Amendment. Are you primarily an
informational organization or can someone call if they need help in a
particular area and find that type of help? Well, like I said, we're a network
and we can act as a referral to different organizations. Whereas we might
not have that many resources or information, much information at our
Kentucky base, we can refer you to all kinds of people all over the country. So
you can help people take care of problems hopefully in their own areas. If
you had the opportunity to say one thing to the people sitting at home listening
that might encourage them to get off their fanny and do something productive,
what would that be? Oh, I would have to say that it's working and that's what
people have to understand. The problem that we have right now is that the
situation has reached a critical point. Our laws are bad. The laws are so bad
that people don't even realize anymore that there is a problem as far as the
Constitution. They don't realize they have the right to speak up for their
rights. They don't realize there's the right to protest. They don't realize that
they can pass out information about marijuana. It's illegal. So what I would
tell people is, you know, basically the only way that we're going to change this,
the only way that we're going to change this debate is to get out there to
exercise our First Amendment rights and to talk to people about it. Once you
start talking to people, you become empowered. People understand that it's
the truth and literally you're thanked a million times. It's been nice having you
on our show. It's refreshing to hear someone speak as honestly as you do.
I wish you all the luck in everything that you're doing. I'd like to be back on our
show again sometime. As we've learned today, there's a lot going on in the
world that we still need yet to change. We can't do it without a group of people
joining each other to make that difference. Please take the time, take the
courage to make a difference in your community. Until next time, keep strong,
keep happy, keep wise.
