This state was the first state to decriminalize marijuana.
The state of Oregon was even ahead of California in changing the laws.
So it's no surprise to me that this state continues to be at the vanguard of reform.
And one of the reasons why the state's policies are as functional as they are
is because people like Dr. Levesque, for the better part of 20 years,
have been helping citizens connect with doctors to get the medicine that they need.
Thank you.
One of my heroes for sure.
This state has over, I believe, 25,000 registered patients at this point.
California doesn't have 25,000 registered patients.
You can go to some places like Vermont and there's like 250 registered patients.
There's 250 registered patients right here in front of me more or less.
This state has a functional medical marijuana program.
Is it perfect? By no means.
And there are certain parts of the state you can be a serious victim of geography.
Yeah, here in the greater Portland area, maybe in Salem and Eugene proper,
you don't get harangued that much.
But go dead east? Oh yeah. Yeah.
Same thing with California, by the way.
You know, the coastal communities, they basically have medical marijuana, retail access.
But the more easterly you go in a place like California or Washington state,
the harsher the laws get.
So here we are in a great part of the state to be making this argument.
I also want to recognize that we couldn't be here without activists being involved for 20 or 30 years.
Paul Stamford, who heads up THC Foundation, has been working for 25 years to reform laws
at so many different levels, whether it's been hemp or medical marijuana
or regulating the legalization of cannabis for adult use.
Oregon Normal, Voter Power, and all the other groups that predated them in the 1970s and 80s.
In the 1980s, one of the first legalization votes ever happened, Oregon Marijuana Initiative.
And that legacy still lives on today.
Here we are, we're going to be celebrating our own personal freedom on a beautiful day in Oregon.
And yet every 38 seconds in the United States, statistically, somebody's getting arrested.
So while we're hanging out here for five or six hours today, hundreds and hundreds of people will be arrested.
Over 2,000 people will be arrested today in the United States for marijuana.
90% for possession only.
So obviously I'm not here to convince anybody or to deliver a polemical about the need to reform marijuana laws.
We all know that to be the case.
All we have to do is to do something what the black church has told people to do in the 50s and 60s,
and that is reach one, teach one, reach one, teach one.
And the law is where you live.
Change the laws at the local county level, it percolates up to the state level,
and then finally the nitwits in that little dome building on that little hill in Washington, D.C. finally get it.
And there's a reason why in Washington, D.C. the conservatives want to break up the Ninth Circuit,
which is the California, Oregon, Washington, Alaska, and Hawaii judicial circuits,
because here the court decisions that are coming out are so different than the rest of the country.
There is so much more respect for personal freedom, personal autonomy, and civil liberties on the West Coast
than you get anywhere in the Midwest and certainly even where I'm from in New England.
So, you know, I always ask folks, were you born here in Oregon?
Raise your hand if you were born in Oregon.
You are fucking lucky.
How many of you moved here to Oregon?
You are fucking smart.
That really is how it works.
You know, we think we're all complicated, sophisticated beasts, but we're mammals and people migrate.
So people will migrate to where they think they have the most personal freedom and the most personal autonomy,
the most amount of self-preservation.
So it's no surprise that people are moving in droves from the Iowas and Indianas and Kentuckys and Tennessees of the world
and coming to California and Oregon and Washington
because I think they rightly perceive that they have more personal freedom and the government respects their rights more.
And there's a reason why people in Washington want to get rid of the Ninth Circuit,
because these trends go from West to East.
There's nothing coming from Boston.
Nobody cares about any socio-economic legal trends from Wilmington fucking Delaware or Philadelphia or Washington, D.C.
The serious social trends come from Portland, from Seattle, from the Bay Area, from the Los Angeles Basin.
So really take great pride in not only walking around today and enjoying your personal freedom and the great environment that is Oregon,
but you've got to fight all the time for it.
Your legislature every single year tries to roll back and retard the medical marijuana laws.
And every year Oregon Normal and others fight hard for your rights to keep these liberties and to keep expanding them.
So while you're out having a great time today, vending and buying all the great stuff that makes this festival happen,
and listening to the great music and speakers, this is a First Amendment freedom event.
Never ever forget that. At its core, it's all about your own personal freedom and liberation.
And we can't do our work in Washington, D.C. without knowing that you support us,
and you have to know that for 39 years Normal has supported all the people that get arrested,
all the people that have to fake drug tests, all the people that would have their children taken away from them because they use cannabis,
that they would have their student loans taken away from them, that they would have their very own home taken away in a civil forfeiture proceeding,
to have professional licenses taken away like commercial driver's license, tugboat captains, nurses and doctors and lawyers.
We're all in this together. So thank you so much for Oregon leading the way and continuing to be at the vanguard of personal freedoms and liberty.
Marijuana is nothing more than a metaphor here. Thank you very much.
