First of all, thank you so much for coming on this first beautiful day in a long time.
It's really memorable for me to be here because the Seattle Peace Unions really started right across the street
when Tower Records used to be directly across the street.
And in 1987, we started hitting the ave, trying to do positive things in the name of the counterculture.
And I think around 1989, we started doing a free table across the street, right between the two, right in that wall here between the two windows.
And we had a Peace Unions free table there for three summers, giving away free food.
We made sandwiches right there. We had Starbucks coffee for free, which didn't make Norwichans very happy because they were selling coffee in there.
And we had free condoms and AIDS information and crisis guides and toilet paper for homeless people and toothbrushes and clothing and all kinds of stuff.
And we gave all this stuff away for free for three summers out there. I don't know how we lasted three summers.
But we had a huge presence on the ave. We were a university district-based organization, volunteer group.
And so it's really memorable for me to be here 25 years later on the other side of the street doing this.
I am going to read some of the earlier chapters, which I think are the more interesting chapters in the book, Protestable.
There's no C in Protestable, just so you know.
So I'm going to start off with a prologue, and then I'll read a couple of the first chapters.
I do want to say that there's 180 photos in Protestable. The vast majority were taken by Tony Lilly, who's sitting right here.
I'll set this up. There's 160 pages. There's 20 chapters. Every chapter is a year.
Every chapter starts with a full-page picture of the poster from that year.
So I'm going to start with the prologue.
In times of universal deceit, telling the truth is a revolutionary act. George Orwell.
Hey, bro. How's it going?
It was hard to make out his words. His speaking often sounded slurred, as if he'd had too many martinis at the company party.
I ambled across the hardwood floor, taking in the afternoon. The sunlight streaked through the large bay windows next to the hospital bed in his living room.
Once an active man, Freddie had been diagnosed with multiple sclerosis in the 1980s when he was driving a cab.
For a while, he was able to work with his illness, but there came a time when Freddie went to pick up patients from the hospital who had an easier time getting in and out of his cab than he did.
Would you light the pipe for me? he asked.
I fumbled with the lighter at first, but as I got it positioned just right, Freddie took a long, slow drag on the small glass pipe.
He leaned his head back, letting out a long sigh as he exhaled.
Relief, bro. This gives me relief.
We sat in silence for a few minutes.
I had met Freddie and his wife Annie a few years earlier, and I watched Freddie's health decline as his illness progressed.
When I first met them, Freddie was wheelchair-bound, but he was essentially independent as long as he stayed on the ground floor of their modest, well-kept home in the Seattle suburb of Burien.
Freddie's wife Annie was an attractive woman, slim, with dark black hair cropped in a pageboy bob.
She had full lips, a great smile, and deep brown eyes.
She struggled to care for her husband.
He was a large man, and he was now unable to do anything for himself.
I was struck by her loyalty and dedication.
She could have easily hooked up with some other guy, but Annie diligently stayed and cared for her man.
She never complained, and was always upbeat and positive in Freddie's presence.
She would do anything it took to make his last days as free from suffering as possible.
The only thing that helped Freddie manage the tremors and the pain from his condition was marijuana.
Annie worked odd jobs where Freddie's disability checks were their principal income.
Not able to afford as much cannabis as Freddie needed to quell his suffering, Annie eventually installed a modest grow room in the basement of their home.
Every three months or so, she would laboriously harvest and trim Freddie's homegrown medicine.
Life was very difficult, but they got by without incident for years.
Freddie would get sick, and they would have a scare, but he always bounced back.
After several years, Freddie grew much worse.
I'd come over to visit him, but I could no longer understand anything my old friend was saying to me.
Nor could Freddie hold the pipe for himself anymore.
He was paralyzed and confined to his bed.
Annie had placed a full screen TV above for him to watch, and he would funnel to negotiate the remote, the last bit of control he had over his life, which was clearly wasting away.
He was in there, his mind was sharp as a tack, but his body was no longer cooperating with him in any way.
It was heartbreaking to watch.
He had a beautiful wife, a wonderful home, and he was slowly being consumed by his disease.
One day Annie had to run to the store for some groceries.
She often had to dart out of the house for 15 minutes or so, knowing that Freddie would be fine in his bed, his television blaring.
However, this day would be different.
Shortly after Annie left the house, it was raided by the local narcotics task force.
As Freddie lay helpless in his bed, unable to speak, strangers walked back and forth throughout his home.
He could hear the officers downstairs in his basement tearing out wiring and cutting the cords to his lights.
One by one he watched as officers came up from the basement carrying the green medicine that Annie had tended so religiously, purely out of love for her man, for her Romeo, who had been so unkindly stricken before they had a chance to fulfill their dreams.
When Annie came home, she was met by law enforcement.
They had removed the plants, the lights, and the ballasts.
When she eventually made it downstairs after the invaders had left, she was shocked to discover they had cut a hose leading into her basement without turning off the water, and the basement had completely flooded.
Freddie was removed from the home before Annie had returned.
She had just run to the store, but because there was nobody at home at the time, the authorities decided that Freddie was in danger.
Freddie died about two weeks later, his frail body unable to endure the stress of their home invasion.
This all happened before there was a medical marijuana law passed in Washington State.
I was absolutely blown away that someone in Freddie's condition could be treated as inhumanely when all he was doing was trying to lessen his suffering with the wondrous powers that marijuana used.
As it had been for millennia as medicine.
Freddie and Annie's story is one of too many from within the hemp fest community to demonstrate the suffering caused by prohibition.
Sadly, despite the will of the voters of Washington State, qualified medical marijuana patients are still being mistreated because of cannabis prohibition.
This book chronicles the Seattle Hemp Fest and the efforts we've made over the years to see that all Americans have the freedom to benefit from quality hemp products and to choose to use cannabis if they so desire.
Now I'm going to back up to the introduction.
If we had told anybody during the spring of 1991 that we were going to place a marijuana rally in one of Seattle's most beautiful waterfront parks, fill it with a few hundred thousand pot enthusiasts, staff it with volunteers, and that bands and speakers would come from all over the nation to participate while the police looked on, well, they would have thought we were crazy.
That's what a ragtag assembly of community volunteers has accomplished over 20 years of steady organizing.
The result of hundreds upon hundreds of planning meetings and rooted firmly in the spirit of volunteerism, the Seattle Hemp Fest has endured two decades to be recognized as one of the flagship events of the global cannabis culture.
This book is an overview from my perspective of some of the high points of that 20-year endeavor.
Hemp Fest has been made possible because of a huge community of individuals who have at one time or another expended energy and made sacrifices necessary for it to happen.
There have been thousands of people who have made substantial contributions to the event, the organization, and the community.
These folks have been the wind in Hemp Fest's sails.
I want to take this opportunity to honor and to thank each and every Hemp Fest volunteer who has participated in any of the Seattle Hemp Fests of the past.
I'm not aware of a more grassroots event in the sheer number of volunteer hours it has taken to bring the Hemp Fest's message of freedom and personal responsibility to the world is just staggering.
Many people in the Hemp Fest organization have sacrificed personal time with friends and family, absorbed out-of-pocket expenses, and have contributed to the cause above and beyond the call of duty.
While it's uncertain how much longer Hemp Fest can remain an all-volunteer organization, volunteerism has made this political and cultural phenomenon possible.
It is purely in the spirit of community service that this great endeavor has occurred, and I hope that Hemp Fest can serve as an inspiration for others to participate in community volunteerism.
I feel there is no greater act than that which is intended to improve the lives of others.
Every task completed and every Hemp Fest produced has been in total solidarity with the thousands of activists in the global cannabis liberation movement.
Our beautiful culture has been, in part, created by prohibition, which serves to support the notion that something good comes out of everything.
My reward for my work for legalization has been in meeting, knowing, and working with the incredible souls and spirits who I have been privileged to come in contact with over these past years.
I consider this work a living document, and I invite anyone who has a correction, a recollection, or an event that they think should be mentioned in future editions to contact me.
Over time, just like Hemp Fest, this historical document will grow and evolve with all of our collective contributions.
Chapter Zero, The Seed
Activism springs from an intentional action to bring about social, political, economic, or environmental change.
Twenty years ago, when a small group of activists attended a community peace concert and decided to throw a humble salvo at the United States war machine, something happened.
From that initial political statement, a protest phenomenon would spring forth, a clearing call for freedom and equality that would eventually be heard around the world.
The Iraq military had just invaded the nation of Kuwait, the Soviet Union was disintegrating, and a local band named Nirvana was being signed to GEF on a major record label.
I was a community activist living in Seattle, having founded an all-volunteer, street-level community action group, the Seattle Peace Heavens, a few years earlier.
I had been participating in an annual summer series of musical performances that to this day alternates between various parks in the city called the Seattle Peace Concerts.
The Peace Concert Series was initiated in the 1980s by the Love Israel family, a spiritual group led by a charismatic fellow named Love Israel.
Called simply the Love Family, by the early 90s the group had relocated to an Arlington, Washington property where they lived semi-communally for several decades.
By the late 1980s, a free outdoor urban concert series had been picked up by former Love Family member Don Glenn.
The Seattle Peace Concerts is a community-based project that affords unsigned bands an opportunity to perform to an audience that, during the 90s, ranged from hundreds to several thousand at a time.
The concert series was well-intended in those days, and many great Seattle acts routinely performed for free.
Alice in Chains' 1990 album, Facelift, had just been released days before. That album would catapult the Seattle-based band into mega-stardom.
The Peace Concert featured bands that played on the tavern circuit where bands like Alice in Chains had gotten their start.
The August 26th concert was the last of the annual series, and it took place on a clear, sunny Seattle day.
The concert featured the Cathy Hart Band with Tom McFarlane, the Wombats, and Jerry Miller of Legendary Grape, formerly of Moby Grape.
Summer was ending, and almost everybody knew that America was poised to go to war.
Earlier that August, the Iraqi Army had launched an invasion of Kuwait, with four elite Iraqi Republican Guard divisions rushing into the oil-rich Arab nation.
It was the right political environment for a peace concert.
The event was at Gasworks Park, a 19-acre public park that was formerly a coal gasification plant operated by the Seattle Light Company.
Gasworks Park sits nestled on the waterfront of Lake Union, on the south end of the Wallingford District.
Once heavily polluted, the park was eventually topped off by a clay cap several feet thick that was covered densely with sod.
The large metal holding towers still stand, their rusty catwalks twisting and turning around the hulking, fenced-off cylindrical structures.
At the August concert, some community activists from the Seattle Portable Outdoor Theater, a Rainbow Family Guerrilla Theater group,
had erected a huge rainbow-striped canvas tent in the middle of the park.
It was a handmade Bedouin-style canopy that serves as a performance stage at the annual National Rainbow Gatherings.
As the late day sunshine streaked low across the horizon, peace concert organizer Don Glenn remarked about the irony of holding a concert for peace while America was about to embark upon war.
When the President of the United States is undermining peace in the world, it's pretty hard to hold a celebration for peace, Glenn said to the crowd.
We should stay right here until we can hold a real peace concert, he continued.
His words prompted a large handful of participants to spend the night in the bright canvas tent to protest American aggression in the Middle East.
The group decided it was going to hold a political occupation at Gasworks Park until America had no military presence in Iraq or Kuwait.
I was among those staying behind.
After the first night in that tent, it became apparent that we would need to find another location for sleeping,
as the Parks Department security people had arrived with a huge tow truck promising to tear down our sacred structure, which contained our possessions.
We decided to move inside the large covered Gasworks structure.
That worked well for a while until city authorities threatened to side everyone for trespassing.
That's when a house was rented across the street where vigil goers could bathe and legally sleep.
It was called the Vigil House and acted as a flophouse for the various activists, drifters, and the generally socially disenchanted people who made up the majority of the Peace Vigil's ranks.
Calling ourselves Peace Work Park Peace Vigil, this ad hoc political action went on to last six months and eventually included hundreds of people.
Notable cultural icons including Timothy Leary and Allen Ginsberg attended the vigil at Gasworks, as well as the future Washington governor, Mike Lowry.
The Peace Vigil became the site for rallies, teach-ins, and other community events.
As many as 5,000 people attended the largest peace rally there.
A large candle wax altar on a piece of plywood constantly burned, tucked into the Gasworks structure in a low area protected from the wind.
There was running water, sinks, and fire pits.
For a solid six months, keepers of the vigil were present at that altar 24 hours a day.
There were undoubtedly a few times in the middle of the night that folks may have drifted off to sleep, but it was a vigilant sleep, I assure you.
The biggest problem that we had at that action were people being intoxicated.
Witnessing the problems that we had at the vigil with alcohol had a big impact on me.
I cited at that time that events that I organized were going to be alcohol-free.
During this time, someone scheduled a start-up meeting for a statewide chapter of the National Organization of the Form of Marijuana Laws, or NORML.
It was at that outdoor meeting that HempFest was conceived.
I was at that meeting, as was a fellow I did not know yet named Gary Cook.
Gary had been dissatisfied with the momentum of the informal gathering of potential pot activists,
and he decided that he wanted to produce an event that would promote cannabis awareness and involve more members of the community.
He wanted to educate the attendees on the truth about the cannabis plan.
Gary had experience as a producer of punk rock shows in Eugene, Oregon during the 80s.
Apparently, everyone Gary talked to about his idea suggested that he contact me,
as I was a very high profile at that time, involved in benefit shows, rallies, and demonstrations as an emcee and organizer.
I had been operating the Seattle Peace Humans for several years.
I had founded the Seattle Peace Humans in 1988 with a vision to engage other alternative culture youths,
and alternative culture folks in community service, volunteerism, and general positive activity.
Targeting street-level youth and homeless people, the Peace Humans had many projects aimed at benefiting the community.
The longest-lasting project is the Seattle Crisis Guide, which can still be found at SeattleCrisis.org.
During this time, I was working as a waiter at the last exit on Brooklyn, Seattle's oldest coffeehouse,
and the central meeting place for a vast community of Seattle's diversity.
Called simply The Exit, or The Zit, the brick building was one large square room located just blocks away from the University of Washington campus.
The exit was opened in 1967 by the lovingly cantankerous Irv Siskey, who operated the trendy hangout until his death in the early 1990s.
Wallpaper, hanging on those walls since the exit opened, had since been stained a rusty brown by thick layers of cigarette smoke from over the years.
Poets, peaceniks, and panhandlers all vied for a spot at one of the tables, as the place was always packed.
There were square marble slab tables along the walls of the room that were said to have been stall dividers from the restrooms of the old King County Courthouse.
In the center of the room were large, round wooden tables reported to have been former card tables once used in a casino.
People played go and chess on the tables, backgammon was banned, and wandered up and out on the outside deck when the weather was nice.
The last exit was a hub for bohemians in Seattle, and every Monday night was music, an open music night.
The place would be filled to capacity, standing room only, and there would be a microphone stand set up in the middle of the place,
large PA speakers hanging from the ceiling, and incredible performances took place there, as musicians would come from all over to sign up for a slot.
The last exit served as my office, because my waiter job there allowed me to network with all the other activist types who came through its busy doors.
I would have my organizer friends sit in my section, and then I could go from table to table and network while I was taking orders for coffee and bran muffins.
Seattle had a thriving live music scene, as the advent of grunge music had resulted in an explosion of live clubs.
I was a singer in a rock band called Stickerbush, which had played many of the same clubs where these alternative bands became established.
I was always walking the streets of Seattle, postering light poles and telephone poles with flyers promoting PC Evans events and Stickerbush shows.
Gary tracked me down and shared his vision of a public event that promoted cannabis reform and education.
Gary had just gotten a hold of a copy of Jack Harrah's groundbreaking book, The Emperor Wears No Clothes,
and we were very excited to discover how much we didn't know about the history of the cannabis plant and its rich resources.
I suggested Volunteer Park to Gary as a good location for our first event.
The Peace Heathens had a handful of bulky hand-held CB radios at that time, and I offered the group services for security.
Gary contracted a friend, Seattle musician Neil Storm, who was able to scrape together a patchwork PA system.
Gary created the promotional poster for the first hemp fest using rub-on letters.
The crude but effective poster advertised the Washington Hemp Expo, alternative resource and energy fair.
Members of the Peace Heathens got busy putting up posters on Seattle's heavily laden telephone and light poles.
In those grunge days, some telephone poles in the city were 7 to 8 inches thick with paper posters promoting rock shows.
The Peace Heathens knew how to hang posters, and with the help of other organizers,
we managed to plaster the city with posters announcing the controversial new event.
The rest is, as we like to say, hempstery.
Here's a picture of that first rub-on letter poster.
1991, The Roots, Chapter 1.
Seattle's volunteer park sits nestled above the Capitol Hill neighborhood,
an affluent, albeit culturally avant-garde community that's perched overlooking the Interstate 5 corridor
that runs through the heart of downtown Seattle.
Acquired in 1876 by the city of Seattle for a mere $2,000, it was originally intended to be a cemetery,
but it was instead named Lakeview Park, and the cemetery was created on an adjacent area of land.
The community land was dedicated to volunteers who had served in the Spanish-American War.
The sprawling park includes an impressive glass conservatory, a Victorian greenhouse modeled after London's Crystal Palace,
a water tower replete with an observation deck, an enclosed reservoir, an art deco building that's now the Seattle Asian Art Museum,
a statue of William H. Seward, and a sculpture called Black Sun by Osamu Noguchi.
That sculpture became the inspiration for the famous Soundgarden song, Black Hole Sun, released in 1994.
Near the statue is a cement amphitheater crowned by cedar, pine, sequoia, and madrone trees
that ring the outer edge of the park's natural grassy bowl.
Promoted as Washington Hemp Expo 91, the first HempFest took place on August 17, 1991.
We drove our vehicles up into the wooded area behind the amphitheater, which has a high brick wall built around the back side of it
to project sound toward the audience.
When we arrived in the morning, we were concerned that there were more homeless people sleeping in the park than usual.
The sound gear came in as the morning progressed, and one by one the homeless people woke up to the early sun and approached the stage.
That's when we realized that these people were not homeless at all.
They had traveled from other places to attend the rally.
A few fellows informed us that they had driven from other states just to be there.
We began to realize that we were embarking upon a path of activity that had a lot of popular support.
Within a few hours, there were hundreds of people milling about on blankets and lawn chairs or just sitting on the freshly mowed grass.
I took my place at the microphone and prepared to emcee the kickoff HempFest event.
The keynote speaker for the first Seattle HempFest was Jack Herrer, the author of the hemp activist Bible,
The Emperor Wears No Clothes.
Gary had contacted Jack, whose collection of heavily researched factoids, news clippings, and editorial rants
first published in 1985, had already started a political grass fire.
Herrer had begun collecting information about the cannabis plant and its uses as far back as 1973,
spurred on by the life and struggles of his friend Captain Ed Adair, about whom he writes in the book.
Subtitled, The Historical Record of Cannabis and of the Conspiracy Against Marijuana and How Hemp Can Save the World,
The Emperor Wears No Clothes reveals the rich global history that the cannabis hemp plant has enjoyed throughout the advent of modern man.
Herrer gave a speech that was explosive.
Hemp will save the planet, he insisted.
In 5,000 years of human consumption, not a single person has ever died from cannabis.
The crowd roared.
It was unusual to see anyone speaking publicly about ganja, but this guy was saying things nobody had ever heard before.
When the event was over, I made sure that the peace haven's ethic of leave no trace was enforced,
as I knew how critical it was for us to leave the park as cleaner and cleaner than we found it.
Americans had endured decades of disinformation about pot smokers,
which had long fomented a reputation for stoners as being lazy and irresponsible deadbeats.
I knew we had to do everything we could to counter those preconceived notions about us.
Thus began the Seattle Hemp Fest tradition of picking up every stitch of litter in the parks that's been generated by the event.
We estimate that in 20 years of Hemp Fest, we've picked up over a million cigarette butts.
Once the cleanup was done and we had a chance to reflect, we were incredibly bolstered by the success of that first Hemp Fest.
People were so eager, so hungry for a way to express their passion for legalization,
and many folks told us that Seattle Hemp Fest was exactly what they had been looking for.
Time for maybe just a couple more here.
1992, The Sprout, Chapter 2.
A little over a month before the 1992 Hemp Fest, Bill Clinton was elected President of the United States
after saying that he never inhaled when he had smoked pot in college.
As silly as his statement was, my colleagues and I were pleased that the new president was a former pot smoker.
Earlier that year, Nirvana's Nevermind album went to number one on the U.S. Billboard 200 chart,
and the local music scene exploded with young musicians flocking to Seattle in droves
and performance clubs cropping up all over the city.
Some of those folks had never worn a flannel shirt before,
and Cobain's attire had young fans scouring thrift shops for old sweaters to compliment their new shaggy hairstyles.
I was much younger and even more radical than I am today.
In those days, I swore on stage, and I was largely disconnected on how my words could impact others or the general pot movement.
That would change over time as my awareness and sensitivity to these issues grew.
I recall one of my slogans,
the new world order is an old world odor,
was one actually coined by the amazing songwriter Jim Page.
Jim has actually since told me that he got that from me, so I think I might have made it up myself.
But I was mistaken on that.
Hempfest was a very underground, under-the-radar event,
and I was oblivious to any long-term ramifications of the words I said up on that stage.
We had no idea that Hempfest would be anything more than a flashing pen.
I had little concern with mixing political issues,
and I had yet to really understand the potential our words had up there for moving minds.
I had not yet advanced to a point where I was sensitive to the power and impact that our fledgling protest event would come to wield.
We were operating mostly on intuition,
and from a sincere desire to raise awareness about the incredibly resourceful cannabis plant.
Over the years, I developed a much deeper sensitivity to the subtleties involved in public advocacy.
That stuff would come from trial and error.
When the day finally came around for the second Seattle Hempfest, the weather was terrific.
The sun shone down and there was almost no wind.
Our crew had already thrown down a Hempfest event,
and the setup and preparations went more smoothly this time.
In addition to being the master of ceremonies,
they also got to perform as Stickerbush, the band I was in at the time, played at the second Hempfest.
Headlining the event was Bam Bam, a local rock fusion band headed up by guitarist Tommy Martin,
who still provides sound for the Hempfest symposium stage,
a huge tent where speakers, panels, keynote presentations, and music takes place.
Also on the bill was the renowned Seattle Reggae act, Gonja Farmers,
an extremely heavy stoner band aptly named Seed.
As soon as the rally started, I noticed the crowd going crazy at something that appeared to be happening behind me.
I turned around to see my two colleagues bringing up two large budding Sensimia plants onto the stage.
Later, I joked to Gary,
no wonder you wanted me to emcee the event, you guys are crazy.
The mostly long-haired male rockers comprised much of the crowd of roughly 800 people
were absolutely delighted to see those shining examples of nature's finest work on display for all to see.
At the end of the event, nobody from Hempfest had the courage to load those two pot plants into their car and drive away.
I can't say what we did with them, but I can say that it was a lot of fun.
I will say that we broke them up into little pieces and threw them out to the crowd.
I was just not willing to put that on paper.
We were aware of no police presence, but we were certainly aware that the distinct smell,
the distinct sweet odor of burning marijuana was there all day long.
We had successfully pulled off another legalization rally,
and this time we estimated that we had a total crowd of over 2,000 people.
Elated, we had pushed the envelope even further, and we were apparently still free men.
Life was good.
1993, Chapter 3, The Awakening.
Our once sleepy Pacific Northwest city had apparently developed insomnia,
as sleepless in Seattle was the big motion picture of 1993,
and it seemed that our town had been discovered by a media hungry to promote a new pop music mecca.
An evolving punk metal hybrid genre of music had been previously coined grunge by Green River and Mudhoney musician Mark Arm,
and Nirvana and Pearl Jam's first albums had catapulted the genre into a mainstream music phenomenon.
Gone were the bigger the hair, the closer to God hairstyles,
and a much more natural casual look took hold within the youth music culture
as the Seattle style of denim, flannel, and leather was emulated by throngs of music bands all over.
This trend was evident at the 1993 Hemp Fest,
as the audience was primarily comprised of young, long-haired, motorcycle-jacketed males,
and the event was even more over the top than the previous fests.
Salamander, dandelion soup, and the ganja farmers rocked the crowd.
Eager to outdo the wild antics of previous years,
my comrades emerged from the backstage area with moor-budding sensimia plants.
This time they also placed eight small plastic bongs on the front of the stage,
accompanied by eight eighths of green bud.
The first and last Seattle Hemp Fest Bong-a-thon took place before the cheering approval of the audience.
After inviting eight brave volunteers from the crowd,
we set out to see who could smoke their eighth of pot the fastest.
I recall that the fellow who won was moderately excited to find out that he had just won the eighth of pot he had already smoked.
Gary says there was an additional prize, but that's not how I recall the event, which I barely recall.
But it was definitely a date I slightly remember.
This particular Hemp Fest was in great part produced by our brother Christopher Farai,
who had been performing personal research on the cannabis plant for many years.
Neil Starman contacted some friends at American Music and secured a more adequate sound system
than the one we had the first few years, and we were on our way to bigger and better things.
The last chapter I'm going to read is the Arrival, 1994, and that is chapter four.
The third Hemp Fest at Volunteer Park had been a success,
but we knew we had taken the small amphitheater to its maximum capacity.
A more suitable venue was needed for our growing protest rally.
It was decided that we'd go back to the place of the Hemp Fest's inception, Bong, Gasworks Park.
Word was getting out that there was a new annual event in town
that was boldly telling the unvarnished truth about the insanity of America's pop laws.
Alice in Chains had recently released their Jar of Flies album,
which debuted at number one on the Billboard charts, something no EP had ever accomplished.
Seattle was on the top of the world, and the club scene reinforced that notion
as there were ample live music clubs for burgeoning music acts to play.
Everybody we knew was starting a band.
We went to our friend at Seattle Parks Department, George Long,
for a permit to hold Hemp Fest at Gasworks Park.
George was a large man with a deep voice and a small ponytail capping off his balding head,
a secret supporter of the cause and an old deadhead.
More than once, George and I had shared more than stories
as we crossed paths outside his work environment.
Now, don't you guys get me in trouble over this, I recalled George saying.
Trouble? What trouble? we innocently replied.
We had no trouble lining up acts for that year's Hemp Fest.
Stickerbush, the band I fronted for, performed again that year.
The experience of being the emcee and also performing a set of songs
was so draining that I vowed never to do it again, and I haven't.
The Herbivores played, fronted by the dreadlocked Jim Matheson.
The rock reggae band featured Jay Roberts on guitar,
son of the late jazz great, master Howard Roberts,
and Jim's partner Cher Parker on bass.
I think that was their second time performing at Hemp Fest,
and they would eventually go on to become the Seattle Hemp Fest band,
which still stands today.
My good friend Larry Steiner's band, El Steiner,
played on a large scaffold stage that we directed on the asphalt blacktop
in front of the old gasworks refinery structures
that the Peace Vigil had occupied a few years earlier.
Outrageous, flamboyant, the high energy Larry danced like a madman
and screamed like a banshee on stage.
Larry would go to dance professionally for the band Sky Cries Mary eventually.
Seattle's Dandelion Soup played, as did an ad hoc all-star group
headed up by the singer of Green Apple Quickstep, Tyler Ty Wilman.
I simply cannot recall what they called themselves that day,
as they were a surprise act and was not included in the poster.
I have since researched they were called My Ty Water.
This ended up being Hemp Fest last year without a mosh pit barrier in front of the stage.
Our headline act in 94 would reveal to us the sheer power that our audience possessed.
The bombastic female punk band, Seven Year Bitch, headlined that year.
I remember the lead singer, Celine Vigil, poking her head out of Larry Steiner's
outrageously painted milk van which served as the backstage green room that year
and remarking, Jesus Christ, look at all the people out there.
We were totally unprepared for the thongs that came.
There was a sea of humanity in every direction as the hot sun streaked into Gasworks Park that day.
The gridlock on the streets of the surrounding neighborhoods was intense.
Residents coming home from their day of the commute were unable to find parking in their neighborhood,
that is, if they could even make it that far in the backed up Hemp Fest traffic.
There were simply people everywhere trying to get into the event.
Up on stage, Seven Year Bitch roared ferociously.
There were stage diving youths attempting to springboard into the crowd from the stage's edge.
I had to go up to the front along with other volunteers to protect the sovereignty of the stage
which had a raging mosh pit in front of it.
One guy made it past us and up onto the stage and as he went to jump into the crowd,
his foot pushed into the protective screen covering one of the monitor speakers,
essentially destroying it.
I positioned myself carefully and started untying the shoelaces of anyone the crowd was trying to pass up on stage.
For a while this tactic worked fairly well as the stage divers tried to either tie their shoes or retrieve them from the center of the pit.
At one point we realized that the surface of the Savile's Gage was rocking back and forth.
I looked down to see people in front of the audience holding onto the edges of the plywood that was laid down as flooring.
They were rocking the stage up and down several inches.
I remember a growing feeling of alarm.
If they had wanted to, the crowd probably possessed the ability to turn the entire thing up on its end.
At one point in the performance a fight broke out.
The band stopped and I took the mic and verbally admonished the dudes fighting.
Hey man, you guys fighting down there. This is community here.
Why are you fighting at our community event?
We have to learn to work together if we're going to ever end prohibition.
Please respect that by not fighting.
The crowd applauded and cheered and the two fighters gently assimilated back into the crowd.
Also during the show someone started to set up a Marlboro tent in the park, presumably to promote the cigarette brand.
Gary was enraged. He ran down to the booth and started screaming,
No way are you setting this booth up at our event. You're not promoting cigarettes at Seattle Hemp Fest.
The perpetrator of the tobacco booth sheepishly dismantled it and it disappeared into the pot smoke haze of the crowd.
At 4.20pm at Hemp Fest that year was the first time we really experienced what we now call the 4.20 fog rolling into our event.
It looked as if the entire audience was on fire because there was a thick cloud of cannabis smoke hovering over the entire girth of the venue.
Also at 4.20 at Hemp Fest that year, Jack Herr spoke to the audience who learned how industrial hemp had been grown by several of America's forefathers,
including George Washington and Thomas Jefferson.
In those days Herr was energized and his passionate speeches were equal parts history lesson and call to action.
Intensely focused, Jack was an unusual character and he would talk to anyone willing to listen about the multifaceted cannabis plant.
That year drew an estimated 15,000 people and as the event grew exponentially in size and notoriety, the cost of production and promotion grew as well.
Gary had a huge banner made that was attached to the rear of a small plane that flew around the city promoting Hemp Fest in the days prior to the event and during.
The need for a larger sound system, scaffold staging and hand held radios meant we needed to generate more income for Hemp Fest.
We began a series of benefit shows, many of them taking place in the same clubs that had propelled the famous grunge music acts of the era.
Seattle clubs like the Ditto, the Crocodile Cafe, Rock Candy, the Off-Ramp and the OK Hotel all opened their doors to help raise green energy for the cause.
In the years that have followed, hundreds of Northwest bands have contributed to the fest playing gigs for free without any promise of playing the Big Kahuna.
That was the first year we had staff shirts. In 1994 we picked up the graphic design work of Jamie Sheen and Art Chantry.
They collaborated on our famous 94 cigarette pack poster produced both on hemp paper as well as on 100% hemp burlap.
The poster was the first of many designed by this team to win national awards for art design and creativity.
The 94 cigarette poster won an art director's award, a summit award and a hemp burlap poster version is hanging in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland, Ohio.
After hemp fest was over I was walking under the large concrete arches that used to hold a large coal chute back when the park was a petroleum refinery.
Some fellow began yelling at me to wait for him. I stopped and this guy I'd never seen before came running up to me.
Dude, I'm from Texas and I just decided to walk down to the park today. Dude, we have nothing like this where I come from, he said.
You guys are the shit. Here I want you to have this. I want you to have my Dallas Cowboys baseball cap. It's my prized possession and I want you to take it.
The cap was very soiled. I tried to explain that I was very grateful but I was not really a big spectator sports fan.
But he insisted that I take it. I still have that baseball cap.
There's an insert here from Art Chancher and I'll read that.
This version of the 1994 poster, Jamie and I decided, was a silk screen on hemp burlap with a slight design change.
The leaf is reversed to allow the burlap texture to show through. Jamie had a client that was pioneering hemp products in America and through him she met Vivian.
That's how the connection to hemp was made for her and then me. The burlap version was to promote the idea that hemp is not just about smoking.
As hair reminded us all, hemp used to be the primary fiber source in the world until the chemical industry went to war against the hemp competition.
Art is really one of the most famous living poster artists of the post 1960s era. It's really been a pleasure to work with him.
This year the Hemp Fest poster is being designed by Ernie Sheffaloo who's designed about 20 famous album covers from Black Sabbath to the Bee Gees.
He also was one of the creators of the Rolling Stone Blips. So we're pretty excited to work with him.
We're expanding to a Hemp Fest business show as well at the Seattle Center during Hemp Fest this year.
Thank you all for coming. I had 30 days to write this book. I was originally complaining to my friend and colleague Todd McCormick on the phone.
Saying, man, now I'm working 12 hours a day on Hemp Fest. I don't know how to pay my rent. I'm so broke. I don't know what I'm going to do.
He said, I think I need to write a book. I said, a book? He said, yeah, a book about Hemp Fest. My publisher. I'll talk to him and he can help you out.
So he hooked me up with this publisher and we talked about it. He said, yeah, that's a great idea. Let's do it.
This was about two and a half months before Hemp Fest. He said, yeah, it's got to be done in 30 days. I'm like, what?
I thought, you know, spend a year researching the book, you know, on a year writing it. He said, oh yeah, it's got to be done in 30 days.
So I just sold Hemp Fest and then we'll figure out the pictures and I'm like, dude, we're two months from Hemp Fest. It's a physical impossibility.
You don't even know what you're asking me. Are you crazy? I can't do it. Sorry. I hung up the phone. I started thinking about it.
Man, this is an opportunity, you know. First of all, a chance to tell the story of Hemp Fest. A chance to pay my rent.
A deal, you know. I really can't pass this up. So I called him up, called him back. I'll do it. I'll write the book in 30 days.
Man, I feel sorry for my lady Conti because I was really not fun to be around for those 30 days.
So we're in full promotion mode with Hemp Fest, which is already a full-length anxiety attack. It never stops.
And I had no time for research. I had no time for interviews. I had no time for fact checking or anything like that.
So this really came right out of my memory banks. And then I spent about two weeks kind of pulling all the pictures together
and trying to figure out how to find high-res versions of all these thousands of pictures that we had and stuff.
And I just feel so fortunate because not everybody has a story to tell. And of those people that do, very few people have an opportunity to share it with folks.
There's a few minutes. I want to kind of just open up and see if anybody has any questions or comments.
Have you noticed a change between the pre-initiative Hemp Fest and the recent initiative?
That's a great question. There hasn't been a demonstrable change because we acted like pot was legal at Hemp Fest from the very first day.
So, you know, there was a big concern. The city government was extremely concerned that when I-502 passed,
Hemp Fest was going to have another 20,000, 30,000 people. And frankly, it's actually been slightly less attendance.
You know, there's a lot of factors to that. But we haven't really noticed a big change.
We have done some changes. We have worked with Dr. Roger Rothman of the University of Washington School of Social Work Marijuana Treatment Project
to put together a series of eight cards that we call the Cannabis Gut Check Cards.
And they're mostly geared towards youth, but they're geared towards anybody dealing with marijuana and driving cannabis in your lungs,
cannabis in your brain, cannabis in addiction, cannabis in teens, things like that.
Feeling that now pot's legal, we have to really ramp up the awareness and education on, you know, potential dangers and other aspects that people should know about.
And we worked last year to institute two 21 and over smoking areas inside of Hemp Fest that were fenced off, out of public view,
where people 20 and over could go in and really smoke legally in a public park, which is something nobody's ever done before in America,
that I'm aware of, because the city signed off on it.
So we've changed a few things, but Hemp Fest itself really hasn't changed much since I-502 passed.
And as we're seeing as things work out, that there's just as much a need for Hemp Fest, just as relevant today as the problems of I-502
and the conflicts between medical marijuana and then of course, you know, I've had several people say,
so Hemp Fest is over, right? No need to do it anymore.
I was like, excuse me, you know?
29 grams is still a misdemeanor, 40 grams is still a felony, you can't grow any plants, and there's 46 states where it's still illegal.
What's the attendance like over the last couple of years? Has it increased? What's the numbers? Do you know the numbers?
Well, you know, the city counted, we counted everybody at Hemp Fest last year and the content came out to 106,000.
Whether you can have a minimum wage security person sitting there with a deal and being able to actually accurately count the people coming and going is really questionable.
I don't think anybody really knows, maybe the Akashic Record knows how many people are at Hemp Fest, but a lot.
Yeah, I was very briefly a volunteer, and one thing that was very interesting to me about Hemp Fest was suddenly it became not just a long-haired male and leather jacket thing,
but a family thing. People were bringing their babies in strollers, their kids, and whole families, and I just thought that was stunning and a really good development.
So I wonder if you could say something about that.
Sure. About eight years ago, a writer and a stranger said that Hemp Fest was a patchouli-stained ghetto,
and that it was littered with tie-dyes and prayer flags, and that we were holding back the movement, and if we really wanted to be taken seriously, we would ban the tie-dyes and the prayer flags.
And at the time, I thought that was a tremendously unfair characterization of Hemp Fest, because you look at any photo of the crowd, and 80 to 90% of the people in our crowd are completely mainstream-looking.
It's just that the freaky people tend to stick out a lot. But it's true. Over the years, Hemp Fest has really changed its demographic, and there's a lot of people my age, a lot of people pushing 60, they're older, people from all walks of life, a lot of people bringing their kids, too many people bringing their dogs.
And we've been approached by all kinds of people, hey, we've got these big, huge, puffy children things, we have a children's area we can bring in, we can do all this stuff, we've always avoided all that.
While we allow people to bring their kids, because it's a free speech event, we can't deny anybody, we don't even need to encourage people to bring their children there, I think that would be in poor taste for a variety of reasons.
The other thing about it is, speaking of people's age, is we're uncomfortable with the amount of youth that are smoking openly there, and not really young folks. And that's a challenge for us to deal with that, and we're working hard as we can to try to, I think the most effective thing is to try to educate people so that they make their own decision.
But that's a challenging thing. It's probably our political Achilles heel, is the youth that are there being exposed to smoking or engaging in it. Allison?
I was curious about the Peace Havens and the current status of the Peace Havens.
Great question. The Pizza Havens.
Yeah.
You know, originally the Hemp Fest was a project that the Peace Havens worked on about two months out of the year, which means putting up flyers basically and then running the event and cleaning it up.
And then the Hemp Fest grew and grew and it got to a point where it was two months of the year we didn't work on the Hemp Fest, and now as you know, Hemp Fest is full bore, 150 weeks, an entire year.
And the Peace Havens kind of got absorbed. The Hemp Fest just grew so large, so omnipotent, so overwhelming that the Peace Havens have kind of been sucked into the Hemp Fest, absorbed into the beast.
But that said, we still maintain the crisis guide at seattlecrisis.org. It's a big challenge to update, fact check that stuff because Hemp Fest requires thousands and thousands of volunteer hours.
But the Peace Havens really exist in spirit inside the body of the Hemp Fest now, and it's probably about time to have some kind of Peace Haven reunion thing because I think we are at the...
Peace Havens started in 1988, so we're getting close to a 30 year reunion here coming up soon.
Anything else?
Yeah, thank you for Hemp Fest.
Have you, along those lines, have you been contacted by organizers in other states to put together Hemp Fests?
That's such a good, such a relevant, timely question. We have been contacted over the years multiple times. We have assisted many, many events.
We've given legal advice, advice on permitting, physical advice, sent volunteers, MCs to a lot of events.
And we actually just started a licensing program right now. We've licensed for SoCal Hemp Fest. We're talking to Salem Hemp Fest right now, Las Vegas Hemp Fest.
So we're actually, yes, we're working with many, many events, and we actually have a licensing agreement for events that want to call themselves Hemp Fest that are going to keep the community values, the political content, voter registration.
They're going to have first aid. We have a whole list of quality requirements.
You can't copyright it, but about a year ago we got contacted by two women in the Virgin Islands saying that their former business partner was trying to copyright the name Hemp Fest to rip us off specifically, to charge us for it and deny us the use of it.
We found out that he used our logos and our artwork he sent to trademark it for his thing, which alarmed us greatly.
And so we have started the process of trademarking the event ourselves, which is a very lengthy and complicated process for something like that.
Now, Hemp Fest, Seattle, Hemp Fest has almost become a word like festival. You can't trademark festival. You can trademark this festival, but not just festival.
We're working through right now trying to trademark and protect our brand.
There's been Hemp Fests, calling themselves Hemp Fests, having wet t-shirt contests, and just doing stuff that we think is not in the best interest of a community reform event.
Things that are distracting and not a good mix, and doing them irresponsibly and even recklessly by not having any kind of first aid, not having water, things like that.
And so yes, we've been working for a long time. We'll help any pot event, any reform event that we think is going to be done in a responsible way.
But it's got to have this community values component that we think is making Hemp Fest so successful all this time.
We believe that we have the right to use public property to air our grievances and our First Amendment and Fourth Amendment rights to speak and gather.
But we don't have a right to trash the parks. We don't have a right to deny other people their free speech or their livelihood, things like that.
It's been a complicated balance because not all of the businesses down on the waterfront enjoy Hemp Fest happening there.
And so it's a year-long permitting process every year. The permit takes a year to secure. It's really a yoga.
But yes, the short answer is yes, we've helped out a lot of other events and we want them to spring. And they're springing up all over the place.
Some of them are just a desire to extract revenue and exploit this kind of new industry, and some of them are sincere events to educate and reform and create community awareness.
Have you found big differences in the way the City of Seattle has handled your permit requests from one administration to another?
Not really. Sometimes you're never really sure where stuff's coming from. It's easy to be paranoid when you're using something like this.
A lot of times I think we felt they're out to get us. It's just bureaucracy and red tape and stuff like that.
Ironically, we've learned that if we really want to know what's going on behind the scenes with our event, we have to do a Freedom of Information Act request for documents to the city.
And we just did that. We found all kinds of stuff, all kinds of complaints that we didn't know about, issues coming from over here and there.
We find out what's being said about us that's actually very enlightening. And I don't think they're trying to keep stuff from us. I think it's just bureaucracy and time management.
These guys have huge jobs handling huge events.
HempDesk is a gigantic pain in the ass for these people that work on permitting.
We're the biggest, most complicated, taboo, barely legal thing.
And like they say, it's one of the most loved events in the city, and it's one of the most hated events in the city by people.
It's interesting, but you would not believe the issues and the things that we have to deal with.
One time we got an emergency call from horrible trash and garbage in front of a business during HempFest.
They're outraged, and they called the mayor's office, and they called the city.
So I personally left HempFest and went down to Elliott Avenue to check it out, and there were seven French fries.
There were seven French fries in front of their door on the sidewalk.
I was like, is this even from HempFest? It was like a half a mile away.
But that's the kind of stuff, you know, sometimes we...
And you know, if somebody doesn't like you, your garbage looks worse, stinks worse.
We actually had the Edgewater last year send photographs to the city.
Here's a picture of a glass pipe that was actually left in one of our elevators.
Here's vomit in the parking lot of the Edgewater on the weekend of HempFest.
We're like, you had six wedding receptions that day.
You've got bars, you know. I mean, how do you know it's ours, right?
And so, you know, that's the kind of things that we have to deal with, and we try not to take it personally.
HempFest has a huge impact, and we know it.
