I think we're on the verge of some very exciting changes and people's awareness
is growing steadily. In order to have hemp agriculture in the United States
we've been in working on a number of projects so that we can hit the ground
running when we have hemp agriculture in the United States. We're working on
developing processes and products so that we are ready to have hemp
agriculture in the United States. We're working with materials that were grown
in Canada and we're using these to develop these processes because we do
not want to hold our breath waiting for somebody to change a law. You can't bet
on an uncertainty but there are certain parts of it that are quite certain. I can
get hemp fiber organically grown in Canada. I can get hemp herds by the bale.
We can transport them without restriction to our research
centers here in the United States. These are all materials that are certified
non-controversial. I've been talking with a number of agricultural research
stations who are very interested in working with the hemp. Pressing oil, doing
the same processes and analyses to analyze hemp seed oil to compare them
with the canola oil and the sunflower oil and the soybean oil that are being
used to make biodiesel. Turns out that hemp seed oil with all those double
bonds in it stays liquid at lower temperatures. One of the problems of
biodiesel is that it tends to gel in cooler weather. So hemp seed oil
biodiesel is more resistant to gelling in cold weather. With all those
EFA's, all those polyunsaturated fats, they stay liquid even at freezer
temperatures. Take a bottle of hemp seed oil when you get it at the store. Don't
put it in the refrigerator, put it in the freezer and watch it still stays
pourable. What other oil will do that? This is fantastic. We're looking at how
how do we prepare for hemp agriculture on a scale that it can truly make a
difference. A real farmer may not take a crop seriously if he cannot grow 500
acres of it. So what do we need in order to be ready for a 500 acre crop of hemp
seed? Making the assumption that you get a hundredfold increase with each crop.
The year before we need to have a five acre seed crop dedicated to producing
the seed for our 500 acre crop. The year before that you need five hundredths of
an acre, which is roughly 20 foot by 20 foot. And the year before that you need a
hundredth of that which is two foot by two foot. That's one plant. So it means
that we are four years away from selecting one plant that meets our needs
to having enough seed to where you can have a 500 acre crop. We need to move
forward in ways where we build on our foundations and we're prepared for the
successes. My grandmother always said success is what happens when preparation
meets an opportunity. And so I've spent much of my life preparing for various
successes that have shown their face and this is yet another one.
