Global warming is a real thing and so is legalization in Oregon
And I have to admit that it hasn't played out the way that I hoped it would I was hoping that they would follow
What the law as we wrote it not rip it to shreds and especially not endanger our medical marijuana
program and so here's my challenge for every one of you today I
Follow a lot of you on Facebook, and I see you out there complaining about what you don't like about how things are playing out
And I want you to know that you have the opportunity
Every time you post one of those things on Facebook
You can send it to your representative and let them know how you feel too
You can send it to the committee that's making these rules most of which you have never smoked a joint in their lives
Much less have a clue about how the plan works for the rest of us
Let them know tell stop posting it on Facebook send it to your representatives
Nobody cares on Facebook Facebook is not real people your
Representatives are real you can find them in the time it takes you to write one of those posts
and you can send that note via email or
My favorite thing to do call their office number on a Sunday guess what happens you go straight to voicemail
Nobody puts you on hold you leave your message that says save our medical marijuana program save the
260,000 plus people who are registered save our children who need this medicine and stop the overregulation and
Ridiculousness that they're trying to pull with legalization
I'm pissed off still and I've been fighting this fight for 15 years
And I'll fight it for 15 more until these people get it right and
You guys can do help me do that and it's gonna take all of us
I don't care what organization you're without here or who you don't like and who you do like
Every single one of us can contact our representatives and once we start doing that just like how we got Ellen Rosenblum
We have a voice there are tons of us tons of us
And I wish that everybody who ever smoked weed was here right now because it's time for things to change
I am so happy to see people like Jennifer Valley and
Jesse Sponberg running for public office and being vocal about their cannabis use
It's time to remove the stigma that we suffer as cannabis consumers. I'm pretty fed up. How do you guys feel about that?
Are you pissed?
What are you gonna do about it?
That's right. This fight is not over nor will it be until everyone is free. I want to see everybody out of prison
I want to see nobody going back to prison
I want to see parents being able to choose what kind of medication they want for their children for themselves and for me as a
stoner for
46 years. I just want to go home after work and smoke a joint instead of drinking a beer and I think that's okay
And it doesn't make me a bad person. I'm a good person. I just happen to like weed. I work hard
I pay my taxes. I make my car payments pretty much on time
So, you know, I'm just like everybody else and so are plenty of other stoners out there
So you guys if you don't do anything else in the upcoming year
When you post those posts on Facebook copy and paste them and send them to your representatives
Send them to that joint committee and let them know that we're not going to stand for this over regulation
$5,000 for a
dispensary license
$400 for a liquor license that's discrimination and I'm sick of it
My name is Anna Diaz. I'm a proud stoner. Join me and let's be free at last. Thank you
