We favor the elimination of all penalties for the responsible use of marijuana,
including the right to grow your own marijuana.
And we further favor the eventual legalization of marijuana.
Consumers want the same thing consumers want in any other area.
We want a high quality product that's affordable and convenient.
And so we support eventually full legalization.
I want to be able to drive down to the local store and buy some marijuana.
I want it to be tested.
I want to know the strength of CBD and THC.
And I want to make sure it doesn't have any additives to it or pollutants in it.
So we are the marijuana smokers lobby in America.
Now, the bad news is that we're still arresting 850,000 Americans a year on marijuana charges.
There's another marijuana smoker arrested every 38 seconds.
There have been more than 20 million marijuana arrests just since 1965.
And the real problem with that policy is,
unlike alcohol, where the government differentiates between use and abuse,
they don't arrest you if you're an adult for using alcohol.
It's only if you abuse it.
Yet for marijuana, they act as if all use is abuse.
Well, bullshit.
Of course it's not.
So we need to make that distinction.
Marijuana prohibition for two or three basic reasons is incredibly self-destructive.
First off, we're wasting something like 9 to 10 billion dollars a year in law enforcement
resources chasing marijuana smokers when they should be focused on serious and violent crime.
Secondly, prohibition invites the government into the privacy of your own home
where they know what books you read, they know what music you listen to,
they know whether you, how you conduct yourself in the privacy of the bedroom,
and they know whether you drink alcohol or smoke marijuana when you relax in the evening.
That's offensive to the concept of right to privacy.
The government has no business knowing whether we smoke or why we smoke.
So where does that leave us?
Well, the good news is that we've got three national polls that show we now enjoy
the support of a majority of the American public.
The Gallup poll, the year we founded NORML, we only had 12% nationwide.
Now we have 50% Gallup poll, only 46% opposed.
The new Rasmussen poll, I think, had 56% support.
A third poll had 52%.
Those are nationwide, folks.
We have largely won the hearts and minds of the American people.
There was a Supreme Court decision, and I want to read this simply because I don't
want to get the language wrong.
A couple of years ago, in which Justice Anthony Kennedy, in a case called
Lawrence v. Texas, said the following,
at the heart of liberty is the right to define one's own concept of existence,
of meaning, of the universe, and of the mystery of human life.
It is a promise of the Constitution that there is a realm of personal liberty
where the government may not enter.
Well, folks, we're about to legalize marijuana.
You people in Washington have an especially big role to play there.
You vote for 502, and we're going to send a message to Washington that you don't have
any choice but to rethink your marijuana policy because there are going to be a number of
states that are saying, to hell with you, we're not going to enforce it.
But in the end, we're only incidentally talking about marijuana.
We're really talking about personal freedom, that area where government may not go.
Support 502.
Let's finally legalize marijuana in America.
