Hello everyone. I have written this for the Oregon Health Authority. Thank you
for listening. My name is Dr. Christine Parala Gardner. I am a patient, a farmer,
and a representative of the organic farmers of Southern Oregon who could not
be here today. I say to the Oregon Health Authority and the Measure 91 Committee,
you have overstepped your legal and moral authority. You do not have the
right to overturn the will of 850,000 Oregon voters who directed the OLCC rec
process to make no amendment to the OMMP. Our medical marijuana program has been
described in places like Israel, Poland, Czech Republic, Spain, and elsewhere as
the finest medical cannabis system in the world. The state of Oregon has
blatantly, openly attempted to dismantle our program at breakneck speed with no
patient consultation. The farmers of Southern Oregon and the people of Oregon
will not allow the state to eliminate Oregon's world leadership in protecting
patient access to affordable organic plant medicine. The research on tobacco
is in. Conclusively, tobacco impairs IQ and cognitive development. One person
dies from tobacco in the world on average every six seconds. Why is tobacco
seed not regulated as tightly as you have proposed that Oregon should
regulate cannabis seed? Cannabis regulation must be no more punitive than
tobacco regulation since tobacco is far more addictive, more toxic, and kills
Americans every day. No one has yet died of cannabis intoxication. Excessive
license fees harm the regulatory system by discrediting the authority of the
state to regulate. How much are tobacco farmers charged for drying and
rolling their crop? OHA, the state of Oregon, may not impose any fee increases
until small producers can see clearly how these funds will be used to help
small producers. The state of Oregon has forgotten that most farmers in Oregon
are not rich. We are struggling financially. The draconian proposed
regulatory system seems unlikely to benefit the people actually paying these
licenses, fees, and taxes. This looks like taxation without representation. Proposing
unenforceable regulations which unleash the terror of police search without a
warrant could be just the tipping point to ignite Oregon's first civil war in
defense of the Fourth Amendment to the US Constitution. Does our legislature
want to take responsibility for criminalizing law-abiding Oregon citizens?
We will not comply with unjust laws and rules. The world is watching decisions
made here with great interest. Do the people of Oregon need to sue the state
to remind you that the sovereign right of the people of Oregon does govern our
state? My directive to OHA is to maintain OMMP medical cannabis as it stands in
January 2015 to protect patients and the quality of medical cannabis produced in
Oregon. Make no change to OMMP in 2016. No compromise, no amendment to OMMP. Thank you.
