From my experience in the legislation, I have found that we really don't have anybody in
the House of Representatives who is there to back the wants and the needs of regardless
of what your part of cannabis is, whether you're industrial hemp, medicinal marijuana,
choice to use or sacrament, I believe in them all. They all have a place and they should
all come together and we need to change what this state for sure needs and to do that we
have to be here and we have to be on the inside to do that. Right now, if we want all these
changes we talk about here at this festival, we need to get out there and vote and get
that ballot in the mail and make sure you register. I want everybody to be able to enjoy
what I've been able to enjoy for almost 40 years now and that's cannabis in whatever
form you choose to believe in it in. I'm also a pre-transplant patient at HSU and so I'm
kind of under their thumb of being held out of the system because I can't use it when
I know that it worked for me before I was evaluated and put on the list. So I've been
on both sides of the fence. I've used it medicinally to take care of my needs. I know
it works. My life is basically on the line. If I use and they find it in my system, then
they'll take me off the list. They might as well shoot me right then and there. This is
a type of bias that we don't need in our world, much less our state, much less this district.
Everybody should be able to do what they want. Long before that, I was a farmer and it's
time that farmers are no longer slave labor. They need to be paid for what they do and
paid righteously. That's the other part of it. We also need to have the medical system
and our new transitional health care bring cannabis into it from a positive section to
where the OHA starts protecting any of the clinics, any of the growers, any of the patients
from outside intervention. If you don't like what people are doing and don't want to give
them the best health care they can, then you really don't give a shit if they live or die.
Those type of people don't belong in any sort of politic position or office. I'm running
for state office because I think we've got to really clean up what we've got going here
and hopefully those changes, just like our bottle law did years ago, and those type of
things drip downward and outward just like it will as more and more states come online
with whatever form of legalization they choose to do.
