Thank you Vivian and thank you all of you who are manifesting the spirit of love in
a most unique manner.
As a patient I am here to thank you from the bottom of my heart on behalf of hundreds of
thousands of patients here in your state of Washington and hundreds of millions around
the world, all of whom want their voices heard.
All of them are giving thanks to the Creator for a wonderful gift that alleviates their
symptoms to many illnesses and it is called cannabis.
We called it marijuana and tried to demonize it by changing its name but the miracle kept
proclaiming itself and today everything I wear from my toes to my head is made from
that beautiful plant that God gave us and said, here, take care of your planet.
We are so fortunate to have so many of you who have taken a stand for either the environment,
the destruction to the ocean that's being provided by this prohibition, whether you
are constitutionalists and know that the supreme law of the land cannot be trashed in this
fashion while we stand by and do nothing.
We are human beings with a heart and a soul and a spirit that unites with those behind
bars who have committed no crime, they simply found a wiser bud.
And so it is really, really a privilege to say to you thank you for having changed this
law here in the state of Washington.
That is not only because you have patience here but because you are aiding that light
of day to come shining through the rest of the world.
The dark night of ignorance is over and people like you have brought in the new day as we
face the new millennium.
Your legislators can no longer hide from you and say, hey, we can't have this, this
will be political suicide, another election is coming and you're going to get answers
from them and you're going to kick the ones out of office who deny the voters power and
the voters rights.
But there is someone with me who is a hero in our area.
He's been an advocate for many, many issues and especially for medical marijuana and he
became a patient eventually as well.
He just went about with horrible cancer and he can tell you his story.
I won't be singing to you today because I want Norman to speak to you and I want you
to stop by the Green Cross and pick up a copy of this tape called The War on Us.
They're behind the stage.
Thank you.
They're behind the stage, the Green Cross.
Thank you.
I'm Norm Kent, LB's attorney.
I had the opportunity to speak earlier and LB asked me to address you again.
At the end of my talk I simply ask that what matters most is that all of us individually,
collectively, as a group, as a community, and we truly are a community here today, stand
up and be counted.
That we create the world we live in by each and every choice we make every day and to
have the courage to come out of the closet and speak up and say cannabis prohibition
is wrong is the beginning to the end of that prohibition.
What LB Musica did 12 years ago this week in a Fort Lauderdale courtroom was say no
to injustice, to stand up to prosecutors that wanted to put her in jail, to stand up to
the judge and the criminal justice system that criminalized marijuana.
She said no, I will not take a plea.
I demand the right to go to a jury trial.
I want the right to advocate for a court of law and a community of my citizens that using
marijuana medicinally is in fact not a criminal act but a just act, a righteous act, a moral act.
And she took that stand.
She was willing to go to prison to fight for it.
And the jury and the judge acquitted her and found her not guilty.
And what really happened there that day is that the criminal justice system was saying
that the laws are guilty and that we are innocent, that the laws are unjust and criminal and
that we are the not guilty ones.
And it is criminal to lock people up and put them in jail for the simple possession of
marijuana and it is unjust to seize your car and take your property and deny you student
loans and prevent you from teaching in community schools.
It is wrong.
It is unjust.
And you, you must individually stand up and be counted today so that you don't become
the criminal, the accused criminal tomorrow, so that you won't have to stand up in a court
of law and choose between whether or not you want your freedom or to cop a plea and accept
drug testing.
So join with me, join with me and say these words out loud.
Embolden yourself.
I am not a criminal.
I am not a criminal.
I am not a criminal.
Well, maybe you.
All right, now.
Listen, each and every time you stand up for Indian justice, like this vast and beautiful
ocean, you send out a ripple and a wave of hope and you educate the ignorant.
So don't be afraid to go home today, tomorrow and next week.
And when they ask you where you were on Sunday, say I took part in the road to justice.
I went to the Seattle Hemp Fest.
I was part of a new tomorrow.
And I understand, I just found out coming from Fort Lauderdale, and Vivian, I'm finished,
I heard that there's some sort of restriction about putting up posters.
I didn't see anything about this in the big shot Seattle Times, maybe the Stranger and
the other papers.
The way the mainstream community will be turned around is when you show that you are very
much a part of the mainstream.
Your participation here is it.
And Elvie wants to say one last thing.
I'm very, very sorry, but in our state we have some very special heroes such as Norman
and a man named Joe Hart.
He recently defended and just passed away.
So say a minute prayer for him.
Thank you, Seattle.
We love you.
We love you.
Thank you so much.
Thank you so much.
It will be a norm.
