How many folks here want to have a job?
How many folks here want to have a place to live?
Well guess what? Our state legislators, they don't care if you have a job,
if you're a marijuana consumer. They don't care if you have a place to live, if you're a marijuana
consumer. As far as they're concerned, you can be hungry and homeless living on the streets if you
use marijuana. That's why we march folks. The city of Portland, as was mentioned earlier, they asked
why are you guys still marching? I thought we fixed everything and it's like no. We have consumers,
right? I mean you have businesses out there. Businesses can now sell but where can you use it?
If you're a renter, you cannot use it in your home if your landlord doesn't want it.
Most employers, they'll fire you if you turn up positive in a urine test for THC metabolites.
They don't care whether it was smoked a month ago. They're going to fire you. That's why we're
here folks. That's why we march and we march for our brothers and sisters who can't march
publicly in cities around Oregon even where they have to hide their belief in the marijuana plant.
The marijuana plant is the best plant for them. Remember that. That's why we're marching for folks
that can't march because they're you know they'll be blackballed by the local jurisdiction that they
did. We march because we need to have our rights to gather in public and use marijuana when we want
to. You know it's again our state legislature says you guys can't smoke marijuana if you're a renter.
Guess what? It's legal but it's not legal folks. I'm sorry. Measure 91, you know which I helped
draft, you know it was a partial step. We are not there yet and don't let anybody ever tell you
that we have legalization. We have the best model in the country but it's only partway built. Now we
have to make sure that we have a place to live, a place we have social clubs and that the fact
that the city of Portland you know they don't charge they're charging outrageous sums of money
if you want to get into marijuana business. You know again it falls right into the state
legislature and the bureaucrats. They would only like to regulate a few large industries
dealing with marijuana. We have to tell them no that this is truly a cottage industry. Everybody
has a right to grow and sell marijuana with minimal fees, not expensive fees. So just remember that
when you're out there when you're talking to your friends saying why did you spend a beautiful
Saturday in the streets of Portland when you could have been home gardening or doing something else
because we're losing our rights folks. You know they say oh you guys you have legal marijuana you
can go into a store. Oh and here's my favorite if you're a patient you can buy it tax-free.
It's like well what good does that do if the patient is low income you know when before they
were getting it for free you know and tax is only we're going to be 20 percent who's paying for the
other 80 percent you know so that doesn't make any sense right. So and as Anna was talking about
not just write and call your legislators go visit them when they have a town hall and they all love
to have these little town halls go talk to them tell them who you are. They need to see real people
because right now you know down in Salem they're seeing the big business folks and we can't let
marijuana become big business here in Oregon. We need to show the entire world that we grow the
best marijuana in the world and we have the most freedoms with it. So and if Anna is still out
there I'm sure she'd want me to help lead folks in this little thing we have to say. So back here on
my poster you know these four things when you have an officer comes up to you you still need
to remember these even though marijuana is somewhat legal. So Iko repeat after me am I free to go officer.
There we go and he's got it right he's got the one right there on his thing so am I free to go officer.
I do not consent to any searches and I wish to speak to my attorney
and I wish to remain silent.
you
