Well, one of the things we were discussing just a little while ago was Henry Ford's hemp car.
Right.
Grown.
Right. He made an external body with hemp fiber and oil and some other seed oils.
I've got videos on our website and have for 10 years where they swing a sledgehammer at it and it bounces off and it doesn't scratch the body of the car.
It's kind of a prelude to fiberglass, but perhaps a better alternative.
Like hemp glass.
Yeah, exactly.
So Ford was a total pioneer and we cover pieces of his life in the film.
One of the things that Ford did around that same time that he built Grown is he actually created an ethanol facility in the U.S.
Wow.
And he was turning hemp and other products into ethanol.
Uh-huh.
Now, there was a guy at that time named Rockefeller.
Right. Standard Oil.
Standard Oil.
Good friend of Andrew Mellon.
Exactly.
Secretary of the Treasury for several administrations.
Right.
So, and this is all during the time of Hearst and this whole sort of global power play was starting to be created.
Well, Ford had a completely different idea.
Not only did he grow his car, but he wanted to grow fuel.
And his ethanol facility got about 25% of the fuel market in the Midwest and Rockefeller said, we've got to do something about this guy.
So Rockefeller started funding something that became known as the Women's Christian Temperance Union.
Ah.
I've heard of them.
Yeah.
This was what, circa 1930 or 25?
Well, right before Prohibition.
So, 1915 or something like that.
Exactly.
And as you recall, you know, soon after that, the Women's Christian Temperance Union got together and they created this push for people to stop drinking alcohol.
Right.
Which then turned into a...
To ethanol.
Exactly.
Which most people don't know that the amendment to the Constitution that was called Prohibition was actually funded by Rockefeller, not having to do anything with drinking alcohol, but to make sure that Ford would stop producing alcohol.
Ah.
Well, you know, that kind of ties some strings together there that have flung loosely in the wind in terms of eventually leading to marijuana prohibition, you know?
Right.
And the whole biodiesel issue is something that we've talked about on this show at length.
