Hello and good afternoon. I'm Kimberly Strand. I am a patient, a grower for patients, and I also own the cannabis lodge here in the Willamette Valley called PG and Lodge and the 420 Lounge.
Thank you. I will say to you that over the years we've been in Salem for six years with not one altercation, not one problem, never a DUI, not even a noise violation.
Cannabis patients, our local cannabis patients have a garden, community garden where our neighbors can come and take the food they need during the summer.
We have coat drives and food drives. We've cleaned up the building that was abandoned for almost a year by the Eagles and have made it a beautiful place for people to come and gather.
And they want to say that the Clean Air Act that you're not allowed to come and gather with your friends.
And I will tell you that medical marijuana patients do not medicate in 10 minutes like a cigarette smoker does.
So when you say to a terminally ill person or a person with body pains and aches that I'm sorry, now you have to go outside and it's 42 degrees and it's raining and we want you to power smoke down your joint so that you don't hurt anymore.
I got to say I'm sorry, we're just not doing it. I'm holding a daily open act of civil disobedience at PGN.
Because honestly, we got an outdoor smoking area and that's where the cigarette smokers go and I say to them, don't let the door hit you on the way out.
I also tell them if you want to quit smoking, I'll give you a quarter ounce of pot, a roller, a pack of papers and every time you want to smoke that cigarette, you sit down and you roll that joint and then you smoke that cigarette all by yourself.
And guess what? I have 12 to 16 people every year quit smoking cigarettes on my roll a joint program for the last six years at PGN.
So when you say to me, I want you to go outside in the cold because we're worried about your secondhand smoke, I'm going to say we're not going to participate in that because when you say we're going to go outside, they're not going to let you back in.
Just know it. They're not going to let you back in once you give in.
Don't give up. We have a beautiful outdoor smoking area, we do.
And it will continue to be for cigarette smokers at the lodge as long as possible.
And I know I'm probably putting myself in jeopardy because it is a complaint based program at this point.
However, if you let them push you outside and push you back in the closet, that's where you'll be.
We fought long and hard so that patients of dispensaries would have the right to medicate.
Many of them can't work a four hour shift without taking a 10 minute break to medicate and now you want them to drive home, medicate and drive back?
No, no.
Also the targeting of our elderly cannabis patients for DUI.
I happened to have a patient who got a DUI for a rolling stop at a stop sign because she mistakenly showed the officer the utensil that she smoked her medicine out of.
And he arrested her right there on the spot.
She didn't get a ticket for a rolling stop, she got a ticket because she had a bong in the front seat of her car.
Within the driver's reach she got a DUI.
She's 72 years old.
She spent the night in jail and Dallas is not a friendly place, I'll just tell you.
You don't want to get a DUI for marijuana in Dallas.
She was not treated with respect, she was not treated with dignity.
And now she's in their system and being told that she can't even medicate for 18 months while she's on parole or probation or whatever this class she's taking.
That's her medicine and she's being denied.
This is wrong on so many levels.
When you want to talk about compassion and caring and helping people, they don't know.
They really don't know.
They don't have a clue.
You have 12 people making the rules for 78,000 amazing people who need this medicine.
And unfortunately we can't get them here.
They're sick.
It's too cold for a lot of my patients to be outside.
They couldn't stand here for these two hours.
So bless you.
Many of you are in a lot of pain standing out there to listen to us.
Beat it out there that we need your help.
We're not going to be put back in the closet again.
We're not going to be ashamed that we are cannabis patients.
This plant, I've seen it do so much for so many people including my own life.
My dad was a police officer.
He got the Purple Heart from the city of Salem.
79 years old.
He wants to rub my bum on his feet.
So he goes to his doctor and he says,
Doc, I just got to be legal.
I don't want to smoke it but my daughter makes this bomb and I want to rub it on my feet.
My feet hurt so bad.
And they said, Jerry, just take this medicine.
Just take this medicine for three months.
Then a couple weeks, my dad had all the symptoms of Alzheimer's.
He went to Walmart, forgot where he was and he wet his pants in Walmart.
And I had to retrieve him.
So if you're approaching 80 years old, they want to dope you and drug you
and roll you into the hallway so they can clean your beds.
And you not be a bother to them.
I got my dad off that medicine.
And within a week, he had full cognitive.
He now lives in Florida.
He's 86 looking at girls in G-strings, okay?
This is how you should grow old.
Happy with pain relief that you choose.
Quality is what it's about.
Amen.
It is about quality of life.
And by God, we live in Oregon and we should have the right to choose our medicine,
our right how we live, how we treat our medicine, and how we die.
Thank you very much for coming and bless you all.
