Thank You Vivian, thank you Seattle you are so beautiful. Yes give yourselves a
hand. You know I remember I remember the first few Hemp Fests. I remember when we
measured our numbers in the hundreds but it didn't stay that way. We grew we grew
to measure Hemp Fest in the thousands and the tens of thousands and now Hemp
Fest is measured in the hundreds of thousands of attendees. Yeah and you know
the progress of our movement has mirrored the growth of Hemp Fest. Since
the beginning of Hemp Fest we've passed medical cannabis laws in 17 states and
there's more to come this year. Now from the East Coast to the West Coast from
Michigan to Colorado from New Jersey to Washington patients can obtain their
medicine in safe well-regulated access points. They no longer need to negotiate
the perils of the underground market. They no longer need to worry about
getting short-waved or getting contaminated medicine or having a knife
or a gun pulled on them. We have created tens of thousands of well-paying jobs
and access points across the country and those access points have generated
hundreds of millions of dollars of revenue for our communities. We have
reduced the burden on law enforcement and we've made our neighborhoods safer.
We have proven, we have proven that cannabis can be distributed in a way
that brings benefits to communities instead of harms. But you know the
guardians of public safety up there in the high levels of the Department of
Justice, the US attorneys, they don't think these are good things and so last
year they launched a coordinated multi-agency nationwide attack on our
community. Now that attack started out in Michigan and Montana and when nobody
noticed, when there was no public outcry, when there was no blow up in the media
the feds expanded this campaign to California where they have closed 400
access points with threats of seizing their property. Just a few weeks ago
Harborside Health Center became the latest target of this federal attack
when they served papers on us to seize the property that we are located in. But
we have no intention of closing our doors.
We will never abandon our patience. We will use every legal means at our
disposal to contest this action on the part of the federal government. We have
nothing to hide, we've done nothing wrong. We know that justice is on our side and
we look forward to our day in court. Now since Harborside was served this
campaign of the feds unfortunately has moustachetized like a malignant cancer
it continues to spread. Ten threats went out in Colorado recently and just last
week I'm sorry to say it spread here to your own state of Washington when the US
attorney in the Eastern District served forfeiture notices on four access points.
Sadly three of them have already closed. Are we going to let them get away with
this? No way we're gonna let them get away with it. They think they can crush
us? Are we crushed? No way. We are roused. We are roused to our righteous fury now.
We will not be crushed. I'll tell you after Harborside was served with these
despicable notices offers of assistance poured into us from all over the country.
Every single activist organization you can imagine got in touch with us. We had
simultaneous demonstrations in four different states including a courageous
takeover of the Obama campaign headquarters right here in Seattle. Thank
you for that support Seattle. We are pulling together and we have a common
message and we are going to send it clear and loud. We're going to tell
President Obama that it is time for him to keep the promise he made to us to our
community. It is time for him to call off these rogue prosecutors and stop this
horrible horrible campaign because we are not going anywhere. We're here to
stay. We've worked too hard. We've come too far. We've made too much progress to
go backwards now. All across this country we've built laws. We've passed
laws and built systems of distribution that have allowed patients to come out
of the shadows of the underground market and come into the light of safe and
compassionate access centers. We've come out of the shadows. We've come into the
light. We're never ever going back into those shadows again. We've come into the
light and that's where we're going to remain. Thank you brothers and sisters.
If you'd like to speak to me a little more come check me down at the Dope booth
at the back of the stage area. Thanks.
