We have a film clip, we're gonna run it.
This is from The Magic Weed, a production out of Great Britain from 2005.
Enjoy.
Yeah.
Japanese immigrant farmers have increased production of the one cash crop
which has long been a virtual Philippine monopoly.
The invasion of the two big hemp-producing countries,
China and Philippines, was the start of hemp rationing.
Hitler was also aware of the strategic importance of hemp,
which is used in the making of canvas and ropes,
both of which were an essential part of his war effort.
In 1941, when the German army invaded Russia,
it blocked Britain's supply of Russian hemp.
Germany managed to develop her own hemp production,
but the cultivation of this fibre, which had become so necessary in wartime,
was still banned in Great Britain.
In 1942, the German troops reached the centre of Russia.
The land continued to produce hemp,
which enabled Hitler to move confidently to the next stage of his plans for the Reich.
To safeguard its own supplies of hemp,
Great Britain urged India to increase production.
Meanwhile, war was spreading to Japan.
Within little more than a year,
Japan, successfully employing once again the deceit and treachery
which had so well served her in the past,
had taken the final desperate plunge.
When Japan bombed Pearl Harbour,
forcing the United States of America to declare war,
Americans realised they were cut off from their hemp supplies.
The US Navy was totally dependent upon hemp
for rock-resistant ropes for their ships.
The American government then decided to redevelop their hemp industry.
Marijuana was legalised again and farmers received seeds.
A propaganda film called Hemp for Victory
was then made to encourage this war effort.
The Allies air forces were completely reliant upon hemp.
Parachute straps, packs and belts were made out of hemp.
No other available fibre was so strong and so reliable under combat conditions.
After General MacArthur had forced the Japanese to withdraw from the Philippines,
hemp production soon reached pre-war levels again.
After the war years, a new world arose from the ashes of the old.
India gained independence.
Thanks to automation, India doubled its hemp production
and increased its exports to America and the rest of the world.
In peacetime, the United States once again banned the cultivation of hemp and cannabis,
but at the same time, the US government was forced to withdraw from the Philippines.
The US government then banned the cultivation of hemp and cannabis,
but at the same time, imported millions of tonnes of hemp
during the post-war economic boom to supply its industries.
For this is the Port of New York,
a sprawling pattern of activity covering more than 1,500 square miles.
Its 650-mile waterfront, an ever-changing mirror
reflecting the work of the world and its needs and tastes.
Grain from Canada,
and fish from Portugal and Norway.
Cows from Africa,
and hemp from India.
During the post-war years in France,
hemp growing and processing went through a revitalized industrial revolution.
What is interesting to underline is the fact that in France,
hemp culture went on in spite of American prohibition.
While prohibiting marijuana in the USA, they prohibited hemp too,
and so you couldn't grow it anymore.
In France, hemp growing went on.
France was a very rural nation at the time,
and remained so until the 50s.
They continue to cultivate hemp there today.
What happened was that synthetic fibres went on to become a huge development.
And even in France, in a country where hemp growing was still legal,
hemp began to widely decline,
until the hemp textile industry finally died at the end of the 60s.
