20 states have passed pro-industrial hemp legislation.
And more telling, 10 states, including Oregon,
have passed legislation that remove barriers
to its production.
Let me read them.
California, Colorado, Kentucky, Maine, Montana, North Dakota,
Oregon, Vermont, Washington, and West Virginia.
Pretty wide range of states all across the country.
Now, as I think most of you know,
hemp products are perfectly legal today.
There is a retail market in hemp products
we think is about half a billion dollars now.
I frankly think that's understated.
We've watched the estimates since I've
been working on this.
The estimates kind of go up about the range of the market.
And I will tell you that I'm convinced
if we're able to move forward with actual hemp
cultivation in Oregon and other states,
I think that market is going to expand.
The hemp, there'll be more competition for it.
And it can be grown locally, not imported from Europe or Canada
or Kamchatka or someplace.
So the supply line is shorter, and the competition is greater.
So I think that means that it's going
to have overall an opportunity to make hemp products even more
competitive than they are now.
Additionally, I think the attention that
is going to be directed as a result of what's
going on in Oregon and other states,
we're going to watch the expansion.
So I think there will be more attention, more involvement.
And I think you're going to see even more
commercial applications.
So from my point of view, it's gone
from less than a third of a billion to half a billion.
And I think it's going to expand dramatically.
You see some of the products out there.
This is a hemp flag.
Gerald Polis and I arranged for it
to be flown over the United States capital on July 4.
Now, it's important to clear up the misconceptions.
Industrial hemp, now why don't you repeat after me.
Industrial hemp is not marijuana.
You ought to practice that in other groups.
It's really frustrating.
There's less than 3 tenths of a percent of THC.
It's not a drug.
Now, we can argue about outdated drug laws anyway.
Is marijuana really worse than heroin and meth?
But that's a debate for another day.
We don't need to get into it.
I don't want to get into it.
I want to focus on hemp.
Regardless of your view about other drug laws,
this is not a drug.
And we need to come together to help people understand that.
And what the opportunities are.
I've been listening to people who've
been cornering me for decades.
Some of you have been stalking me in this room.
But the point has been well taken.
And so we've been working as part
of a whole range of issues in Congress
to get this thing off the table.
Get it passed.
Get it accepted.
Now, part of what's interesting for me
is that the controversy surrounding marijuana
is going to help us sweep through some
of the misconceptions.
As you know, 21 states and the District of Columbia
have legalized medical marijuana.
Over 110 million people live in states
that have medical marijuana where it's legal.
And this fall, two states, Washington and Colorado,
voted to legalize adult recreational use of marijuana.
What happened is this has set up an interesting conflict
with federal law.
And again, not debating the merits one way or another.
That's an issue.
But President Obama famously said, when challenged,
is the Department of Justice going
to be prosecuting Colorado officials for doing
what they're required to do in the state constitution, which
over 55% of the people told him to do?
And the president said that he had bigger fish to fry.
And that's true.
And so we had this statement from the administration, which
was logical in a way to avoid an unfortunate conflict
between the state and federal authorities.
We do have bigger fish to fry.
The problem was that there were 83 independent US attorneys who
were frying those smaller fish.
So we sought and obtained clarification
from the Department of Justice that they would not
essentially be prosecuting people
who were operating under the color of state law
and set up some conditions whereby
that would be respected.
Well, this helps us even more.
Because if you can have a regimen in these states
where medical or recreational marijuana is legal,
and you can do this to the satisfaction
of the Department of Justice, it ought
to be a no-brainer to set up a system whereby
him meets that criteria and would not be prosecuted.
It's very, for me, exciting to have that guidance
from the US attorney laying out the priorities.
But even more important for us in Oregon,
the US attorney Amanda Marshall has
stated that her position will be
to rely on state and local authorities
to address localized activities.
And in a recent letter, we've made copies, I think,
from US attorney Marshall.
The department expects that states
which legalize cultivation or use of cannabis,
whether for industrial purposes, medical purposes,
or otherwise, will establish and import
strict regulatory schemes that protect
the eight federal interests that are identified.
They will take a trust but verify approach.
And as long as the state follows through in imposing
those controls, it's not likely that there
will be any threatened federal action,
and federal action will be less necessary.
Look at the actual language.
But the point is, if that's the case for marijuana,
it certainly informs the guidance for him.
So it ought to be easier, more direct, and virtually
no reason that there would be any involvement.
And it's important for us to give clarification
to the men and women who may decide to be involved
that they're not going to be interfered with.
And I hope that it gives the assurance to the state.
The state has been extraordinarily, I think,
forthcoming on this with the Department of Agriculture
and the state legislature.
So we're, I think, well-positioned.
And we'll actually have an opportunity
to hear from a representative from the State Department
of Agriculture today.
Now, you may have noticed the last few months
have not necessarily been the shining moments for the United
States Congress.
There have been some controversies
and some dysfunction.
But for me, one of the highlights
in a really miserable period was watching in this Congress
moments of bipartisanship around the hemp issue.
During the Farm Bill debate, together
with a colleague from Colorado, Jared Polis,
and one from Kentucky, Thomas Massey,
a Republican from Kentucky, who has
agreed to be our lead with the legislation in Congress,
we offered what we thought was a simple common sense amendment.
That's always a danger sign in Congress,
because those are the first to lose.
That would allow colleges and universities
to grow and cultivate hemp for academic and agricultural
research purposes.
And it passed.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
It passed with bipartisan support.
I think it was 225 votes.
And that provision is still on the table for the Farm Bill
discussion we have now.
And we're working for the conference committee.
And some of the stuff that's going to be in the bill
makes me cringe.
I don't know that I'm going to be able to vote for it.
But I think we're going to be able to keep this provision
and be able to do something else that's very important.
It's not just to give a clear signal to Oregon agriculture
that it is appropriate for them to go forward
cultivate it as they see fit.
It's important to help them cultivate it.
And for us to be able to do the research that OSU is capable
of doing, they do amazing things there
to help other Oregon industries, from the cheesemakers, people
who brew beer, wine, small fruits and vegetables,
forestry.
They are not just American experts.
They're global experts at OSU, tremendously powerful research
capacity.
And now they might be able to do research on him
in terms of how to grow it in product applications.
That is a part of establishing a new element for Oregon
industry.
We're about to hear from an all-star panel.
I think I've stalled long enough.
I think we've got everybody here who's going to be here.
Although, thank you, Cable Access, for being here.
When you're on your exercise machine at 2 in the morning
and just don't quite know what to do,
and you're tired of watching speeches
on the floor of the house on C-SPAN rewrites,
you'll be able to watch this and listen from our experts.
I did want to acknowledge how helpful the Department
of Agriculture's Katie Koba has been.
She's the director.
In talking through with her the nature of this federal
partnership, Whole Foods, a leader
in adapting alternative products to retail markets
and helping them become more mainstream.
Thank you.
Hearing from Rick Rutherford, an Oregon farmer
I just met for the first time from Dufur,
who's interested in doing a deep dive in cultivating.
Well, I think the stakes are high for Oregon.
We want to be able to strengthen our economy, particularly what
happens in rural and small town Oregon.
Being able to have one more product that they can cultivate
that has a number of applications,
I think is a step towards helping the economy in an area
that's been battered by the recession.
And as we research, grow, and be able to have access to him,
I think it's also going to help small entrepreneurs, people
who have ideas for hemp products that can be
more affordable and accessible.
So I think it's going to unleash other areas
of economic activity.
Because this is part of an effort
that we need to do here.
We want to support and encourage this process being set up
with the state of Oregon, the Department of Agriculture.
We want to learn from one another,
and we want to inform the public.
So we can lay the foundation.
I would like Oregon to be a leader as we move to the point
where it is clearly going to be authorized under federal
statute, and we are doing more for research and product
development.
But Oregon, once again, is poised to be a real leader.
