I'm standing here at Hempfest in Seattle with Keith Straub, the founder of Normal.
Thank you for that.
What do you think of this event?
It's my favorite event of the year.
I travel around and do a number of these kinds of things, but there's nothing on the scale of the Seattle Hempfest other than the Seattle Hempfest.
For those who haven't seen it, it is incredibly empowering.
I think 12 or 13 years now I've been coming and I find it fascinating.
I think people in other parts of the country are beginning to pick up on that same phenomenon.
The Boston Freedom Fest is coming up in the month, and that's a wonderful thing on the Boston Common with all the history associated with that.
And in the Portland Hemp Sock, and that's about the middle of next month as well.
I was there last year.
12th and 13th of September.
12th and 13th of September.
If you're in the region at all and you identify with marijuana smokers or marijuana smoking, for Christ's sake, come to this thing.
You will find lots of people that are like-minded individuals like you.
And as I say, you'll feel empowered by it.
He's got an understanding that we're doing here.
He's got an understanding.
Save your seeds. It doesn't take a miracle to cultivate the weeds.
You can't sell brownies. You can't sell pot. You can't sell Rice Krispies at Hempfest.
Why? Because we know how to keep this thing going.
And that will bring us down.
We have an unprecedented amount of freedom here.
No other city in the world, no other rally in America especially.
No other city in the world is doing quite what we're doing.
So please understand, we do not want to be the narcs.
We arrested our 20 millionth American on marijuana charges.
Are you ready for 420?
In the mid-summer, the state of California determined that it would be missing $1.4 billion in taxes if we didn't legalize it in California.
Probably ten times that many nationally.
We've helped almost 100,000 people in eight states get a medical marijuana permit.
So that means they can legally possess, use, and grow medical marijuana.
Medical marijuana is a great step forward, but it's not the end.
What we need to do is end adult marijuana prohibition, restore industrial hemp, and help medical marijuana patients.
The man who started it all, Jack Miller.
This will be the future of all mankind, or there won't be a future.
It doesn't matter if you're a Democrat or a Republican, we're going to legalize marijuana no matter what happens in ten years
because when 60% of the American public wants something, they're going to get it.
Contact your legislators, tell them, end marijuana prohibition.
It's time to tax and regulate it.
The more letters they get like that, the sooner the day will arrive.
We're going to legalize marijuana!
Peaceful, look at this, it doesn't even, what if this was a drink fest?
Alcohol fest, meth fest, heroin fest, cocaine fest.
There'd be dead people here, there'd be fights, there'd be stabbings, but it's pot fest, it's hemp fest.
We are proud, we are loud, give me H!
H! E! E! M! M! D! D!
What do we want?
Health!
I freaking love hemp fest, hemp fest is the shit.
Hemp fest is badass.
Go hemp fest!
12th and 13th, Portland, California Park.
Yay, please come, everybody's welcome.
Alyssa!
