Maybe we can close in just a little bit more on that.
You can see there are 300 marijuana cigarettes in this.
This is from the federal government,
from the Research Triangle Institute.
It was processed.
It was grown in Mississippi, in Oxford, Mississippi,
at the NIDA Medical Marijuana Research Facility,
and then processed in North Carolina into cigarettes.
And they send these out.
300 cigarettes is supposed to be a month's supply.
And this is one of the tins that they would send the cigarettes out in.
It's got nifty little layers of styrofoam and stuff inside here
that the cigarettes, you can see the residue is still there.
How did they send that?
300 cigarettes.
Through the mail?
They sent it via the mail.
I thought it was against the law to send marijuana via mail.
It is.
It is.
Now here is something from Park Davis.
It says right down here at the bottom, it's a cannabis medicine.
It's for neuralgia from Park Davis.
And that's nerve pain, folks.
Nerve pain.
Going next to it, we get into a whole line of four different Eli Lilly products.
Here we have fluid extract number, what is that, 96 of cannabis.
Yeah, number 96.
And then right next to it, we have tincture number 17 of cannabis from Eli Lilly.
It says on the front that they're poison, but on the back it says,
formerly thought to be poisonous, but not considered so now.
Down here next to it is a powdered extract of cannabis from Eli Lilly.
Now all of these bottles are at least 80 years old, and in some cases, they're up to 120
years old.
Right next to it, this one's exactly 100 years old, and this is another extract from Eli
Lilly of cannabis indica, before they gave them the numbers here.
Now next to it is an unopened bottle of Kercol for colds and cough.
And it's got the label on it is in about 13 different languages.
This is from 1892, and it's German and French and Italian and Spanish in addition to English.
Right next to it is Linden's Cough Blossom.
It also has a multilingual label with the instructions in Finnish and Dutch and other.
This one's still here.
We can actually take it out and see that it is full.
Here it is, Linden's Cough Blossom with real cannabis included.
Now next to it, we have another mentholated cough blossom.
Now you can turn this, and you can actually see it has that green look of cannabis.
And what is it?
It's a mentholated cough blossom from Clay Shaw.
Clay Shaw, where is that?
That's in West Virginia.
A West Virginia cannabis cough blossom.
Next to it, we have Hexatetra.
Hexatetra with powdered cannabis sativa, it says right there in the middle of the label,
you can see.
Hexatetra.
That's kind of nifty.
One of the last we have from Great Britain, actually from Liverpool, a cannabis tincture
bottle, tincture of cannabis from a pharmacist in Liverpool, England.
And here we have ectoplast corn rings from cannabis.
And I have a collection of about 150 different cannabis medicines, and about 35 of them are
different corn removers.
And what they do for corns and warts is they apply this to the top of the corn and wart,
and they leave it there for about three or four days, and then they remove it, and then
the corn or wart would just scrape away with your fingernail.
