Put your hands together welcome to the stage my good friend Mr. Herb Thrasher
Yeah
Portland Hempstock what's going on out there?
Appreciate him guy. Oh, dude. He does so much for this community. He's up from Sacramento
He's at all these hip festivals you guys have seen him for so many years
And he comes up and gives us this time
And I appreciate him and I also want to take a second to appreciate all the hemp stock core
staff here running this show
Come on guys
We all go through so much this event right here has been going on for about 10 years
And it gets run because people volunteer people join together
People are community. We are a cannabis community, and we make events like this
We make Seattle hip fest we make a little bit at best and all our events like this
Great, and you guys are awesome
And I just hope you guys when you guys see the core staff riding around on these golf carts picking up trash
Thank them dude. I'm telling you they're volunteers
All right, are you guys here for him stock? What?
That's right, that's the spirit we're talking about that's what we're looking for right now
So hemp fest man how many guys out there support him?
Anyone have any hemp on right now wearing him yeah
We got a lot of vendors out here selling him so guys make sure you guys go by there
The vendors that are selling him give them an extra thumbs up man because we really need to start supporting him
This is a huge industry that we can drive to the forces of the mainstream
Movement that's right socks belts wallets come on dude you guys know we don't smoke him
Shoes it doesn't matter underwear. It's all good man hemp
So we guys definitely keep supporting him learn about him find the companies that are selling him and support them
I mean if companies like
if you walk into a store
And you see a product right next to a hemp product and if the hemp product is two dollars more
Three dollars more than the other product don't buy the other product because of that come on guys let's spend a couple more bucks
It's hard to get him here. It's hard to produce him. It's hard to manufacture him. You know him see illegal, too
I know you know dude. I know you know and so uh let's just keep supporting him
Let's keep doing what we do keep supporting these hemp industries
You guys know I started a company over here
Herbage designs dot-com and one of the reasons I started this company is because I wanted to sell him
But I also wanted to start a company that didn't sell by bongs
pipes
Dab pieces you know I love all those pieces. I'm a huge bong smoker. I love bongs
I love dabs, but man we need industry we need business
We need creative people out there which the cannabis community the music industry all these guys are creative people
We need creative movements within this industry
Do an industry mainstream products?
Let's get I would love to expand my company by buying your products so we can get into mainstream
Stores and take this industry to the community. I love you little girl brave Michaela
All you guys definitely need to look up the brave Michaela story. She's a sweet little heart right here
She has been driving so much for the just this industry teaching people teaching people what it's all about
So you guys definitely keep supporting brave Michaela look at her story. Let's see what's up. How about moms out there? We got any moms?
Yeah
Mom so you guys support your kids, and I hope you kids out there. You guys need to educate your moms
That's who we need to start educating moms I
Mean if the dad is like if mom is happy it wouldn't win the when the household's happy if the mom's happy
Everyone's happy that's right, and so moms if we can keep educate mom support
So keep supporting educate your moms
That's who's going to drive this force if you guys look back at prohibition alcohol prohibition
Moms and women are who changed it
Look up the normal women's alliance
That's a growing growing chapter right there a lot of people are joining normal women's alliance a lot of women are now
Definitely joining this movement, which we've needed for a long long time and thank you sweetheart so much, man
We are freaking so thankful for everything you guys are doing and it's awesome
and so I also want to talk about
420 radio dot org
That's right some of you guys know me as herb thrasher. I support. I have a live radio show on Friday nights
420 radio dot org we're a 24-hour network so you guys come over there stop by check out information
We have the rust bevel show you guys know rust does anyone know rust bevel out there I?
Know everyone out there is probably custom at one time
But you've also hugged him ten other times because he's huge for this movement. He's got a great show
Monday through Fridays, and we've got a disco show we've got a reggae show and I so happen to be
metal
Like rock dude is anybody like rock
That's right, man. This movement isn't all about Bob Marley. I love Bob Marley. Yeah, we be jamming, but we also be
That's right dude grateful dead I love the dead but also love six feet under
I love a Sarah who we're about to hear and all kinds of great metal bands and so all you metal heads out there all
You rockers it's time for you guys to start stepping up into this movement, too, so long
It's been others man, and it's time for the metal moving starts
You guys support our thrashing flower hour on Friday nights eight o'clock for 20 radio dot org
Appreciate all you guys and everything you guys
