I think that if we win in Oregon and they win in Colorado with Amendment 64, and a lot
of us had problems with Prop 19 and there were the provisions of that, there was some
dissension in California, but our opposition is going to look at 502 and if it doesn't
pass they're going to think, well that shows people aren't in favor of marijuana legalization.
It won't talk about the specifics that patients had a problem with or marijuana growers have
a problem with, it'll just be a defeat, the same way that Prop 19 was a defeat.
But I think if all of those initiatives pass, it could be much akin to the fall of the Berlin
Wall or the toppling of Lennon's statue in Red Square, that the whole edifice of marijuana
prohibition will crumble.
So if that happens, in five years we're going to be talking about a huge new industry, several
new industries, not just one.
Steve D'Angelo and I both were there at the inception of the hemp industry in the early
90s and late 80s, as several other people here in the audience have been as well.
I think that the hemp industry, when it's freed of the shackles and the economic artificial
barriers of prohibition, I think that the hemp industry will dwarf the cannabis and
marijuana industry.
I think hemp fuel is going to be the primary engine of that.
I think hemp fiber is going to be a large component.
We already see hemp food in most of the stores in a billion dollar industry.
It really is a trillion dollar industry.
Now in 1937, popular mechanics said that it was a billion dollar industry.
It's a trillion dollar industry.
Now Dave Seber is holding up a piece of hemp fiberboard.
He helped pioneer the production of that at Washington State University back in the 80s.
I think that when we replace petrochemical fuels with biofuels, particularly hemp fuel,
that instead of putting all our money into the energy industries, the world's largest
industry, currently it goes to the sheiks in Saudi Arabia, the despots in OPEC, the
corporatists in Exxon and Mobil.
That money, instead of going into those folks' pockets and their Swiss bank accounts, will
go to our farmers and our communities and just realign our whole economy.
There will be a whole new set of problems, of course, but I think that we're on the verge
of creating several new environmentally sustainable industries that will change society and our
whole economic paradigm.
