Thank you, Hempstock. Great to be here in Oregon.
You enjoying this beautiful day today?
Warm enough for you?
Well, you better get used to it because when I wrote my book
20 years ago, Hemp Lifeline to the Future, I said that if they didn't legalize hemp soon
and make a situation where we change our industrial base away from fossil fuels
and petrochemicals and taking it out of the hands of the multi-corporations
and returning it to the hands of the farmers and the workers of this society
then we can pretty much count on increased desertification,
rising tides, rising temperatures,
and climate change in a way that comes in the term of extreme weather.
And guess what didn't happen?
The government did not step in and do the right thing, and guess what has happened?
The ocean has risen 8 inches since I wrote that book.
The polar ice caps have melted away to a large extent,
more in the North Pole than the South, of course.
We also know that the multi-national corporations are running things more than ever,
that Monsanto is trying to dominate the food lines and seeds that we all need,
that this generation has gotten from our ancestors and forebears who worked so hard
to bring us to this point in history where we stand today at a pivotal, epochal moment.
The question today is not, will cannabis survive?
Because hemp has been around for millions of years,
it's been side by side with humans for 10,000 years.
Hemp will survive.
The question is, will the human race, is the human race smart enough
to start to use hemp to make sure that we survive,
that you survive, that your children survive,
that our economy grows in a way that doesn't require
constant increases in consumerism and constant destruction of our forests
and pollution of our environment?
This is the moment where we stand today.
And as I'm here at the stage here at Hempstalk,
I'm reminded that the last time I came and stood on this stage,
I was walking onto the stage to speak,
and a good friend of mine was walking off the stage, having just spoken,
and that guy was named Jack Harer, and he went off the stage,
and I went off, sit down next to a tree, and I went on the stage to speak,
and it was the last time I saw Jack alive.
The spirit of Jack Harer is here.
It's in this land like nowhere else, because this is where Jack poured it out,
and you are the people who remember him and who remember the dream.
When I edited the book, The Emperor Wears No Clothes,
it was a moment where I saw a diamond in the rough,
a book that I thought could change the world,
and now today we're in a moment where John McCain
has come out favorable to legalizing marijuana,
where the Tea Party candidates led the charge to get industrial hemp restored.
Now I'm not saying this because these are the people that I agree with on a lot of political things.
I'm just saying look how far we have come.
Look how far the information is today.
Oregon and California, we have a big problem on our hands.
Washington State kicked our ass last year.
They legalized marijuana in a way that we don't necessarily like all the details,
but they did it in a way that does allow for the restoration of industrial hemp.
Colorado, likewise.
The state of Kentucky decriminalized up to eight ounces of marijuana
and has a policy program in which they have a statewide commission
to investigate how to bring hemp back there.
These are the conservatives.
We are the area that's supposed to believe in saving the world.
We're the liberal, the progressive group.
Why are they getting ahead of us?
It's because history has taken a step forward.
It's because when Barack Obama said to us we have to force him to do the right thing,
that we came back and we have done that.
The reason that the Department of Justice has announced a new policy
to reduce the number of people who go to prison on mandatory minimums
is not because the prison industrial complex wants it.
It's because we, the people, have demanded it.
The reason that we have these advances happening
and that the Department of Justice has announced that it's going to respect
the marijuana laws in Colorado and Washington
is not because Barack Obama is such a cool guy.
The reason is because the people of the United States have moved ahead of our government.
And they're too darn slow at catching up with us.
And so that's what we're here to do today.
Hey, I'm not trying to steal the thunder of my next speaker, a good friend of mine, Paul Stanford.
But one of the reasons that wild horses cannot keep me from being here today
is because I believe that the great state of Oregon will legalize marijuana
and the next election it wouldn't succeed.
And I'm more confident than ever because of what Paul is going to tell you
about three initiatives that have just gotten approved to be circulated.
And so if there's anybody out there who really thinks that you want a future
where your children can grow up in an environment that is not toxic,
in a world that is not controlled by Monsanto and international corporations,
you better register, you better get your petition and get out and collect the signatures
to put this thing on the ballot because we can't keep waiting.
Go and visit the Hemp Hut and learn about how important hemp is to our economy,
in fact to our future and the future of our children and their children from here on out.
As a child of the baby boomer generation, I'm embarrassed at the condition
which my generation passed the world onto your generation.
And so I beg you, do not make the same mistake we made.
Do not become complacent. Do not become self-indulgent.
It's too important. It's too important.
This is our human race and when we're gone, hemp will continue.
But let's do this right now. Let's take that hemp plant.
Let's baste it into a lifeline of rope that we can grab onto and pull ourselves into the future.
We need you to do that. It starts here today.
Thank you very much. I'm Chris Conrad. Hemp for Victory!
Chris Conrad, passionate and dedicated activist.
Can you do no less? Show passion, show dedication.
Go hard for weed! Do you understand where I'm coming from?
