We had about 200,000 people in the march asking for marijuana liberation.
And people completely lost their fear for law enforcement.
They're kind of in a complete civil disobedience concerning planting the seeds.
So, you know, things are also happening there in Argentina.
The government has also announced that they are looking to Uruguay as an example.
So they are very respectful about the Uruguayan government, what they did this year.
That was legalizing cannabis for recreational purposes.
And sales over the counter and distribution and production.
So this is happening in this small, tiny country called Uruguay.
Which is surrounded by two big monsters, which is Brazil and Argentina.
And we hope that the impact that Colorado and Washington brought to South America,
also Uruguay, will impact their next door neighbors.
And, you know, this green tsunami will not stop.
Because this is a green tsunami that already started here in the United States.
So I want to thank you all for this big effort that all these years you guys have done.
As an example for the rest of the world.
This culture.
And this is what we need.
You know, we need some of your culture over there to teach these people all the benefits of this plant.
Not only for using for recreational purposes from a hardwood archery perspective.
But also what it means for industrial purposes.
All the jobs it can create.
And how ecological it is.
Because cannabis is basically ecological.
It doesn't need no chemicals to grow.
It's better than all the pharmaceuticals and all the petrochemicals.
You all know that.
Okay.
So I want to encourage you guys to go and vote in November for Prop 91.
Because as we are now, after Colorado, Washington, South America is also going forward for legalization.
And I think this is a worldwide process.
And you guys can make a difference.
It will be a huge impact if you pass this law.
So I want to encourage all of you to take your friends and go and vote.
You know, to vote is very important.
You know, in some of our countries, like Argentina and Chile, we had these mean, mean militias who kidnapped a whole generation of us.
And now we're able to vote again.
You know, sometimes democracy is a lie, but it's a right.
And if we can use it in the correct form, it will be a benefit for all of us.
