I'm Madeline Martinez and I am the executive director of Oregon Normal.
I'm on the board of directors of Normal. I'm also the owner of the world famous
cannabis cafe in Potland, Oregon. It's a pretty amazing place, a bit of a change
in reality and I'm also the chief petitioner for Sensible Oregon which is
a statutory initiative that we are trying to right now just garner a ballot
title. It's a real struggle without dollars as everybody knows is on this
panel. You know every every little dollar helps and you know it's getting out
there as Rick Steves and Allison said and actually going to the constituency
to the town hall meetings and presenting yourself in a different light
taking the focus off of your attire and the ring in your nose and all these
different things and just try to look as much like them as possible and then it
takes that fear factor away from them and you know I was really questioning
502 and I've listened to Allison and I think that Rick Steves and Allison
really with a dynamic presentation together to see the logic and the
rationale although I'm a medical marijuana patient and so I'm very
concerned about growing your own. I wanted to say that right up front on
502 I think it's pretty inspirational myself. I was pretty amazed at what they
had to say but anyway moving on to what we're doing in Oregon. Sensible Oregon is
really exciting. It removes all civil and criminal penalties for the
cultivation, the transportation, the use, the possession of marijuana for adults
only. 21 and older. It retains the DUII laws and it also retains the Oregon
Medical Marijuana Act because that's a huge concern for patients and we
certainly do not want to stress anyone out let's say but you know all
the inspirational initiatives that are going on across the country are quite
amazing. We actually have the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act. I was involved a couple
of cycles before with the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act so I've signed the
petition myself. I think that any reform is great reform. Any move forward we have
to you know it's hard to have conflicting or a lot of people think of
it as let's say competing initiatives but you know we all have to come to the
realization I've learned that reform is something that we cannot stop and even
as our law enforcement and the Attorney General's of this country and even
President Obama himself have found it's not a good idea to go up against us
because we're a mighty force out here. If people would stand up and vote and
let their voices be heard. Anna Diaz here in the audience is one of the ladies
that I've tapped. I mean she gets out over a thousand communications with our
legislature here at the state at the state level as well as at the federal
level. It's amazing what you can do with your members money. You know they give
you the money to join your membership and what we do is we turn around and
utilize it to inspire them. Anna writes a short brief sentence or two and we go
hey everybody signed this today. We're going to make a difference if nothing
else. We're going to teach people how to be proactive as all of you do I'm sure
and so I think that that's the most inspirational part of normal for the
National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws. You can never change
anything unless you educate the masses and that's what we do and that's what we
have to do even at the Cannabis Cafe. We've had law enforcement walk downstairs
and sit down with my son Rafael and myself right in our little living room.
We have little I don't know how many of you have been to the Cannabis Cafe. It's
a pretty amazing place when you walk downstairs and you realize that you are
in another world. It is pretty amazing the big puffs of smoke that Rick talked
about in Amsterdam. I get to go to Amsterdam this year. I'm pretty excited
about seeing the huge differences. Yeah it's pretty exciting but I think that we
all have to take from this hemp fest especially this panel all the
things that you guys are doing. I really like the lake. I'm not sure I can get
your name but you talked about the no issue with driving under the influence.
Yeah the Supreme Court in Massachusetts rocks. Yeah that's pretty amazing you know and I think that
when you take all the pieces of this and then the next cycle we work on something
different. In our state we have OCTA as I said it's tax and regulate and I think
that's a great you know I mean anywhere you can get it on the books I think is
inspirational. We also have a constitutional amendment brought by OMPI
the Oregon Marijuana Policy Initiative. Robert Wolf and Michael Kleinman are
bringing that to us and I think that's exciting you know I mean if they can get
it passed I think it's a high hurdle but if you can do it hey I'm there with you.
I want to get to regulation. I want to get I don't use the L word anymore
because it totally throws people off. When you talk about legalization and a
town hall meeting everybody kind of you know gets a little concerned but when
you say regulation I found that that is really a good word to use because
everybody wants regulation. We don't want kids walking around smoking at least I
don't I have grandkids you know but I think that we have to really not whirl
with each other and be more united in the sense of you have to like them you
know because we don't like each other I mean Republicans and Democrats the
you know we all we all have issues with you know with others but it's just part
of what we have to do because that's why so many other groups get forward I mean
and you know I don't happen to be a Christian but they have masses. There's
masses of them. If you you know I was proud and lucky and honored enough to
march with the people that came out my people for immigration and if you have
seen a Mexican march we had the horses out and say that they the law
enforcement was out on bikes they were like well you would have thought that
Obama was there or even worse you know Saddam it was scary I was like whoa I've
never seen anything like this it was because the Mexicans were marching on
immigration I don't know how you feel about that but I sure would like to get
those numbers and I try to explain to them as I do everywhere I go that this
is our war that this is the war against people of color and we need to stand up
you know I'm also one of the co-founders of the normal women's
alliance this is a huge step ladies if you're out there and you're just kicking
back raising kids I know it's difficult but try to give some of your volunteer
time and if you don't have that chip away a few dollars from your budget so
that you can help make something bigger than ourselves as I said Ana Diaz right
here is this year's winner of the Pauline Saban award. I don't know if you know the history of Pauline Saban but Pauline Saban was a woman who really led she spearheaded the end of alcohol of prohibition which is a huge thing and as we all know
prohibition is not patriotic and we need to get that point across that it wastes
away at law enforcement dollars and all of our country's resources at every level
with corrections I'm a retired peace officer and I'll tell you what right now
as a speaker for law enforcement against prohibition as I walk the halls of the
woman's penitentiary as we used to call it back in the day state prison pretty
high security I mean we have some really heavy hitters in there but then you
could smell marijuana wafting through the halls as I went to count somebody was
smoking a bowl or a joint or something in the state prison and I was kind of
pissed because I wasn't but my point is you can't even keep it out of a high
security prison with Constantino wire you know big old mini 14s at the
towers give me a break we search people coming in we search people going out it
it's gonna be there and they're never gonna stop it and that's kind of a point
that I don't think we need to scare them with but I think that we need to
make sure that they understand that point they're never gonna stop us from
smoking ever they're never gonna stop us from growing so when I listen to Rick
and I listen to Allison they're not gonna stop me from growing are they
gonna stop you come on but we chip away at that law and that's what I'm saying I
think that every chip is a good one medical marijuana I love it it's a
beautiful thing but it's really been hard on the people when I see women come
to me and this is a really sore spot with me as a mom and she can't see her
children for four months except supervised because she's a medical
marijuana patient how good is that law how good is that law and all these laws are beautiful things but we need to realize that somebody's gonna fall
through those cracks the veterans I see who don't want to be on 300 milligrams
of morphine that's a true story and they feel their cry they want to die
they want to commit suicide so it's important that we all be protected
because a lot of these people can have it if you're if you're a veteran some of
the veteran administration people so it's just this huge thing so each chip I
like to just let everybody know it's a really important shit so be thoughtful
when you criticize other other initiatives you don't agree with you
know because we're sometimes our own worst enemies as Donnie knows yes I have
to say Allison Holcomb is a wonderful person and so are all the other people
that really have thought let's change it you know I people were not happy with me
when I opened the cannabis cafe and some still aren't but you know I don't really
care I mean tragic the truth I'm sorry if you're offended but oh wow you know a
lot of people are offended by the smell of pop comes out of my house what am I
gonna do you know most people were just jealous
that's what I think to tell you the truth but you know I do have a picture with my
mayor Sam Adams and he's not the most popular guy in the world I must say but
I know he's done some good for the city I think you know you way too good in the
badass with Obama now not real happy about it but I just chipped off $50 you
know because which my other option I think he might still be workable but you
know who knows I don't know it's a it's a scary situation but you have to weigh
in balance with your options though I'm trying to break in with the League of
Women Voters all you ladies out there join the normal women's Alliance you can
go online and you can find out how you can stand up up a little if you're brought
or not it doesn't matter but get out there and represent yourself
soccer moms we're all something I used to be a PTA mom yeah I used to make
cupcakes and I used to be getting high you know I'm sorry I'm sorry if anyone's
offended but we can do all these things that we can be all these things we just
have to present ourselves and if you're gonna go do that there's other people
that aren't gonna do that and that's fine and we need all the people you moms
that are raising your kids we just need a little bit of your computer time all
you got to do is do some stuff from home we can all do that right right I
mean let's face it but you know as I always say put the joint down step away
from your bomb and get involved and if you want to know more about sensible
Oregon you can go to sensibleoregon.org or you can talk to our campaign manager
Anna Diaz or myself and you know I'd love to talk about anything else you
want to know
