Thank you very much for inviting me to participate and I would especially like
to say I'm very pleased that HempFest is held every year in the 36th
Legislative District which I represent in the State Senate. And a year ago,
actually August 20th, former Representative Toby Nixon, Republican and
Libertarian and I had an op-ed published in the Seattle Times in which we
commended HempFest in its mission statement for quote saying that the
public is better served when citizens and public officials work cooperatively
in order to successfully accomplish common goals. And while I'm about, I get
99 plus percent positive that people here at this forum and throughout
HempFest have common goals which I share, I'm not sure that everyone in the public
has that common goal or goals. And what I would like to talk about briefly is my
perspective as a legislator in terms of providing and furthering our protections
for patients, qualified patients who are using medical marijuana or cannabis with
the authorization of their doctors and other licensed medical professionals and
also the issue of legalization. Where do we go from here? I'd like to just give a
very short background on what we've done here in Washington State. As we know, 14
states since the early 1970s have provided the opportunity for states to
enact decriminalization statutes. Unfortunately, Washington State is not
one of those 14 states and we have tried the last two years with
legislation I introduced to have that accomplished. It's not worked and so we
have to decide now what we want to do. I focus on public policymaking and what
strategy may be the most viable to reach the common goal that we have. I'm also
going to talk about the medical marijuana issues and starting back in
1995 when I received a call from Joanna McKee, the irreplaceable, phenomenal
Joanna McKee to get involved with medical marijuana, I started introducing
legislation. My sister-in-law had died a few years earlier of cancer and she
found medical marijuana to help her with the horrible pain and suffering and
nausea that she had from chemotherapy and radiation. And then in 1998 my best
friend died while we were deliberating legislation I'd introduced on medical
marijuana, which we did not get through, so I gladly joined with the forces to
work on getting initiative 692 approved by the voters in 1998 led by Dr. Rob
Killian and many organizations which did get accomplished. Since then I've worked
to try to make sure that it works effectively, that the law works and
that's when we get into a nexus between legislation that goes through the
legislative process, citizen activism which is essential, and thirdly raising
the visibility and understanding of the public and the mainstream public who
don't really know. The ACLU had conducted polls that showed that there
was widespread support of that and eventually we were able to enact some
changes to make things more readily available for qualified patients to help
up providers and physicians. This last session we enacted legislation I
introduced to allow for all licensed medical providers to provide the
authorization for qualified patients to be able to utilize cannabis or medical
marijuana. But we still have a lot left to do there and with regard to the
medical use of marijuana I've been working with organizations, individuals,
state officials to refine legislation that I'll be introducing next year in
2012 when the legislature convenes in January. It will be an omnibus medical
marijuana cannabis act because we know that there's a lot left to do. We need to
provide for a safe, well-regulated, secure, and consistent source of marijuana and
something that patients and providers can access without threat of arrest and
prosecution. Our current statute only allows for an affirmative defense which
is really not much at all and as Dominic Holden brought out in The Stranger last
week I think it was that the arrests have gone up dramatically even in the
city of Seattle which has an ordinance that marijuana will have the least
priority for arrest in the city of Seattle so that's pretty shocking. The
bill that I will be introducing will also besides providing for protection
against arrest and prosecution will change the limitations as well that
designated providers may only serve one patient at any one point in time.
Secondly, it will allow for reciprocity for authorized patients
visiting from any state that has legal use of medical marijuana. Thirdly, it will
provide for restrictions of or protections from restrictions of
parental rights without any proof of parents not being able to provide
their performance of parental functions adequately. It will also provide
protections from negative consequences for work-related situations off-site as
long as the use of medical marijuana is authorized and does not have any effect
on the pay on the individual's performance of work responsibilities and
also and this is another very important part of the legislation that we're
working on that we will create a system for licensing and regulation of
production and dispensing of medical marijuana for qualified patients through
the Department of Agriculture and the Department of Health. So really it's a
big step forward if we can get through the provisions but as a legislator I
know that what has to happen is we have to convince a majority of legislators to
get that accomplished which is where many of you come in to help persuade
legislators that this is really really important to do. With regard to the
discussion of legalization, I had been convinced two years ago that the best
way to go about getting to that stage was to have deregulation come about
first. As I mentioned earlier we're not one of the 14 states that allow for
deregulation dating back to the 1970s and it seemed like too much of a leap
for the public to accept and for legislators too that we go the full
legalization route but I have since been convinced through the incredible work of
Sensible Washington which has raised the visibility in the public dramatically
and as well as other groups working on this issue that we should tackle
legalization. It's going to be interesting to see what happens in California in
November with their initiative and Douglas Hyatt who will be speaking and
I've had many conversations about this. This is a good example of supporting the
common goals but maybe having a different approach. I think it's very
important to work on this legislatively first so that we can raise the profile
in the public for the more mainstream public who may not get it otherwise but
secondly I wish that the initiative that apparently is being offered in 2011
would do two things. One, provide regulation because although Douglas will
say that the legislature can provide regulation it takes two-thirds vote of
the legislature to amend an initiative after it's approved by the voters. After
two years it's a simple majority but the legislature really very very rarely
amends an initiative. They don't like to do that so I'd rather have regulations
within the initiative language or directions to the appropriate agencies or
the local government such as in the case with the California initiative and
secondly I think 2012 would be a better year with more likelihood of getting the
measure approved by the voters because it would be a huge voter turnout year
with the presidential election and gubernatorial election. 2011 elections are
city and county ones. They're just not going to have the pull to get as many
voters out but again I support the goals. We need to move forward and if a
citizen initiative is the way to do it that's fine with me and I will work on
it but I want to make sure that we're approaching it in the most effective way. Thank you.
