And guys, I want to reach out to all of you here today on this gorgeous day in this gorgeous park
and ask you to remember all of the eyes of the nation are on us right now.
We have in front of us, guys, a chance to continue the work that you did 15 years ago
when you brought one of the nation's first medical marijuana bills to this country,
here in the state of Washington.
And because of work that you have done,
every member of the Seattle delegation to Olympia, like Senator Colwell, who just spoke to you,
is in favor of legalization. Over a year ago, they went on the record.
And now every single elected official, because of your work, because of you picking up the phone,
because of you getting active, every elected official in Seattle City Hall is in favor of legalization.
And now, because of the work of people like you, volunteers, activists,
who went out and hit the streets and got hundreds of thousands of signatures last year,
in less than three months, people, we get to vote for the first time in any state in this nation
to legalize marijuana for adult recreational use.
It's I-502 and it must pass.
Hey guys, as Vivian said, my office handles lots of legal matters for this great city and for its citizens.
One of those is that I'm the chief criminal prosecutor, and that means that I'm responsible for public safety.
That means I'm supposed to hold accountable people who would endanger the well-being of others.
But when adults use marijuana in a responsible fashion, it's just wrong to label them criminals.
It's just wrong.
That's why three years ago in my campaign I promised to never file another marijuana possession charge again.
And I've kept that promise, and as long as I'm your city attorney, I will keep that promise.
But guys, don't take this for granted.
This beautiful park, this great festival that we're having.
Remember, you can still be arrested in Seattle for possession.
Just because I'm in charge, you can still be arrested.
And once you go beyond Seattle, it's a completely different story.
And so, don't take this for granted.
We need to come together.
We need to recognize there is one opportunity on the November ballot, and that is to vote yes on 502
and send a clear message along with Colorado, along with Oregon, and tell the federal government that prohibition is wrong.
It's time for it to come to an end.
That's what we need to come together on.
You know, Hempfest has been home here for 21 years, and medical marijuana is something that the city of Seattle
has tried to make available for all of its patients.
But other cities are cracking down on dispensaries, they're cracking down on patients.
And remember, I'm just one prosecutor in just one city,
and we need to make sure that we change the law.
It's not enough to elect a good prosecutor, you need to change the law.
And that's what we're here to talk about with 502.
We need a complete solution to prohibition.
It's written, supported, and passed by the people.
And it's not just for people here in Seattle, it's for Wenatchee, Spokane, Chehalis, Auburn, and Kent.
And it's a challenge to the root problem of federal prohibition.
Patients and recreational users alike, when 502 is passed, will have real arrest protection.
Real arrest protection.
That's what 502 will do right now, and it will send that message to Washington, D.C., that prohibition is over.
Alright, I'm going to wrap it up now, guys.
But remember, this November, we have a chance to redirect law enforcement priorities.
To make sure that we reclaim industrial hemp for the state of Washington.
Let's make sure that we have a yes on 502 and send the message along with Colorado and Oregon.
Thank you, everyone. Thanks, Seattle.
