Hey everybody, thanks for coming out today. My name is Don Skakie. I'm a Washington resident and currently working at the Northwest Cannabis Cafe in Portland, Oregon.
So I guess I'm by state right now because I was last Monday in the Capitol in Olympia speaking about HomeGrow from Washington.
We heard that after encouragement, comments by the chairman, that the opposition would lie in the other house.
The chairman did not even allow a vote of his own committee to get it out. So we're not looking good up there in Washington.
I really, I'm amazed at the parallels between the two states here. Be cautious. Look to what's happening up there because I see it coming here.
Don't be satisfied that there are people here, and there are great people here on our side that speak for you or speak for your interests, but only you can speak for you.
And it's critically important that you do that. On this table over here, we have the contact information for the committee members for implementation.
And also you need to find out, if you don't know who your legislator is, find out who your legislator is.
If you don't see them in their office here, see them in your district. If you don't see them in your district, see them at their town meetings.
But see them. Say, look, medical cannabis is important to me. Cannabis is important to me.
I am a medical patient. I work a shift up at the cafe there from two in the afternoon until midnight.
And I've got to tell you, a smoke-free environment is not good for my health. I need to smoke during the day.
And I've got to tell you something else. It's become obvious since we've been open, since we opened their hemp stock weekend.
And each day, more and more people come in. And it's not just patients. It's regular, everyday folks. It's the homeless people.
We've got a lovely young couple that lives in a trailer that brings their friends in when they come to visit because they've got nowhere to entertain.
It's tourists that can't smoke in their room. They come to Oregon. They want to smoke pot. They want to check it out.
And you can't smoke it in public. And you can't smoke it in your hotel. And you can't maybe smoke it in your housing because it's federally funded.
Or you just don't want to. We've got another couple that comes in because they don't want to smoke around their kids.
You know, the social aspect of cannabis is strong. It's one of the strongest ties amongst all of us.
And to be able to go out and enjoy each other socially in an alcohol-free environment and leave knowing that we're all safe and happy is just astounding to me.
And the fact that they want to shut us down, I mean, it's not healthy. Right now, it's freaking cold.
And to go to our club right now, the OHA rules is you're going to have to go outside.
Well, fortunately, we've invested in the club and built an outdoor area that's covered with some heaters.
And it's nice, but it's not indoors. And it's not like the beauty of the club inside.
We need to make the adjustments. We've got to remember, these legislators are just regular folks.
They're not experts in all the issues that come before them.
They look upon the public to educate them on what's important, and that's why the lobbyists get their ear.
You know, when you come down here, you have to take time off of work or time away from your family or travel here at expense.
And, you know, it's not easy. When somebody's paying you to be a lobbyist, it's easy.
It's your job. You get up in the morning, put on your suit and tie, hop in the car, put some gas in the car, and away you go because you've been paid.
Well, we need us each to pay ourselves forward by speaking to our legislators.
So please, if you're not informed on the issues, we do have the information of the committee members.
If you don't know who represents you, find out who represents you and see them and tell them.
But find out the information. Speak for yourself. We can only do so much on your behalf.
You have got to carry the ball the rest of the way.
Thank you so much.
