Israeli scientist, I think his name is Rafael Makulum.
He's the one who discovered THC about 25 years ago and then discovered the receptor sites,
or at least worked on the team of...
Worked on those and has also been involved in some of the endogenous cannabinoids,
the natural substances we all have in our brains and bodies as well.
Still very active.
Right.
Excuse me, are those comparable to endorphins or...?
Well, they're a different group of chemicals, also endogenous though, that use different
receptors. There are different receptors for the opioids, morphine and codeine, those two
substances. So the endorphins are among these agents that help energize the neurons to put
out transmitters in various centers of the brain. And cannabinoids, or the components
of the marijuana leaf, are yet another system, pharmacological system.
So that endogenous system, I think they call it the endorphin-like substance, it's ananamide?
Is that the proper...?
Anandamide is the one that is best developed. It also uses the so-called CB1 receptor,
cannabinoid 1 receptor, such as THC does. And then there's another one that's 2AG,
arachidonial glycerol, which is another of these endogenous cannabinoid-like substances.
Have they identified the primary action of this receptor system?
There are many actions, actually. The receptors have been identified and cloned, actually,
and they can be sited or located in various parts of the brain that have to do with pain perception,
with movement control, with control of vomiting, with warm and pleasant feelings,
with sedation and so forth. So they're very common throughout the brain.
So that there is a definite, what shall we say, therapeutic action of these substances,
would that be...?
Well, I wouldn't say...
The actions that you mentioned seem to me to be therapeutic, or could be therapeutic.
Well, they might be exploited for therapeutic uses, that's correct,
because there are these systems in place. And that's the reason, I'm sure, that people have
found some utility for the use of these cannabinoid substances.
Before the president of the Institute of Medicine asked you to be a co-investigator,
can you tell us about the process that led up to the Institute of Medicine conducting this inquiry?
Yes, the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy, which is directed by Barry McCaffrey,
asked the Institute to consider such a study and was willing to fund it.
About the same time, a major foundation also thought this would be worthy of study,
but the Institute thought it better, and so did apparently General McCaffrey,
if only the one sponsor were responsible. And so a proposal was made to his office
by the Institute staff, which led to a statement of tasks, so-called, and then
the funding of the study.
What was the mandate from the Office of National Drug Control Policy?
Didn't they exclude... they just wanted the medical report, nothing to do with science or...
Well, no, the science, yes. They wanted the scientific basis for any benefits or harms
that might come from the medical use of marijuana or its component substances.
And we were not restricted, but we were not picked either to address issues of social,
legislative, regulatory, etc., kinds of considerations. I think it would have been
a very different statement of task and a very different group. It would not have included me.
Were you involved at all? I know that the Institute of Medicine produced a report
15 years before regarding marijuana, not specifically as medicine.
There was...
You must have reviewed that.
Oh, absolutely. I was not. That was in 1982, and it was frustrated by the lack of clear
science, rigorous experimentation, and called repeatedly for research in various fields.
In the meantime, there's been an explosion of knowledge in the basic science field.
All of these anandamide and receptors and neurotransmitters and sighting of these things
in various control areas in the brain have been elaborated. So we were at a distinct advantage
over the people who did that study. And we hope we carried things a bit further because of that
new science.
Could you address that explosion in science and discovery of the
receptor system a bit for our audience?
Well, it really was the identification of the receptors themselves,
cloning them, sighting them wherever they were found, both in the brain and peripherally.
The CB2, the cannabinoid 2 receptor, is primarily in the immune system and more peripheral
nervous system. And CB1 is primarily in the brain.
These endogenous cannabinoid-like substances that I've mentioned were elaborated and a good
deal of just straight pharmacology done on them so that we had the advantage of, for example,
showing the effects in animals on pain and showing the effects on control of motion,
things of that nature, from these basic science advances.
They were really quite remarkable and pretty exciting to
an internist clinician like myself who had no idea they had existed.
