Here is a cannabis indica, powdered cannabis indica.
On the back of it, it says one ounce.
This was powdered hashish from the Merrill Company
in Cincinnati.
And it says poison up here at the top.
A lot of these medicines say that.
Some people believed it was a poison.
But this was an ounce of powdered hashish or keef.
And it was both Park Davis and Eli Lilly
had some products like that.
Now here, we have cannabis tincture number 17.
It's physiologically tested.
And it's from Park Davis.
And there's a little PD embossed on the bottom of the bottle
there.
Next door, we have a cork that's kind of broke off
and residue in this bottle.
You can see it says it is poison right there.
And this is cannabis fluid extract number 96
from Eli Lilly.
So where this one is tincture number 17,
this is fluid extract number 96.
And I can't really tell you right off the top of my head
what the differences between those are.
This one is one of the rarest things that I've run across.
It's from the Allaire Woodward Company of Peoria, Illinois.
And it is still full.
It is a package of cannabis.
And I don't know exactly what's in there.
I'm not going to try to open it.
But it's about 90 years old.
It says the properties are a nerve ion.
It will cure your nerves.
Anodyne, knock you out.
Pseudorytic, and antispasmodic, and anti-epileptic.
So a lot of the things that we are currently
allowed to use medical marijuana for,
they were using it for back then in 1910.
On the bottom, the common names are foreign Indian hemp,
hashish, hallish, gallow grass, bong, ganja, churrus,
and one other, hemp, hemp from the German.
So this is a pretty rare package here.
And this is a package from the San Francisco Cannabis Buyers
Club back in the 1990s.
This was the way they packaged up.
It looks like this was five grams.
Very bright, bleak colored package.
It says, warning, may cause drowsiness, dry mouth,
mild euphoria, and short-term memory loss.
Do not drive or operate heavy machinery.
It's printed by the Purple Tree Trading Company.
And the price was $60 for an eighth back in the 90s.
And it's grade California green 5A.
Next to that, we have a full bottle, very rare thing,
from the Adamson Drug Company of Clarenburg, West Virginia.
It is your improved cough and cold compound,
a valuable expectorant and sedative
for coughs, colds, and simple ailments of the throat, chest,
and lungs.
The compound is valuable and in the treatments
of coughs, colds, simple bronchitis,
and spasmodic croup.
It also says, an unusually effective cough and cold
preparation.
It contains specially selected remedial ingredients
of rare quality.
So there it is.
And this is something I've been holding
onto for a number of years, and some chocolate preparations
that were quite popular back about six or seven years ago,
before the feds came in and shut them down.
This is a Dragon Bar.
It's chocolate almond dates with medicinal cannabis.
This one is called Uno Dos.
And it's a medicinal chocolate caramel bar.
I would say I probably would have a weakness
for chocolate caramel.
I'm probably carrying a good number of pounds
of chocolate caramel in mine.
Lame it on the chocolate, aren't you?
This one, I love the name of this.
This is Hashie's.
Hashie's Bar.
It's medicinal chocolate almond bar.
Very good.
Next over, we have a deodorant purchased at a local health
food store.
It's hemp oil deodorant.
It's made with the seeds of the marijuana plant.
Some people like to distinguish the THC content,
but it is from cannabis.
And then last but not least, another one
of my old products from back when I sold hemp paper
from 1990 through 1997, Tree Free Eco Paper.
This is 50% hemp and 50% straw.
And I imported about 60 tons of this in three containers
back in 1991.
So there you have it, hemp paper.
It's also mixed with cereal straw.
So that's the end of our sharing segment for tonight.
