When it comes to prohibition, you have the right not to remain silent.
And that's why we do Seattle Hymn Fest.
No amount of guns or tanks or jails or prisons
ever going to stop the March of Freedom
and the Song of Justice.
Because with all the warts and all the problems that we have here
in the United States of America,
us Americans, we love our freedom.
We love our liberty.
And by golly, we haven't got enough of it yet.
About 10 years ago, we used to hear this thing that terrorists hate us for our freedom.
I'm not necessarily sure that's true.
But our answer was, well, if they hate us for our freedom, then let's really piss them off and give us some more.
Let's legalize cannabis for real.
And that means repeal prohibition on the federal level.
That doesn't mean highly tax it,
restrict patients, close down dispensaries.
That doesn't mean piss tests,
be discriminated at your job.
That's not our version of legalization.
Last year, we had two adult lounges here
out of public view
where children couldn't see people,
fenced off
where people 21 and over could go behind the fence and smoke their pot.
Out of the view of kids, totally legal in the state.
But our state legislature passed 2136, Senate Bill 2136,
making it a Class C felony to have any place
for the purpose of using marijuana, which means no marijuana clubs,
no private clubs,
no pot parties,
nothing like that.
That's not legalization, folks.
That's a state legislature that treats cannabis like it's Oxycontin.
Every day I walk down the street, the sidewalk,
people smoking cigarettes like nothing with impunity, everywhere.
Even though 400,000 people die from,
directly from using cigarettes this year in America.
400,000 people directly from their use,
even more from secondhand smoke.
Drive down the street, you see people in front of bars, on the patios, drinking alcohol.
Even though over 40,000 people die from alcohol-related injuries.
Even though over 40,000 people die from alcohol-related illness.
Who knows how many people die from alcohol-related violence,
car accidents, suicides, accidents.
But you can't smoke a joint.
Does that sound like legalization to you?
Sure don't to me.
That's why we're going to keep doing this.
And then, you know, I've asked probably 10 times from the media this week,
well, why have a hemp fest? Is a pot legal?
I mean, is hemp fest, is there really a need for it anymore?
Is it really relevant?
Well, let me tell you something.
First of all, it ain't legal.
The federal government can shut this all down at any time.
But over in,
over in Germany last year in October, they had Oktoberfest,
where 2 million people celebrated the culture of beer.
And beer has always been legal in Germany.
So when pot's completely legal, we're going to keep doing hemp fest,
because this is a big cultural celebration.
This is our community and our family.
We deserve to have our own festival.
This is Bud of Seattle.
This is Tote Life.
This is Bomber Shoot.
This is THC Fair.
This is our party and we deserve it.
We are the most peaceful, non-violent, non-threatening culture on earth.
We are artistic.
We make awesome music.
We make beautiful art.
We make wonderful movies.
We have beautiful families.
We raise wonderful children.
We are one of the most beautiful cultures on the earth.
And we've been pissed on.
We've been shit on.
We've had our doors knocked down.
We had people pull us from our naked feet on the ground,
stick their foot on us,
jackbooted people wearing riot gear,
put a laser bead on our chest,
put a laser on our children's chest,
shoot our dog in our house,
kill our pets in our front yard,
then take us and throw us in jails and prisons and cages,
like common thieves and criminals and murderers and rapists and pedophiles.
It's still going on.
Today we have 50 Americans serving life in prison for marijuana.
Life in prison for a herb that's never killed anyone.
So it can rain on us.
We can come up hundreds of thousands of dollars short in our donation bins.
We can make 18, 20 cents per person for the whole weekend in our donation bins
for 140 bands, 120 speakers, 400 vendors, all for free.
Sure, we can have all kinds of pot organizations and magazines.
Don't help us. No, they throw an after party
or they do something to try to profit off of HempFest the weekend.
Or, you know, how about a convention in Tacoma on the same weekend as us,
bussing people to and from our event.
That's the kind of support we get.
Well, it doesn't matter because this isn't freedom.
This is not legalization.
It doesn't matter what we have to do.
If we have to sell our kidneys,
we're going to have HempFest year after year after year.
It can rain on us.
Our cars can break down on the way here.
Our staff can kill themselves 16, 18 hours a day in the drenching hot sun
and then in the rain.
It can be here all night long freezing.
It doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter.
It's not as bad as being on chemotherapy and not having pot.
It's not as bad as being in a prison cell and losing your freedom.
It's not as bad as seeing the old growth forest destroyed needlessly.
We're going to keep going.
