Hello. Joining us today in the program is the Executive Director of the National Association
of Criminal Defense Lawyers. Many of you may know him as somebody in a different capacity,
the founder of NORML, Keith Straub. Stop? Straub?
No, you said it right.
Keith Straub. Welcome to our show. Now, you started NORML is the impression I got. You're
the founder of NORML. How did that all get started? How did that come about?
Well, I was coming out of law school and I graduated in 1968. If you remember, those
were the height of the anti-war years. So like a lot of law students, I'd first been
introduced to marijuana as part of the anti-war movement. Back then, if you smoked a marijuana
cigarette, you were making as much a political statement as you were enjoying a recreational
drug. You were essentially thumbing your nose at the establishment that had gotten us into
the quagmire of Vietnam. But what began to happen were a lot of friends began to be
busted. And literally, the first few months I was out of law school, I had two or three
friends come to me who had been stopped because they either had long hair and got the attention
of the police or drove a van or there were all kinds of peace signs were on their bumper
or whatever. And when they'd pull them over, of course, they'd find a joint under the seat
or whatever. And as a young lawyer trying to figure out how to help these folks, I had
also just spent two years working on a group called the National Commission on Product
Safety. It was my way to stay out of Vietnam, to be real honest. I managed to get a critical
skills deferment and to avoid having to go to the war. And I was about 10 days away from
having to ship out when I got that. So I spent two years working closely with Ralph Nader.
And I was impressed by the techniques he used. And it seemed to us that instead of trying
to deal with individuals one by one who were being arrested for marijuana, and at that
point, by the way, the arrest rates were about, I think about 650,000 people a year, and over
90% of those were for simple possession of an ounce or less. And they were going to jail
for long periods of time, especially in states like Texas, but actually all over the country
they were. So we thought if we could start an organization that approached the problem
the way Nader did on a lot of his issues with a consumer perspective and to focus on the
unfairness of treating otherwise law-abiding citizens who weren't threatening in any way
at all as criminals simply because they preferred to smoke a marijuana cigarette rather than
drink alcohol, that there was a good bit of appeal to that if you made that case effectively.
So normal really was a concept that we sat down, thought up, and put together.
And then you took that concept and you made that grow nationwide.
Well, there certainly had been people with similar ideas before. There had been small
groups spring up in different parts of the country. I had trouble getting good funding.
It was obviously not a very popular issue back then. I'm talking now 68, 69, and 70.
You were perceived as being radical and certainly out of the mainstream. I managed to get some
pretty good funding. I managed to get Playboy Foundation behind the project early on. Hefner
would give us space in the magazine to focus on victims where if we were able to go in
and get someone out of jail or whatever.
So over a period of a couple of years, we did a lot of traveling. We'd go to Texas where
the situation was probably the worst. And we'd take journalists through the Texas prison
system, for example, because we wanted them to meet these people who were being locked
up and to see who these victims really were.
And in the process of that, the name normal obviously got some currency. And it began
to be recognized by at least a minority of the folks in the country as the public interest
group working on marijuana.
The major step forward in solidifying the country under one banner had to do with Amorphia
on the West Coast. It's a fascinating group that Gordon Brownell and Michael Aldridge
and there was a third person had put together. And it was a legalization group. And they
raised their funds by selling rolling papers made from cannabis.
And if you keep in mind, cannabis is what it's used in Canadian currency. It's used
in a lot of things. But it was nonetheless, it was an interesting idea because you could
in theory, raise your money from your own constituents to fund the project.
The problem was back then, it was similar to I think the political situation today.
If you were perceived as being pro pot, trying to turn on the world, you really couldn't
get access to legislatures and you wouldn't get access to the major media.
So we always said we didn't encourage the use of marijuana, but we recognized that for
millions of people who made the choice to use it, that's their choice. It's part of
the right to privacy.
So Amorphia had trouble continuing making their project work because they were perceived
as a little bit over the line. So we got to know them. They were doing very good work
on the West Coast and we were doing good work in most of the rest of the country.
So we merged Amorphia with Normal. We opened up a West Coast office. One of their people
ran it. One of their people came back and helped me run the East Coast office. And so
from about 1973 on, I think most of the serious work on marijuana law reform was done under
the banner of Normal.
Now when I was first hearing about Normal back in the 70s, I'm from Indiana and news
travel is a little slower usually, two or three weeks.
I'm from Southern Illinois so I know it.
We were always under the impression that if you got busted for anything, whether it was
a joint, a bag, no matter where you were at in the United States, if you got into a spot,
call Normal. They're there at your side and they'll fight for you.
Well and I think we pretty well did that. Now I'm sure there were cases where the help
we offered them may not have been as comprehensive as one would like to offer, but we had a lot
of calls.
But we also had a lot of young lawyers like myself, but spread all over the country, who
were getting out of law school about 67, 68, 69. They'd been radicalized by the anti-war
movement.
They began to get active in other social issues. So it was feasible back then that
when those phone calls came into my office in Washington, I could pick up the phone and
I had lists of half a dozen or more dedicated active lawyers in almost every state that
would at no cost drive across the state or whatever, get a bail hearing, get this poor
kid out of jail, figure out if they could negotiate something or if not, represent him.
And most of those times for no fee at all. They were really dedicated lawyers. So I think
that was an accurate perception of a lot of our activity in the 70s. But again, keep in
mind that we had to help people because that's what the guts of the issue was about. And
we also had to make sure the rest of America who didn't smoke marijuana got to know some
of these people. And the way we did it was we would go help them and then we would, with
their permission, publicize the case, both in the local media and sometimes in the national
media.
When did that start to change? I know that people now sometimes when they ring up NORML
they have difficulties in reaching assistance.
I'm not sure I can exactly follow it. I can tell you I was with NORML from, well, we started
it in 1970 and I left in mid-1979. So I ran it for about the first 10 years. Their political
side I think atrophied during the 80s. They still have an active legal committee, but
it's a legal committee that mainly holds CLE programs. In other words, they train other
lawyers. And they do some very good work and they have some of the finest lawyers in the
country that still are active on that side. But when the political climate of the country
began to get more conservative, I would say the parents' group started making a big impact,
anti-drug impact in the late 70s and then they really took hold in the early 80s. NORML
got positioned somehow to where they were no longer allowed to play. If you had a legislative
hearing in Congress or in one of the states during the 70s, they wouldn't have thought
about having a hearing without inviting us to have at least one spokesperson. And in
fact, the majority of the hearings that were held, we put on. We had a traveling road show
of psychiatrists and pediatricians and researchers. Dr. Whipple, a wonderful pediatrician in her
80s, Zinbergen, Weill at Harvard, Ungerleider at UCLA. We had some world-recognized psychopharmacologists
and others who were willing. And we would raise the money to do this, but we would line
up three or four states and set up state legislative hearings and take these people state to state
so they could hear from the real experts. Sometime in the early 80s, they quit allowing
NORML to participate and we were defined once again, or the organization was, as being too
radical. But I don't think NORML had changed. I think the country had changed. It had gone
this direction.
Okay. Now I know that our laws have gotten a little different over the past several years
and we hope to cover some of these aspects in your opinions, if they've gotten worse
or better, when we come back after this. Welcome back to our discussion with Keith Straub.
Keith, do you think that the laws have gotten worse or better? I mean, in some ways they've
gotten, and we know that we got the medical taken care of now, maybe in San Francisco.
And so that is positive. But on the overall, do you think they've gotten worse or better?
Well, it shows one's age to be able to put it in perspective. But I will tell you that
if you've been at this for a while or if someone's been focusing and interested in the drug issue
for some time, in the late 60s, it was the first war on drugs was announced by the president
and they passed a major anti-crime bill, I believe it was in 69, that in fact included
a provision introduced by then Congressman Ed Koch, who of course subsequently was the
mayor of New York for many years, to require him to set up something called the Commission
on Marijuana and Drug Abuse. And it sort of went unnoticed by the DEA and the government
agencies that thought they were getting through this first anti-drug bill. Now, I'll connect
back up with that in a second. But in answer to your question, the laws at that time were
very tough indeed. For example, in 1970 and 71, in the state of Texas, they had over — I'm
trying to — it's been a while since I've thought about these figures, but they had
over 100 people locked up for life sentences for possession of an ounce or less of marijuana.
Life sentence?
For life sentences. They had something like 600 people serving more than 30-year terms.
So there were pockets of the country where the laws were as outrageous then as they are
in the worst place today. I think the major change has been that people are more aware
of the tough laws now because they tend to be federalized. Congress every year tries
to outdo what they did the year before, and they pass more minimum mandatories, and they
pass more death penalty categories where people can be put to death. It has no impact, of
course, on crime. It has no impact on drug use. But somehow it's a demagogic experience
that politicians find works for them, so they keep doing it.
So things are, I would say, about as bad now as they've ever been because you've now had
all of the Reagan era and two years of the Bush era where they're trying to outdo themselves
and show how against drugs they are by locking up more and more people. But I will say this.
I don't think it's any worse today than it was in the late 60s, early 70s, and in particular,
I don't think the climate overall is any worse. You've got to remember, we were coming out
of the reefer madness era, and we hadn't moved very far beyond that by the late 60s. There
were still people that thought if you smoked marijuana, it was addictive or it made you
commit violent crimes. I mean, things that now seem kind of, well, like children might
talk about, but nobody who's educated would discuss those things. They were perceived as
being accurate in the late 60s. So what I see is a cyclical movement where, interestingly,
there was a book by David Musto, a professor of history at Yale University that he used
to do some testifying for us, that he talks about the history of narcotics legislation
generally. And it tends to go in, say, decade-long jumps where you'll go for a decade and the
country will be somewhat permissive, especially if the economy is doing well. We tend to be
a little bit more willing to let our neighbor do what they want as long as they don't bother
us. And so you get in a period where, as we were in the early 70s up through really the
late 70s, where the country essentially said, we don't really care if you smoke marijuana.
Don't flaunt it in our face, but we shouldn't lock you people up in jail with real criminals.
But at some point, then the pendulum starts swinging back. And clearly for the last 12,
13 years, it has been going in a more conservative direction. But that too will change. And I suppose
what I want people to understand is it is often during the times of the worst repression or
oppression that political activists and public interest associations do their most creative and
most valuable work. Our best work at normal, I honestly believe, was during the early and mid-70s
when it was tough out there and there was a threat of being arrested at every stop and the police
were, they didn't even want us coming into town. When we started making progress and started being
more acceptable and then when Jimmy Carter became president, etc., it was difficult to know what to
do. We weren't used to being insiders. So I would suspect what you're going to see is as bad as
things are today, three or four years from now, I think we will look back and feel very good about
the progress and unexpected progress in a lot of cases that are going to be made in the next few
years. I don't think it's a hopeless situation. I hope so. There are so many people out there now.
Oh yeah, I know. Now, you commented earlier in our discussion that you worked in association
with Ralph Nader. Now, that must have been interesting and beneficial to what you were
doing at normal. Well, I think he's the ultimate public interest lawyer and probably the role
model for hundreds and hundreds of people who came along after him. I was lucky in that when I was
hired at this Commission on Product Safety, they hired four young lawyers right out of law school.
And our immediate boss was a lawyer from Harvard who had been Ralph Nader's roommate in law school.
And when Nader first came and set up his first public interest group in Washington, this man had
been his executive director. So it gave me a chance to study at the feet of people who I consider to
be the masters. I think they probably defined the whole field of public interest law. Okay.
Now, do you see the hemp movement taking a major effect into the economy soon? And if so,
on a national scale or is it a global outside of America? Well, I've been fascinated by the
attention paid in the last year or two finally to arguments that had sometimes been made earlier,
but apparently didn't catch on for some reason. What I saw is during the 70s, we focused on
getting kids out of jail or people out of jail for smoking grass. That seemed to be the area that
needed the attention and also the area that people were willing to reconsider. Maybe they are
overreacting to this whole question of whether somebody smokes a joint.
The medical issue began to come along in the mid-70s when I remember when Bob Randall first
walked in my office and said, I'm a glaucoma patient. When I smoke marijuana, my vision
clears up. I thought this is wonderful news. I also wondered if I was dealing with somebody who
was a little flaky. Now, over the years, obviously, I got to know Bob. I greatly respect
him. He's led the charge on this whole question of the medicinal uses of marijuana. But for a
number of years, I think that issue has carried its burden. There's been probably more progress
made in that part of the drug issue in the last 10 years than in any other. Now what I see is I
see this economy or ecology and economy movement beginning to discuss seriously what hemp could do
for our economy and how it can help us avoid polluting our ecology. All of that is both good
in the sense that I think it has merit in its own right. It's also good because it makes it more
difficult for those who want to continue to treat us as criminals to justify marijuana as some evil
drug. So I'm delighted at the movement. I suspect that it has a lot of, there'll be a lot of progress
in that area too. Currently, you're working for the National Association for Criminal Defense
lawyers. Could you tell us a little bit what that's about and does it still allow you to keep
your hand active in the hemp movement? Well, I haven't really for the last 10-12 years. I haven't
been active in it. I still know some of the people and occasionally I'll drop by a meeting or
something. I certainly feel a sense of history and connection to it. But the hemp movement, I think,
is kind of a younger person's game. Not entirely, but I mean, I think it's important for all issues
that every few years you have a new young group of idealistic and committed and energized people
who care very much about the issue that you kind of pass the baton to. Sometimes they take it. I
mean, they're just good enough. They start doing good work and you start realizing you want to help
them with their projects. Now, what I do now is not terribly different, but it's not quite as
focused. I represent a cadre of lawyers who are terribly committed to the Bill of Rights.
They're very concerned that the war on drugs has, in fact, become a war on the Constitution.
And what the Supreme Court has done, in essence, is they've created an exception to the Fourth
Amendment that's a drug exception. If drugs are involved in a fact situation, they will overlook
police conduct or overlook the absence of a warrant and justify it on the basis of its drugs.
But if it's in an area without drugs, absolutely, they throw the evidence out. Well, there's no drug
exception in the Constitution. That's been created. They don't call it that, but that's
what they've done. So I do much the same kind of work, but it's a little more broad-based.
We oppose the death penalty. We train criminal defense lawyers so that they can do a better
job at assuring that a citizen who is arrested has a fair chance to tell his side of the story
and that unless the government meets their burden, that individual ought not to be in jail.
It's important work. It's not terribly different from what I did at Normal.
Okay. We have about a minute left. Our audience, I'm sure, is very interested in your background
and your knowledge and your perception of your avenues that you've walked down in life.
Is there anything that you'd like to share that would be an inspiration?
Well, I'll tell you, there was once when I was young—I'm 47, so when I was younger,
I guess I'm not quite dead yet—but I went to Ramsey-Clark when I was first thinking about
starting Normal because he was a hero of mine from his anti-war work, et cetera.
And I wanted to do it. I had it formulated, but it was a little scary to quit my job and jump off
the deep end. Ramsey said to me—I'd read his book, Crime in America, and he talked about the
need to legalize drugs. He said, Keith, do it. And I said, well, I want to, but I need encouragement
from people like you who I respect and you're wiser. It seems kind of suicidal. And he said,
do it when you're young, when you can be idealistic and make those kinds of risks,
take those kinds of chances. When you're older and you have kids in college,
you have other considerations you have to make. So I would say the same thing to younger folks.
If you've got a sense of commitment and you feel that something you care about is important enough,
follow that. It really is important. I have never had a moment of regret for the 10 years I spent
running Normal. Thank you very much. I've enjoyed having you on our show. I'd like to have you come
back sometime. Thank you, Casper. And until we have the opportunity to get together, keep active
in your community, keep healthy, keep wise, keep strong.
