About 25% of a gram every day and I eat it.
But it's huge, huge, huge, huge, huge, huge, huge, huge doses of THC.
And it's more than a hundred. It's almost...
Sixteen ounces of the prime bud dried to two ounces of oil or diesel.
You're talking about the Rick Simpson Cancer Healing Medicine.
And at 99%, at least I thought it was 60% at the beginning, but it's 99%.
And only on the four stages, the first stage, second stage, third stage, we didn't go.
Because those are 100% curable.
So you're talking about the cancer stage.
Yes, well the first stage is cancer, the second stage is cancer, the third stage is cancer.
And so this oil kills the cancer.
And fourth stage, you're going home to die because there's nothing else you can do there.
And all those people, 1,500 of them, got THC.
This oil, high phenobarbital.
Huge, huge, huge, huge, huge, huge doses.
And they are 100% closed, saved, and they're never coming back again for seven years.
Not one person has got it back.
That's like a miracle, isn't it?
No, they have two days to two weeks to two months to live.
And they all live seven years now, and there's no trace of cancer anymore.
And it's against the law in the United States for 37 years.
And we got it in 1973, 74, and 75 in the Commonwealth of Virginia at Richmond.
They showed that it was useful to kill cancer back then.
100%.
Skin cancer, melanoma cancer, brain cancer, lung cancer, prostate cancer, all these different cancers.
100%.
And what's great, too, we've been reporting on this at Normal.
We just had three stories in a row that came up on this where people were, researchers, of course, overseas.
I want to tell you, Normal, for the last seven years, had put, oh, this guy doesn't have the pancellatizer, no, no, no.
And I thought, everybody is wrong about this because I know it.
37 years ago, I wrote the fucking book on it.
And that's the thing, too, is we're starting to find all of these.
You did, didn't you?
I was there. I remember.
We're finding all this research that's coming out now that's just kind of nibbling around the edges here.
We had a report on, they did a long-term cohort study of chronic marijuana smokers who had been smoking for 10 to 20 years
and found that they had less incidence of head and neck cancer than people who don't smoke at all.
They find that the THC directly injected into prostate cancer cells in vivo or in vitro kills the prostate cancer cells.
And we found and reported on how people that smoke marijuana, when they take a look at their lung function,
their lungs are no worse off than people that don't smoke at all.
And so marijuana prohibition is truly evil.
It's an evil, evil thing to deny people a cure from cancer, to deny our planet.
I mean, it's earth medicine.
That's what John Trudell was telling us a year ago here that will solve a lot of our problems environmentally,
a lot of our physical problems, a lot of our economic problems.
Okay, cancer.
We're believers. You can tell that.
We're going to do a marijuana initiative 100,000 percent legal, legal, legal, legal.
Nobody can go to jail and everybody in jail for marijuana gets out of jail in California.
All right.
