We got a very much of a Latin crowd here.
Latinos here in the agente, there are few Latinos.
Few Latinos, well, okay.
All right, all right, we got some here.
Well, here's the deal, here's the deal, you know.
Here we are in Seattle, in Washington, you know,
we know we have 17 states, 17 medical states in America,
the United States anyway, this part of America,
that are medical states.
But what I'm here to talk about is the rest of the world.
There's so much going on everywhere else, not just America.
And the one thing we all got in common with all those guys
everywhere else in the world is we love one thing, cannabis.
Cannabis, yeah, cannabis.
And we got one goal between us all, and that is
to make cannabis legal, let cannabis be free.
And that's it, that's what brings us all together.
Because, for example, in Spain where I live most of the time,
you can have four plants, six plants, whatever,
it's not really secure exactly the number of plants you can,
but it's written into the constitution that you can grow cannabis.
I think that's a good thing, you know, that's why I live there.
Okay, and then in Austria, you know, Austria, where Vienna is,
you know, you think that one little country in the middle of nowhere
up next to Hungary, well, you can grow clones there.
I mean, one of my good friends grows 10,000 clones a week.
And he's got one of the many clone stores there, yeah.
100% legal, 100% legal.
And in Switzerland, things were going, 100% legal to grow cannabis,
God, for years, for years. We used to grow fields, fields,
literally fields, 10 acres, they call them hectares there.
But, you know, lots of, for a period of about 10 years.
But now, it's completely legal to grow four plants in Switzerland.
So they kind of went backwards.
But, you know, I'm just talking about serious legal growing.
And in the Czech Republic, remember, you speak Czechoslovakia,
and part of it was Czech Republic?
It's legal to grow there too, and by the way, cannabis is decriminalized.
Israel, Israel, any Jewish people here?
Israelis, yeah, yeah, okay, this is good, this is good.
Israel is one of the best places for growing medical cannabis in the world.
Israel, and you wouldn't think of it.
Of course, we all know that Dr. Rafael Mashulam, a Jewish fellow,
Israeli, he was the one that discovered THC,
and he also discovered the cannabinoid receptors.
In Russia, my first book is now coming out in Russia,
it's on the boat right now,
and it's going from China to America so we can ship it to Russia.
Anyway, it's still illegal in Russia, but they're growing all over the place.
Argentina, this winter I go to Argentina,
I go to Chile, Peru, or not, no, no, Peru, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Brazil.
And all three of those, well, everywhere but Brazil,
cannabis is legal, it's decriminalized.
You can have up to 20 grams, that's two-thirds of an ounce.
And then even in Mexico, where I went to school,
you can have five grams, legal.
So the one thing we got all in common is this cannabis,
and these guys in the other countries have done a better job of legalization than we have.
And we're leaders here in America.
We've already shown, I don't know if any of you guys ever seen my 10-pound plant video, it's on YouTube.
Just type in Jorge Cervantes in YouTube, you see that?
You see this big video of 10-pound plants.
We already teach everybody how to grow 10-pound plants,
and so they're looking for some leadership from us.
We've got to make cannabis legal in America, in the United States.
And that's what I have to say. Thank you very much.
