We're getting involved in this idea of what we call Hempstead Project Heart.
Hempsteadprojectheart.com, alright?
But you can't Google it. You've got to put in that little address thing up there on the computer.
But Hempsteadprojectheart.com, and that's really about we want,
we think it's time to start focusing energy on hemp specifically
as an alternative energy and economy and something that's healthy for the earth.
So we're looking at trying to encourage people that agree with that
to take any kind of act on it, however they know how to act, but to not be silent.
Do anything, do anything that you can because it all adds up.
Well, on the Hempstead thing, one of the things we've done on the site is we've put links
so that people can go and find out about hemp because I think a lot of people
don't really understand what hemp can do, you know, I mean, as a resource from food.
I don't think people really understand.
So if people would go look and at least check it out, check out the facts about what it's really all about,
and if they're in agreement on that, act on it.
I always ask everybody this one question.
If you could say anything to the marijuana community, what would it be?
Get out there and put these efforts into hemp.
I think the same energy and effort that was put into medical marijuana by the marijuana people,
the THC people, I think that same energy should be put into hemp.
I think by putting that energy into hemp it's more consistent
because when we go for the medical marijuana, it's just for us.
When we go for the hemp, we're now repaying the earth because it's for the earth
as well as for us because it's healthy for the earth.
We've used medical marijuana and wanted it because it's healthy for us.
Well, the same thing applies.
Hemp is healthy for the earth, so I would like to see the medical marijuana put some of the same intensity
and energy into now getting medicine for the earth that was used to get it for ourselves.
Yes, I agree. I'd like to see hemp around the world.
I think that it could be solving a lot of the world's problems.
Well, this is what I'm saying.
A lot of people think this or that or have opinions about it,
but what we're suggesting is go check out the facts about what can really be done with it.
By that I mean from food to clothes. Go check out the facts.
See what can really be done with it because we've got to take it from being just an abstraction,
hemp as an add-on.
If we're talking about global warming, climate change, all of these things we're discussing and talking about,
hemp has a tremendous impact on being able to help to balance what's happening.
So, yes, we're asking people to research, check it out, and if they're in agreement, to act on it.
And if they're not in agreement, well, then they're not in agreement.
