And what Raf said is true. It's about family.
It's about getting people out of cages.
And I was almost one of those people.
I sat in a cage for seven days after my facility was raided in Medford on May 23, 2013.
I'm the former executive director of Southern Oregon Normal.
My facility operated for almost five years next to the federal courthouse.
I was raided, along with my husband at the time, on a Thursday before Memorial Day.
Yep, that's what we heard.
A year later when we were due to go to trial, we had some really fine attorneys.
You've heard Leland Berger speak here today. He represented my husband.
Justin Rosas was my attorney.
We took a plea bargain and all of the 29 and 28 felonies were dropped against myself and my husband
in exchange for one Class B felony.
The charge was delivery of more than one ounce of cannabis to another medical marijuana cardholder
for no consideration.
And there was no such charge. That was a made-up charge to get those felonies to go away.
Fast forward to three years, mine has felonies been expunged as part of that plea bargain.
Our guns and ammunition were returned and that was also a first in the state of Oregon.
I continued to lobby with Compassionate Oregon and you've heard Anthony Taylor
and a couple other people talk about that today.
And in now the five years since that happened, we've done things like qualify PTSD as a qualifying condition.
And we didn't just do that for our veterans, we did that for people like myself who suffer from childhood traumas.
For women who've been raped, that's a trauma.
For children that have been beat, sexually molested, women who have lived with domestic violence,
all of those are PTSD and you all now qualify under the OMMA.
If you receive Oregon Health Plan or food stamps, you now only pay $50 and $60 instead of $200.
We did that, Compassionate Oregon did that.
And veterans, you only pay $20 for your application fee instead of $200.
We did that.
If you want the program to stick around, you want to keep your medical program, you better keep your patient card.
You medical growers, you better keep your medical patients.
You better convince some of those rec growers to get back on this side of the fence.
Because without a medical program and people registered, that patient program is going to go away.
You've heard them talk about that little golden box on my table over there at Delta 9.
Please, please I'm begging you, drop your coins in it, drop your dollar bills in it.
It'll be circulating throughout the crowd today.
If you know what the DAP market is, you'll see it there on Sundays.
If you don't, talk to me about it privately.
If you need your medical card signed, you talk to Paul Stanford or myself.
We've got a clinic or two to refer you to.
I'm the owner of Jim Strong Medical Consultants.
And that is dedicated to two of my mentors, Jim Grigg and Jim Klar, who are no longer with us.
And to me, to me, they represent what the Oregon Medical Marijuana Program should be forever.
Tomorrow is Jim's birthday.
Here's that box.
My lobbyist, Anthony Taylor, is one of the hardest working men in Salem.
And he is there to fight for the patients in the program.
And I ask all of you to fight for this life plant.
It saved my life.
And I have been cancer free for 15 months.
I ask all of you, talk to somebody every day about this plant.
Because it will change your life like it changed mine.
Thank you everybody. Let's have a great March.
