How you doing Seattle? I can't imagine a better group that I would rather have on
my side so I want to thank you so much. I am from Ohio and we've got a few good
things beginning in Ohio. Of course I've been working on this for a long time but
we have a couple different ballot initiatives going on or attempting to go
on that we're gathering signatures for and then we also have a medical
marijuana bill that I have personally helped write. My whole life I have not
been heard. When I was a little girl I couldn't speak until I was five. I
finally found my voice. You guys have given me the courage to find my voice. I
have a laundry list of things going on with my body but let me first give you a
little background on Tanya. Tanya Davis does not have a criminal record. Tanya
Davis is not a drug addict. Tanya Davis has just found out that I have massive
calcium deposits that are on my brain. Two weeks ago I was hospitalized so the
laundry list don't even matter anymore. You know I got all past that I've
learned to deal with that but the massive calcium deposits on my brain
it's not like I have cancer and I can go have chemotherapy and they'll take it
away. My calcium deposits are causing severe brain damage and before anyone
makes any comments no I have never done methamphetamine so that is not the
cause. I just found out that causes crystallization or something. Someone
made a smart-ass remark so but I am NOT about all that. What I am about is
fighting for my right to use this medicine. I choose to eat it. I am a
medical marijuana patient and I choose to eat my medicine. Okay back to the
calcium deposits on my brain. It's causing severe damage and medical
marijuana may be the only thing that can save my life or give my part of my brain
that isn't covered in calcium a chance to protect itself. So I truly with all my
heart if you need a reason to stand up for what's right use me. Please use me
because I believe I can be utilized in this movement in a positive way and
that's honestly you know when they told me that I was going to speak on this
wonderful main stage I was scared to death but then I got to thinking in my
mind hell I'm just talking to a few hundred of my own friends 200,000 of my
own friends. I love you too. Marijuana might be the only thing that'll give me
a fighting chance and I'd be damned if our federal government is going to stop
me for making this choice because don't I deserve to have a fighting chance?
You guys just gave me chill bumps by the way. It's the right thing to do. Bottom line
and yes so what if it makes you feel better if you're not a patient? So
fucking what? Thank you for having me in Seattle. Please go to look me up Tanya Davis Ohio in on
Facebook friend me. Find out what's going on with me if you want but I promise you
that until I have my very last breath I'm going to continue to fight.
God bless you and thank you.
