the
videotape that the studios of city video at evolution it's time for
cannabis common sense
the show that tells you the truth about marijuana
and the politics behind this prohibition
now here's the host of your show
paul stanford and
all
already
hello and welcome to another exciting addition of cannabis common sense
our show is a production
of
our political committee the campaign
for the restoration and regulation
and we are the sponsors of the organic cannabis tax act
that is a initiative petition that we're gathering signatures on
and now i'd like to have our
attorney
and treasure
and chief petitioner
and official ballot measure reader to go ahead
and read
the secretary of state
and attorney general's ballot title
thanks paul uh...
bail titles permits sale
of marijuana to adults
through state liquor stores
uh... results of the yes vote
yes vote permits
state license cultivation sale of marijuana
for met medical purposes into adults
the summary
status starts off
replaces state
local laws
on marijuana except driving the influence laws
directs the organ liquor control commission
to license marijuana
cultivation
by qualified persons and a purchase entire crop
commission sells marijuana at cost to pharmacies
and medical research facilities for medical purposes
also sell to qualified adults
profit through state liquor stores
ninety percent of net proceeds go to state general fund
small percentages for drug abuse education
and promotion of certain hemp products
ban sales to
and possession by minors
bans public consumption except where signed permit
and minors barred
provides penalties
uh... it's a uh...
it's a very explicit ballot title it tells you
uh... everything
that our measure will do
and in a fairly good way i think i mean the the wording is kind of stilted of course
but it's it's a quite good ballot measure paul
i think so
you know it it was actually drafted
by the secretary of state and attorney general's office
and it went through a process where it actually went before the state supreme
court
because of an error that was made in the attorney general's office they said it
would amend the constitution
when in fact it's not a
constitutional amendment at all
statutory measure
because that went to the supreme court very quickly it went through in just
three weeks which
i think the record for supreme court
acting on something in a quick manner
uh... but uh...
we've we've got it out we're collecting signatures and we need your help
to be able to put this important issue
on the ballot
is there a phone number paul? there is a phone number and that phone number is
two three five
four six oh six if you'd like us
to send you a petition
we'd be very happy to do so give us a call
at five oh three
two three five
four six
oh six
and what about those who are web savvy
yeah for the people who
who uh...
have an internet connection or can go to an internet cafe or to a college or
university or Multnomah county library that's true libraries too that's a good
point i don't think i mentioned that before
you go to any library
the address is right there on your screen
write that down
put it in the location part of the internet browser
and it's w w w
dot c r r h
dot o r g
that c r r h
stands for our political committee campaign for the restoration and
regulation of him
now you have to put this little thing
at the first of the web address the h t t p
colon slash slash
then w w w
dot c r h dot o r g
and you can actually print our petitions right from the internet so you don't
have to wait
for the mail and you don't have to come to our office
you can see a lot of different things there we have information
about uh...
just tons of different things why this initiative will be upheld in federal
court how it was designed
to be upheld in federal court
lots of other things too
yeah it's a it's a great website has uh...
some of the uh... historical documents
for concerning the uh...
prohibition of cannabis
uh... some great newsletter articles uh...
talking about around the world
can this reform
has the uh...
uh... what's the uh... briefer madness clips on there for people have this
more souped up computers that can uh...
uh... watch the downstream
feed of a of a film clip
uh... so it's it's all there for you uh...
but we're here tonight we're here
to help you involved
desire petition because it's just
you know every day we see them more and more taking away our our liberties our
civil rights or freedoms
uh... please more more wanting to
uh... take away people's homes and cars
uh... which is a great
uh... thing behind the uh... referendum that was pat or that
spirit friend but the uh...
recriminalization of small amounts of cannabis
that was passed by a state legislator here and signed by governor kitzhaber
uh... part that is is gonna allow them to take away people's automobiles and
cars for very small amounts of marijuana
yeah that's just what uh... the governor said when he signed it
he said quote
this has less to do with marijuana
as it does
increasing police powers
of search and seizure
in quote
so the governor spelled it out it's not about drugs
it's about money and search and seizure
they want to come in and if you've got
any marijuana at all
they want to be able to
search your car search your house
seizure property
and put you in their system
it would also
uh...
that bill would also require the suspension of your driver's license
you could be in your bedroom
you might not be under the influence of cannabis
they might find it in your sock when you're in the woods out camping or
something
whatever they do
they can suspend your driver's license
and they can take your property
and they can put you in their system where you've got to go through drug
treatment
it's it's you know
kind of a sad case or a perfect example of this is uh...
you know one of portland's you know uh... basketball players I guess ex-portland
basketball player now
you know cliff robinson was driving downtown
in a humvee
you know a very expensive vehicle
and the police pulled him over and they found you know
a gram or two of marijuana
and if this were pulled over you know after this law went into effect if it does go into
effect
they could have seized his humvee
for like you know a dollars worth or less of marijuana I mean
how much more ridiculous
you know do you want to be but
that's what actually happens out there
all the time yeah and less than a year ago they arrested
another portland trailblazer isaiah rider
with uh... just under a gram of marijuana
and uh...
uh... he went to court and they found him guilty under
the the
current law
if it had been the new law they could have seized some of his assets and his
belongings well he was in a car
I mean I think he was in you know a bmw or some fancy luxury car they could have seized
I mean
the police are famous for that
you know at the recent recent portland hemp fest in downtown waterfront park
uh...
let me digress here folks I want to
thank jeff and suzy crawford for of bohemia after dark
for putting on the great portland hemp fest it was a
a good success with all types of music and
lots of signatures gathered
but down there the police had a uh...
what they called on the side of it was a mobile command unit
it was basically a winnebago
and i'm sure it was a seized winnebago they had
and they now chock full of
police equipment you know a
a mobile booking lab and all that sort of stuff but something they obviously seized
from
uh... normally a law-abiding citizen and it just shows you that
you know the uh...
what's the what's the term the uh...
the police uh... industrial complex
what lengths they've gone to to keep themselves employed
you know uh... for a long long time it was illegal
for them to seize property
but with the war on drugs
back during the reagan administration
suddenly would they allow property forfeitures even though
to me that seems to be a bill of attainder and the u.s. constitution
prohibits bills of attainder
but they went ahead and passed it and declared it constitutional
so they're allowing police agencies to seize people's property
unfortunately that's become a primary motivation for them don't you think
oh very much so these days you know the uh... marijuana task force here in the
portland area
you know they've been quoted in the local media mainstream media saying yeah
they like
to bust marijuana growers because it's
a nice easy thing
you know they're they're real cooperative let them in and they have lots of
lots of things for them to take
stereos, cars, houses
you name it they take it and they're you know
and they're they're happy to take this stuff i mean if you don't have a house
that they can you know
try and forfeit
they'll take your stereo and tv
if you have a house that they can forfeit they'll leave behind your stereo and tv
so tell me it's not obvious what they're actually there for
yeah they're there to make money and to seize our property
doesn't have anything to do with drugs
and unfortunately too often when they seize drugs
those drugs are back on the market the next day folks
i mean those guys are out there selling marijuana
i've gone in as an expert witness on a marijuana case once
and they showed the
pictures of someone's
garden that they had seized with all these marijuana flowers
but when you looked at the actual plants
all of the flower tops were snipped off
the reason for this is that the police agents
snipped those off and put them out on the market where they can make
a pretty penny
you know marijuana today is more expensive than gold
it's four hundred dollars an ounce
that's more expensive than gold folks
it doesn't doesn't make sense i mean marijuana grows in the ground it's a crop
it grows on trees
fifteen foot tall trees
and it grows in a very few months i mean why should something like that
be more expensive than gold which you have to dig out of the ground
um... deep in the ground a lot of times and destroy the environment
very labor intensive very capital intensive thing
and why marijuana
a simple little plant should be more expensive it doesn't make any sense
unless you stop to look at
the military police industrial complex
that makes money out of this
uh... they want to put people in jail
and they want to grab a larger and larger part of the economic pie
and they do that
by creating these laws you know
if you look at the drug laws in general
each year
here in the united states
they arrest over a million people i think on drug laws
here in the united states we have more people in prison
than any other country
in the history of the world we passed the soviet union
in south africa back about five years ago
uh... we have more people in prison
than any other country
than the chinese do per capita
our country is the world's biggest
police state
you know that's frightening when i was a little kid i i grew up in in texas when
i was young
and i remember in our schools in texas they told us that
in the soviet union those dirty communists
send police officers into the classroom
to intimidate children to turn in their parents
well you know they don't do that in the soviet union anymore
there's not even a soviet union anymore
communism's not there anymore
but we have here in the united states
something that's much more insidious and worse
we send police officers
under the dare program
into
intimidate children into
turning in their parents and turning in
uh... their family and friends
for minor marijuana crimes
if you look at the overall
number of people that are arrested sixty percent of all drug arrests are for
marijuana
and so if you take those out
you're left with a very small number
of people to deal with
when marijuana is legal
the rest of the drug problem is going to be fairly insignificant
yeah it's you know it's it's really
quite frightening the amount of people we have in prisons these days
because you look at other industrialized countries around the world
that you know studies show all the statistics
that we're
we have less crime in the united states
than the common market countries
uh... have
you know that we have less crime here
uh... but yet we lock people up at a higher rate
and why is that because you know
because we're locking people up for
for non uh... for victimless crimes i meant to say that we have less
victim crimes
here in the united states than they do in other countries
other developed countries
and we still have a much higher rate of incarceration because of victimless
crimes
uh... we got people locked up and now
it's a it's a
horrible vicious circle because down in california
the largest union now is a prison guard union
uh...
which is really scary because they're the most powerful union now
and they donate a lot of money every election campaign
and
so they what they what do they what do they want their legislators to do
build more prisons
and you know a state can't afford to have an empty prison how would that look
so they just go out and arrest more people
exactly you know
in california and now in oregon
the state is spending more money on prisons and jails and incarceration
than they're spending on education
that's frightening
uh... college education
they're more they're spending more money on keeping people incarcerated than
they're spending on community colleges
and universities
and uh... there is just uh... misappropriation of resources
they're doing that primarily by prohibiting him
and you know what
we have the answer
we have the oregon cannabis tax act
this is going to legalize the sales of marijuana
it's going to regulate the sales
not just legalize it but regulated
currently
government has abdicated responsibility
the government has a responsibility to regulate this market
currently it's abdicated that responsibility to the black market
and those least able to control it
under the oregon cannabis tax act the government will come in
and control the sales of the drug marijuana
it will tax it
will license farmers to produce the drug
tax the recreational sales through liquor stores and bars and taverns
and it will
allow the untaxed sale of marijuana
to medical patients
in pharmacies
and on top of that it will allow industrial hemp
to be
grown without any regulation
industrial hemp
uh... can be used to produce more paper
more fabric
more protein and more oil
than any other plant on the planet
we need your help
to put these important issues on the ballot and start the real debate
let's get this thing
where we're all talking about it and we stop this war on us call us
get our petition
two three five
four six
oh six that's two three five
four six
oh six
you can look it up on the web
uh... if you've got internet access or you go to the library or university or
internet coffee shop
you can look it up on the internet at w w w
dot c r r h
dot o r g
help us restore hemp
we need your help to do that don't we paul? exactly you know we need your help to restore
hemp to its rightful place
as a as a medicine
as a industrial product that
you know we've used for thousands of years
uh... as a pleasure substance that people can use responsibly
that's what this is about is about you know
making choices
uh... having the ability to make the choice
the government wants to you know take away that choice for us
and for why for what reason
uh... they just want to have this prohibition machine out there
uh... control things
you know whether it's the prisons the police whatever they're just trying to
control us all
and you know our initiative octa the Oregon campaign
Oregon campus tax act
is about
uh... restoring our civil liberties
restoring our freedoms
yeah you know uh...
our initiative will create thousands of ecologically sustainable jobs
by allowing industrial hemp to be cultivated
it'll allow patients
to have access to marijuana at cost
currently we were saying just a moment ago it's four hundred dollars an ounce
in a real market i think the price should be more like
five or ten dollars an ounce
at maximum
maybe less than that maybe with taxes five or ten dollars
currently it's four hundred
that money's going into the black market
it's going into the hands
of uh... the people who are are controlling the black market
and unfortunately too much of that control
is in the very hands of those who are
who we hire
prohibited the police uh...
agencies
and uh... the marijuana task forces
they not only seize our property to fund their bureaucracy
but they take the drugs and sell them on the black market
and line their own pockets
our initiative will stop that
give us a hand with the Oregon cannabis tax act
you can do that once again
call us
two three five
four six oh six
well me i'm
our government both the Oregon state government and our federal government
spends you know
so much money on this you know war on drugs or the war on some drugs
uh... for what results
uh... very little results
you know from their point of view they
people still use
cannabis at a you know
at the same rate as they pretty much always have
and you know what we're saying is education is the way to go
take that money they're gonna you know
throw it away on this uh... war on drugs
and educate people so people can make a choice
you know all of our
founding fathers quote unquote of our country
all believe in education education would make
great citizens
uh... you know that whole time period you know in the
seventeen hundreds all across europe they grew him to that but all across
europe
so you know in the u.s. they said education is the key
they believe that
within a hundred years we'd reach this wonderful age where we'd educate and we
all would live in a great life but
instead we're in this
jefferson's worst nightmare we have a police state
thomas jefferson i think would be rolling over in his grave to see
that hemp
was prohibited today you know thomas jefferson
brought
certain hemp fiber strains into the united states from italy
he also invented a device
to process
hemp fiber
that device
mechanized hemp fiber production by having a mule drive
of the device that was uh...
a decorticating hemp fiber
uh... taking the bass fiber away from the herd fiber
he said that he was going to patent this device
so that he could give it away for free and that's what he did it was like the
tenth patent
granted here in the united states
he said he wanted to patent it
to prevent some interloping patentee from profiteering
from uh... distributing it and stopping people from uh...
uh... using it
so
you know we're trying to change that
you know even george washington grew hemp
he even experimented with hemp and said that he found the
art of quote the artificial preparation of hemp from silesia
of real curiosity
end quote
i don't think he was talking about paper or fabric there folks
the real curiosity he said he had
liked have more time
to use this artificial preparation of hemp he was president
when he wrote this letter to a doctor in england who sent him
this artificial preparation of hemp
said he'd have to make more time for that with the winding up of the session
of congress
the very founders of our country were hemp farmers
and they would be shocked to see today
that hemp was prohibited
yeah it's it's a sad we have people you know
getting together
you know the pharmaceutical industry
and the prison industry and the police industry all working together
to ban a simple plant
uh... to you know to take away our freedoms our freedom of choice because
you know people gotta realize that
i think they also they realize that if we're allowed to choose
our own intoxicant
we'll make it we'll demand to make other choices for ourselves
that the government right now makes so many choices for us it doesn't allow us to choose
you know everything
uh... that you can think of
that you know that they can't allow us to choose our own intoxicant because then we'll
start to think for ourselves
and that prison
police
uh... pharmaceutical industry just won't allow that
when they uh...
prohibited hemp you know i think that one of the key factors was
the fact that
hemp produces more oil
than any other plant produces three times more oil
than any other plant seed oil crop that's available today
and that hemp seed oil will run any diesel engine with no
conversion in fact the diesel engine the first internal
combustion engines were invented to run
on hemp seed oil back in eighteen eighty four
and it was fifteen years before they synthesized petroleum
to be like hemp seed oil
so that they could replace hemp seed oil
the reason they want to replace it
is because they can do that in a centralized math method
takes millions of dollars to find
oil and produce uh... petroleum
takes billions to refine it
it's a it's a very uh...
capital intensive industry and once you've already invested in it
you're not going to let go of it
so you want to you know
make sure you give money to your favorite congressman and senators
and vote your way
uh... to
keep on the prohibition of cannabis
uh... it's very very labor intensive
uh... capital intensive not labor intensive capital intensive
it's sort of insidious the way it has grown up
and stopped
all research into
uh... modern-day industrial applications of
of cannabis and its byproducts
like a whole
exploding field in the twenties
uh... in early thirties was found all these wonderful new uses
for cannabis and it's kind of stopped colon tracts
from these you know the
the oil people and the pharmaceutical people uh...
they're out there you know just
saying no you can't you can't have it
and they got together with the bureau of narcotics
uh... in the u.s. and put a stop to it
and put all this propaganda so people
would forget that it was ever a beneficial plant
they totally separated beneficial uses
from
you know the uh...
i don't know well
they made up a whole misinformation campaign they said that
marijuana cause people to go crazy and kill their family and friends
and in fact
it doesn't do that we know that today
but they made up this propaganda misinformation campaign so they could
prohibit it
at the time you know henry ford
had
invented
a car
that the body was made from
hemp fiber and hemp seed oil they fight and
it was like fiberglass today
and i've seen
old videotapes from the twenties and early thirties where
they take a sledgehammer and they swing it down onto the car
doesn't make a scratch it doesn't make a dent
in that vehicle
henry ford synthesized a car made with hemp fiber
the entire body was
and that's another one of the reasons it's prohibited
you know it's all about money it has nothing to do with drugs
the drug issue
is pardon the pun
a smoke screen
and it's meant to detract from the real issue
fortunately today
it's this prison industrial complex where we see
more people in jail than any other country in the history of the world
and
uh...
this
destruction of our civil liberties and the intrusion into our bedroom
they not even not only do they intrude into our bedrooms in our homes to see
what we're using
they'll test our urine and test our hair
and try to say that we're using
an illegal herb
this is an herb that
people
have used for
thousands and thousands of years
yeah and there's no you know
and with very little
harmful effects no harmful effects i mean
you know as people like drinking a martini after work at your home
and you put your feet up and turn on the tv set and drink your martini well
a lot of people do the same thing with
with cannabis
put their feet up turn the tv and
roll themselves a joint
uh... and that's all we're saying is give people that choice
so whether you know they can
choose the intoxication
intoxicate they like
so they can choose a medicine that they like and prefer
and they can grow the crops that they like and prefer and use the paper
that makes
more paper than
trees do according to USDA bulletin 404
hemp produces four times more paper
than the most productive tree species
that's a waste product for making
cannabis rope, lace and linden
protein and oil
we need you to call us we need you to get this petition
we need to put this important issue before the voters so we can start the
real debate
and let the people know
what is really going on here stop the build up
of the prison industrial complex here in the united states
call us
at two three five
four six
oh six you know we say that a lot
we hate to be redundant we don't want to bore you
but that's why we're here
we're trying to put this on the ballot
we need your help to do it
so call us now
don't delay
call us right away
we have a big voicemail system you'll probably get bumped over to that
but call us at two three five
four six oh six
if you're really in a hurry go to the world wide web the internet
and look up there at www.crrh.org
dot c r r h
dot o r g get your pencil
write down that address right across the bottom of the screen
yes we need your help
you know as we say don't be intimidated by the
fifteen
slots there for names
signatures on our petition
uh... even one is great
we need
you know everybody to help out here and you may you know be the only one in your
family who wants to sign this
among your friends
I'll be out there petitioning and the one guy or group of friends will come over
and sign it
and the rest of his friends won't
you know which well I'm happy but maybe he can educate his friends
so he'll sign it next time unfortunately a lot of people are afraid
to sign it they think their names are going to go on some list
i can tell you that
if we don't get enough signatures we're not even going to turn it in
if we do get enough signatures we turn it into the secretary of state's office
then they only keep it for sixty days
to validate that the people who signed it only two percent of the people who
signed it
are registered voters
so
that's what
uh... they do they aren't checking it to see where you live they aren't putting
it on some master police list
it's going just to validate
that people who sign it are registered Oregon voters
and that's what we need your help to do
call us one more time
two three five
four six
oh six
five oh three
two three five
four six zero six
call us today we'll mail it out to you in a plain brown envelope
and we need your help you know help yourself that's the big thing
help win back your own freedoms
hemp grows more in a single season than any other crop
in the temperate cooler climates produces more
fiber protein and oil than any other plant on this planet
and to prohibit the plant
that produces more fiber protein and oil than any other plant
that to me is truly evil
help us
put this on the ballot
we'd like to thank
Lanny Swerdlow
and his club in downtown portland
evolution
uh... for for taping our shows and helping put this on the air
thanks for watching
thanks paul
