Hey guys, this is LK. I'm backstage at Hempstock 2012 with Jim Page. Welcome bro.
Hey thanks, good to be here.
Very nice. I know that you've been involved with trying to help get it legal here
because I know a couple of years ago you did the Octotour and now you're here for Hempstock.
I want to thank you. Anything you want to tell people that you might know?
Well I played the original Hempfest up in Seattle too and I played most of those throughout the years.
I've known Vivian for ages. He's one of the most interestingly direct action, constructive people that I know.
I'm from the 60s generation and so I kind of came of age in the era when people were challenging all kinds of prohibitions.
And I'm a musician which means I've been around all sorts of substance abuses including mostly alcohol.
And we know what that does. I've seen what that does. I've seen the casualties over and over for years in the music community
and in the civilian community associated with music and so on and so on.
And you know it's a broken record to say over and over again that cannabis, smoking it, eating it, whatever.
I mean the worst I've ever seen is somebody might go to sleep.
Or they might start seeing little sparkly things and talk about flying saucers or something.
That's it. They're not going to get into fist fights. They don't get loud. They don't steal your stuff.
I mean it's just completely different.
And once you start to get into the whys and wheres of the prohibition and things were changed and locked away
it just starts to be kind of boringly the same as everything else in this country that gets hidden away and kept out of our grasp.
So if we can get actually close to changing it, I think that's fabulous.
If we can, I mean I've learned to expect the worst but I would love to see the best.
I personally think that people are better than we're allowed to think, smarter than we're allowed to think,
more generous than we're allowed to think. And I think we can do this.
I'm always prepared for that big letdown but I think, I've got my fingers crossed on this one.
It really looks good. It really looks good.
I know that Measure 80 here in Oregon, we have the opportunity to make it legal for recreational use amongst adults.
We were the first state to decriminalize and look where it came.
So if we can pass this and make it legal in Oregon, no telling where it's going to go to.
I think you might have already answered this but I always ask everybody I interview this one question.
If you could say anything to the marijuana community, what would you say?
I would say, what would I say? I would say keep going. I would say don't make a fool of yourself.
I would say don't be confrontational but keep going. Keep going. Don't let people shut you up.
Don't let people put you down. Don't let people tell you how stupid you are. Any of those things.
Keep going because it's a totally sensible thing to do.
Let me ask you a question. When it was decriminalized, so to speak, here in Oregon, did the murder rate go up?
No.
That's it.
Actually, a violent crime actually came down.
Yeah.
So anything that you think your fans would like to know? Where you're going to be in the future?
Well, I'm playing all over the place. I always do a West Coast tour up and down the coast like twice a year.
Once in the spring and once in the fall. So I'm looking forward to November is the next thing.
One thing I'd like to say which people talk about a lot and I've said this before but it's true.
I'm not an advocate of any particular use of anything but cannabis is an unlocking agent among other things.
Can I be blunt?
Yes.
The first time I took acid, way back when, the funny...
Acid makes you laugh. It doesn't allow you to. It makes you laugh.
You will laugh.
And the thing that is the most funny that I remember is pomposity.
Pomposity is the funniest thing on the planet.
Once you learn to laugh at pomposity, the game is almost up.
Because they can tell you what to do and what to think and where to sit down and when to shut up and everything else
with their big uniforms and their badges and their pompousness.
Once you start to laugh at...
So all I'm saying is that some of these things are unlockers.
They unlock your creativity.
They unlock your sense of humor and they allow you to see the ludicrousness of certain kinds of superiority.
I don't know how to fix guitars so I bow to the authority, in that sense of the word, of a guitar repairman when mine gets broken.
That's the only definition of authority that I give any credence to.
The other one, you're not an authority. You've just got a gun.
You can put me away for ten years.
That's not authority. That's force.
That's all that is.
So if we can get things square and straight with our terminology and we can learn to laugh at the right time
and we can understand that unlocking our brains can be dangerous to some other people now we understand why they don't like us,
I think we'll be fine.
We just keep going.
We allow people to slowly but surely understand that we're not endangering them.
The murder rate isn't going to go up.
The world isn't going to fall apart.
The earth isn't going to hit with asteroids and dinosaurs.
I'm not going to come back all of a sudden.
It's going to go on.
We might even get some constructive things done.
Very nice guys.
Again, this is LK backstage at Hempstock 2012 with Jim Page, one of the most wisest men I've ever heard after just hearing this interview.
I want to thank you for everything you've done in the past and what you'll do in the future.
It's just an honor to interview you, sir.
Thank you.
