And this hero died before he could see the freedom which he fought for most of his life.
Our elders are dying every day and with them goes a knowledge that may never be recovered.
Forced some for their entire lives to hide what they know instead of sharing it with others for
fear that others may seek to end their lives to keep this information from the general public.
Education is the only way to get the freedom we seek for this plant and ourselves.
Understanding will only come when the people open their eyes to the possibility that they have been
misled by the media and certain corporations or government organizations about the true purposes
of a naturally occurring substance which had had a symbiotic relationship with all life on earth
until the 1930s. Discrimination and prejudice towards the cannabis plant and those who choose
to utilize its broad applications will always exist if fear and ignorance are the only tools
being used to fight our oppression. If you know me or have seen me around I've usually got a camera
that's kind of what I do as an activist. I go places, I meet people, I participate in
the global cannabis community because this is a global community which we are trying to represent
here today as a respectful and informed group of concerned citizens that want their opinions to be
recognized. I have had a tremendous opportunities over the last decade or so which allowed me to
travel to great places and meet even greater people. I'd like to thank the people and
organizations that helped me to reach out and educate others. Although I've been involved with
many organizations and groups looking to forward the movement towards true cannabis freedom,
you know, like where it's growing on your parking strip like roses, I believe that individual
activism is the real key. You don't need to sign up with only one group of people. You can find
your way into multiple channels of this beautiful plant and its abilities. I have always preached
that there are three types of uses for the cannabis genus plant type. Industrial hemp,
medical cannabis, and recreational marijuana. If you think you know your pot, you just might not.
Seriously though, there's a ton of information about the plant and its uses in its
multiple forms, so please do some research and tell your family what you've learned. Strike up a
conversation about something you know about cannabis that the person you're talking to probably doesn't
know and they will find an interest because you have the hot topic talking point right now.
