Let's unite today under one banner.
Normal, Normal Women's Alliance, Organ Green Free, THC,
all of the organizations, Greenleaf Labs,
everybody, the Wellness Center, Cannibalist,
we're all out here doing the same damn thing.
Trying to end prohibition.
Like Anna said, I'm tired, tired, tired
of seeing my people go to jail.
I deal with women every day and men that cry
because their children are taken away from them.
You know, you think medical marijuana is enough,
but it's not enough to protect your parental custody rights.
They will take your baby.
And just like Reinhardt, is that what her name is?
Lindsey Reinhardt, she came over here and spoke here
for freedom and they took her baby from her.
How can you think medical marijuana is enough?
It is not enough when our people are being incarcerated,
when our economy is suffering while other countries'
economies prosper from industrial ham.
It is ridiculous.
And you know what the biggest complaint as we moved forward
with our House Bill 3371 was?
We didn't get complaints from the state police.
We got complaints from the local sheriff saying,
where's our cut?
So this is time for us to do it.
You contact your representatives and you let them know
that it is time to move forward with House Bill 3371
to allow us to build colleges and not more prisons.
Let's send our kids to college.
Let's stop sending our kids and our future to prison.
You know, I'm the grandmother of six children,
three boys, three girls, and I'm proud as hell.
And you know what I fear every day?
That they are being disproportionately not only
incarcerated, but racial profiling is a huge problem
across the nation.
Our prisons are filled with blacks and whites,
and poor whites and brown people like me.
And I'm tired of it.
You know, just because we brought marijuana to this
country, god dang, guys, we try to do something good.
Y'all love it when you're getting high.
Don't put us in jail now.
Right?
Help us out, folks.
And I want to thank Russ and Iko,
this guy who took over Oregon Normal.
And it lives on, baby.
Scott, Paul Loney, Lee Berger, all of you guys.
I love you all.
Come to the Cannabis Cafe.
Let's go party.
Hey, girl!
