Hello and welcome to the Seattle Million Marijuana March, which is put on by the folks with the
Seattle Hemp Fest.
We're here to document the march, which leaves from Seattle's Volunteer Park and heads over
to Westlake Park over in downtown Seattle.
Looks like a crowd of about 300 people here at the start of the march.
Maybe a little more.
It's growing, so that's a good thing.
And so we're about four minutes away from the start of the march.
Let's do a stand up boycott for when we get to a populated area.
And let's get out here in the crowd.
There is a peaceful solution called a peace revolution.
Peace revolution, now let's take back America.
There's a war and we're in it, and with love we can win it.
So let's take back America.
Take back America.
It's a dream, so believe it.
Now get ready to receive it.
Now let's take back America.
When the war is over and we've won it, let's remember how we've done it.
So we don't have to do it again.
So we don't have to do it again.
There was a peace resolution and a peaceful revolution.
And a peaceful solution saved America.
And a peaceful solution saved America.
There is a peaceful solution, a peace revolution.
Let's take back America.
It's a dream, so believe it.
Now get ready to receive it.
Now let's take back America.
Let's take back America.
There was a peace resolution and a peaceful revolution.
And a peaceful solution saved America.
And a peaceful solution saved America.
We will not be persecuted. We will not be scapegoated. We will not be demonized or imprisoned any longer.
This is a civil rights movement and it's sweeping the world.
Our own educated and informed choices on what we use for medicine,
in industry, for spiritual purposes, and for recreation as adults.
We do not need you in our living rooms. Thank you.
Nobody has ever lived in a time like this in the history of humanity.
These are times of major transmission for human behavior.
This change is manifesting in so many ways that it would be difficult to compute them all.
One can only guess what the result of this gradual metamorphosis will be.
But there is one thing that is certain to any discerning person.
And that is, as a people, to have any kind of positive impact or effect on creating a desirable future for the generations that surely will come.
Should a global calamity, we gotta come together right now.
The people who will have the most successful impact on the world will be those who follow principles and ideals based in values that are morally and ethically right.
That are sound and self-evident.
Policies of governments which condone acts that are unlawful to the sovereignty and autonomy of the individual as a human being should not be considered acceptable or tolerable by the citizens of those governments.
These include policies that strip rights of free speech, choice of religion, racial and sexual equality, and other rights that do not interfere with or prevent the rights of others.
America's war is humanely unlawful. It's unacceptable.
Unacceptable human rights violations across the board have resulted from the criminalization of otherwise decent, law-abiding citizens.
It's primarily for possessing, using, or selling only those drugs which the established status quo hasn't had the opportunity to cultivate some sort of financial monopoly on yet.
War on drugs, you know, it's not even possible. You can't do that.
You can only wage a war on people.
So the concept is logically flawed by design.
We stand here on the 50th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
But we have more people in jail in the United States than any other country in the free world.
We're in for victimless, non-violent crimes. Many of them are first offenders.
Previous to today, the very proclamation of a drug war was absurd.
To have a war, there must be two opposing sides, both taking some casualties.
It would be more accurate to call the previous years a drug massacre.
People who choose to recreationally use, or sell, or buy, or manufacture substances not approved by the government,
we cannot defend ourselves, lest we risk arrest and incarceration, the loss of our job and our home.
Nobody has statistics on responsible recreational users of substances,
because those people aren't creating any recordable problem in their lives or in society.
The emergency room does not receive the folks while they're casually kicking back on their sofa, driving the remote control.
The radical leftist claim of cultural genocide of sorts, I believe, is qualified by the gross discrimination against and deliberate...
I'll try. It's a long speech. I'll try to slow down.
Deliberate scapegoating of people who use illicit drugs, even marijuana, unarguably the mildest drug of all, and by most definitions, an herb.
...hundred plants or more, the result of the loss of all welfare and other public aid,
student loans and Pell grants, public housing, GI Bill,
also the forfeit laws, they're not forfeit laws, they're seizure laws.
Forfeit means you voluntarily gave it up.
They're taking it. House, car, bank account, computers, they'll wipe you out, man.
It can result from one felony marijuana arrest.
Mandatory minimum sentencing guidelines prevent judges from stopping 20 to 30 year sentences for marijuana offenses,
with no parole possible.
Rapists, pedophiles, murderers, for some reason their crimes are not worthy of such punishment.
In most cases, they get much less sentences according to our law.
A very sophisticated and dedicated activist, many of them family members of prisoners or ex-prisoners themselves,
there's a formidable foe to the phony, unwinnable catchphrase, war on drugs.
Based in humanitarian ethics and common sense, based in compassion,
and seeking an all-out total war as we are on addiction, poverty and abuse.
That's what we need to fight for.
