It's all about all the beneficial uses of cannabis and hemp and marijuana.
And you know, Oregon, I'm sure you all know this, just legalized the cultivation of hemp, one of the first states to really go that far.
So, give thanks. Give it up for Oregon!
I want to tell you all a little bit about a plant I know that can save the world.
It grows long and tall and has flowers that can make your mind swirl.
It's a funky plant with a fiber that is resistant to rain and mold.
It's the strongest plant fiber known to man, the best rope you'll ever hold.
Well, the pioneers covered up the wagon trains with a canvas made of hemp.
And Washington and Jefferson, they glued on their phones and said they'd make the most of it.
The first stars and stripes were sewn on hemp, the first constitution too.
It's used around the world for food, fiber, oil, medicine, and fuel.
And if we're breaking the seas, we won't have no need for any other oil.
We can make paints and links or run our cars going back to next season.
It'll fix the soil that wasn't just a seed. We can put an amount with omega-6 and 3.
We can feed the world with the tree of life and live sustainably.
But if we cut down all the trees, we won't have nowhere to breathe.
We'll grow fields of hemp instead. We can make our paper build a house from it.
We've got to spread, grow wild and free, living the way that we ought to be.
Gonna leave my children a better world than my ancestors left me.
Whoa, whoa.
La, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la.
Whoa, whoa.
The power of the female hemp plant makes the best medicines on earth.
Helps cancer and AIDS patients eat their food.
Helps those with depression overcome the blues.
For comatose epilepsy, nausea, insomnia, stress, neurosis, psychosis, pink PMS.
All the studies have been done and all the doctors agree.
But they can't make money off this plant you see, because it's free.
It grows from a seed of wild and free like we ought to be.
And all the future is grown in our own backyards.
But if we cut down all the trees, we won't have nowhere to breathe.
We'll grow fields of hemp instead.
We can't make our beds, we'll build a house from it.
We've got to spread, grow wild and free, living the way that we ought to be.
Gonna leave my children a better world than my ancestors left me.
Whoa, whoa.
So in this modern day and age when we seem to lack spirituality,
this one single plant can bring us back 10,000 years in history.
To the Shiva, Puranas, the Jesus, the Christ, to the Buddha, the pagans, the goddess, the light.
You can be with all the animals, be one with all the trees.
You realize the goddess is inside me.
As the earth is among us, we gotta take care of the earth.
The earth is the mother, the gift, it's not birth.
And we can heal all our sins with a single green plant.
We can start right now.
If we cut down all the trees, we won't have nowhere to breathe.
We'll grow fields of hemp instead.
We can't make our beds, we'll build a house from it.
We've got to live a little while in freedom.
Living the way that we ought to be.
Gonna leave my children a better world than my ancestors left me.
Whoa, whoa.
