Initiative petition 53 which will have a new ballot measure number come August 2nd.
It stops treating marijuana use as a crime. It regulates, legalizes, and taxes marijuana similar to how we do beer and wine.
It sets up a wholesaler, retailer, producer, and processor licenses through the Oregon Liquor Control Commission.
It will be tasked to making sure that only adults over the age of 21 are utilizing cannabis.
And will be responsible for collecting the taxes that are generated which are $35 per ounce for flour, $10 per ounce of leaf, and $5 for every marijuana plant that's sold.
40% of the revenue generated will go towards education. 35% goes to state and local law enforcement.
20% goes to the Oregon Health Authority for mental health and substance abuse treatment programs.
And 5% are allocated towards drug prevention.
There are home, limited home cultivation allowed similar to home brewing and making your own wine.
That's allowed and it clearly protects and explicitly protects the Oregon Medical Marijuana Program.
So it does not impact the medical marijuana program at all.
So if patients need higher possession limits and the recently licensed and regulated facilities through the Oregon Health Authority are not impacted by the new approach Oregon measure.
And finally, the State Department of Agriculture is currently not, you know, is currently had a policy of not licensing industrial hemp farmers.
But that's slowly but surely changing.
The new approach measure just mandates that the State Department of Agriculture cannot rely upon the federal government to deny industrial hemp licenses for qualified Oregon farmers.
So hopefully it will help open up a new market for our farmers who aren't allowed to currently possess industrial hemp.
So in short, it will end the arrest of, you know, over 10, arrest or citation of more than 10,000 Oregonians, better direct our law enforcement resources, regulate marijuana like beer and wine for adults over the age of 21, and generate millions of dollars of revenue for our state.
So the first question we have is with this measure, how would taxation work?
And is there a difference between taxing flowers and process products like hash oil?
Question of taxation.
So under the new approach Oregon measure, we tax marijuana one time and that's after the first time it's produced and sold.
And it's taxed at basically $1.25 per gram of flower, $10 per ounce of leaf and $5 for every plant sold.
So if you are using the flowers or leaf to make edibles, oils, hash oil, whatever that may be, the marijuana that goes into the product has already been taxed.
And there's no additional sales tax, no additional taxes beyond that.
We do allow vertical integration.
You don't have to be vertically integrated if you don't want to.
We think it's one of the things we've taken like the best from Colorado's legalization measure and the best from Washington's legalization measure to give Oregon, you know, really small businesses the flexibility to shape their business the way they see fit.
In Colorado, the marijuana retail stores have to grow 70% of what they sell.
In Washington, you cannot grow and sell.
You can either be a producer or a retailer.
So that's led to some of the supply problems they've seen in Washington in their rollout.
Under the new approach Oregon measure, if you're a producer who sells to a retailer, then you'll pay the tax after you sell to the retailer.
If you're vertically integrated to where you're a producer and retailer, you're not actually taxed until after you sell it to your customer.
So the marijuana is taxed the same regardless of what product it went into or what you sell it for.
It's all about the weight.
