Thank you Scott and thank you Oregon Normal, Portland Normal and everyone who helped put
this march together.
And most of all to all of you, Stoners, my people!
Yeah!
There's nothing to be ashamed of because we smoke pot.
You should be proud.
Be proud and march with us and show your cannabis pride out there and let people know that we're
not different from them.
We're law-abiding citizens.
We just choose a different substance.
It's safer than alcohol.
We're not out there beating our wives and making a mess of our family lives because
we use cannabis safely and responsibly.
And that is Normal's message.
The national organization for the reform of marijuana laws.
We are the oldest organization, reform organization in the world.
Not just the United States, but the world.
And now we are in every part of the world.
Actually, I was lucky enough to have to head Oregon Normal and we became the largest chapter,
almost 3,000 members, paying members in the known galaxy.
That's right.
We were bigger than ever.
It was the end of a era when we left.
But I will tell you what, Normal's doing a great job.
I'm at the national level and we've got a lot going on.
We're trying to fix these ridiculous laws about medical marijuana.
And please listen to what Lori said.
Keep the medical marijuana program strong, guys.
We fought so long and so hard for it.
Don't let it go.
Don't you let it go.
Be something.
Be involved somehow, someway.
And you know what?
Today I'm here because not only am I a professional stoner, but I'm a political person.
And I'm here stomping for Bernie Sanders.
Because Bernie Sanders can save America.
That's right.
I'm going to say it.
Trump's a chump.
And I'm sick and tired of hearing people tell me that he's going to win the presidential
election.
Give me a break.
But anyway, I just say to you, one of my issues right now with Kate Brown, the governor of
our great state, and I love Kate.
We go back a long way.
But I think that it behooves each of us Portland, Oregon citizens to let her know that we are
all about Bernie Sanders.
And I have a number here.
You can call Kate Brown, our governor, and let her know that you would like her to represent
Portland and Oregon properly.
And we are Bernie.
We are a blue state.
And I love Hillary.
She's wonderful.
But I can't have somebody who's beholding to Wall Street in the White House.
Haven't we had enough of that already?
So let's fight.
Let's fight hard.
Don't forget, the primary's coming up here in Oregon.
Vote for Bernie Sanders, please.
And if you feel, go out and let Kate Brown know.
Her number is 503-378-4582.
And just remember, people, we are government.
We the people.
And if we don't let our voices be heard, then we have no right to complain.
And if you're not a registered voter, we've got voter registration cards right over here
at the Bernie booth.
There's some at the Oregon Normal and CCRH booth.
They're all over the place.
Please go look for them.
Register to vote.
It's so important.
Thank you all so much.
I love you.
