This is not a war on drugs. This is a war on my kids that need medical marijuana to make their day pleasant,
to help them relieve the symptoms of nausea, to get over the symptoms of chemotherapy,
to make them feel good each day they get up in the morning.
That's what this war is about.
Turn on all your friends, all your relatives, all your grandmas and grandpas.
Tell them that this war on marijuana is bullshit.
Welcome to the Buyers Club.
We've got today all kinds of food goods.
All the food is $5 a piece.
Those are peanut butter cookies.
These are chocolate chip cookies.
Banana bread made by my partner.
Rice Krispies made by Larry who also works here at the Buyers Club.
And cooking marijuana, cooking leaf.
This is so you can cook these things at home for yourself and be able to make your own.
And tincture, it's marijuana blended in vodka.
And you just take a few drops of that.
We also have marijuana that you can smoke.
And depending upon the quality of it determines the price.
So of course this being the most potent, this is the most expensive one with the sliding scale.
The two here are California green and these two to the left are Mexican.
This is 20 and this is 40.
This is 65 and 75.
75 is very, very pungent, very aromatic.
I'd like to tell you a little bit about the Buyers Club and how it came into being.
My best friend, my warder brother of 14 years, Jonathan West, had AIDS.
Jonathan was taking a myriad of drugs like every AIDS patient.
And all those drugs have severe side effects from constant nausea to appetite suppressant
and to making you feel really bad.
The one drug that was really helping Jonathan was marijuana.
It was the one drug that allowed him to ease his nausea, to stimulate his appetite.
Yes, and it was the one drug that made him feel a little bit better.
When Jonathan died, me and my friends collected 16,000 signatures
to put a medical marijuana initiative on the ballot.
And the people of San Francisco responded by 80% to legalize marijuana as a medicine
to help people with AIDS and cancer and multiple sclerosis.
The Board of Supervisors in a resolution 741-92
ordered the district attorney and the chief of police to place the marijuana enforcement laws
for medical purposes as to be their lowest priority.
Marijuana, although it is illegal, helps people.
I'm working to legalize it for these people.
And one only has to spend one day at the Buyers Club to know
that this is a medicine that works for a lot of people.
My kids turned me on when I was in my late 40s, I think.
I'm 75 now.
I didn't used to smoke it regularly.
I just smoked it when they were around and we celebrated, you know.
But I was diagnosed with glaucoma a year ago in April.
And I'd been told for years that it would help the pressure of glaucoma.
You know, you'd go blind with glaucoma.
But I went to my ophthalmologist expecting him to be able to write up a prescription
and I found out that it was illegal.
I hadn't paid all that much attention to it before, you know.
I sort of knew it was illegal.
Anyway, then I started writing letters to officials and one thing and another.
I wrote a letter to Angela Alioto, who is the president of San Francisco Board of Supervisors.
And I told her I had heard that her husband, who had had cancer and had used marijuana
to help him through his death.
And anyway, I wrote her a letter about what was on my mind and she wrote me back
and told me to call Dennis.
I'd never even heard of Dennis before.
And this was maybe last January.
So I called him and Dennis invited me up.
And having glaucoma is an end for me.
We all who are members here are sick.
You have to have a letter of diagnosis from your doctor.
HIV, cancer, multiple sclerosis, serious back injuries, paralyzed, disc injuries.
Essentially anything that marijuana is good for.
If you have the anorexia, marijuana would work.
And for pain management, marijuana works.
And if you're extremely depressed, instead of Prozac, marijuana does work.
I use marijuana because it helps me relax.
I was in a really bad car crash in 1987.
And my neck and shoulder was injured.
And they go into spasms sometimes and it gives me terrible headaches.
So if I smoke some marijuana, it helps all those muscles stay relaxed
and I don't get headaches.
And I can avoid it and prevent them rather than wait until it gets really bad.
I have an HIV-related kind of arthritis of the spine.
It's called Reiter's Syndrome.
And it helps with my pain, helps me sleep and keep up my appetite.
It alleviates nausea, helps calm me down.
It relaxes me and it helps me control, kind of manipulate stress.
Instead of letting stress manipulate me.
It helps me be more calm and it makes me laugh.
It makes me look at life in a different perspective perhaps.
Well, basically I'm here because of three different reasons.
I can get pot better quality, consistently and cheaper to hear than I can on the street.
Which is more of a practical reason.
But in terms of medical reason, is the fact that I've got something called Drusen's in the optic nerve.
It's basically sort of wart-like excrescence that's on my eyes, on my retinal memory.
And what it does, it is decreasing my field of vision as well as increasing the pressure in my eyes.
And also produces a lack of binocular focus.
When I smoke a pot, it helps reduce the pressure and brings back my binocular focus so I can see somewhere.
I still can't see completely, but I can see a lot better after I've smoked a joint than I could beforehand.
So that's why I'm here.
Basically to restore appetite that medication takes away.
To make sleep easier as it corrects insomnia.
Spiritual reasons I acknowledge the need in all human beings to get high.
To remove themselves temporarily out of an everyday frame of mind.
Or another frame of mind.
One that's, you might say, somewhat exalted over the everyday.
It gives me a great deal of relaxation.
I'm in a serious, depressed state.
I have MS.
And it's hard to believe that seven or eight years ago I was able to ride my bicycle from here to Santa Cruz.
This place is really great to get marijuana from because for one thing you don't have to take your chances out on the street.
Like going to Dolores Park, for example.
Where you're never quite sure what quality you're getting.
Or if you're going to be robbed.
It's just dangerous.
This is a safe place and I think it makes a lot of sense.
Reality is the medical marijuana clubs have operated without interference from local police or federal drug agents.
Our manpower doesn't permit to really operate at the street level.
So it is a low priority right now.
Yes, it would be.
I really think the individuals involved with that program are very sincere.
And they're trying to do something to alleviate their pain versus other methods.
And I think it's something that the justice system has not responded to that particular social need yet.
I got involved with Shanti to begin with when the epidemic first broke.
And from there I went to San Francisco General Hospital, the AIDS Outpatient Ward.
I've been there. I call them all my kids because anyone who could have been.
They could have been yours, they could have been anybody in this room.
And so I was baking at a safe house.
I was baking for about 20 or 25 kids.
Whenever I could get enough leaf donated, I would bake as many brownies as I could for the leaf that was donated.
And I would deliver them to kids with AIDS free of charge.
And then of course I got busted.
And that seemed to be the shocker around the world for medical marijuana.
They wish they'd never ever busted me.
My kid was selling a little marijuana on the side for a little extra income.
And they were basically after him.
And I was up there baking that day and they got me too.
And thought, yay, they said, guess who we've got here? Brownie Mary.
And they thought that was a big deal.
However, it really backfired on them.
The book is basically Dennis' and all the other people that made contributions to it.
My contribution was just the recipes and the story of my activism.
There's all kinds of good recipes in the book.
There's a great shrimp casserole, there's a rice side dish, there's a black bean soup, macaroni and cheese, hemp salad dressing, chestnut stuffing.
There's a good recipe for chocolate chips.
And so we all did this book and put it together and we've sold almost 5,000 copies.
We're just about out and going into the second edition.
Right now we have 22 people working here.
We're hiring the bakers to scale people to doorman and people that just roll joints for the people.
Everyone that works here has either got AIDS, cancer or multiple sclerosis.
We hire from the community to serve the community.
I'm the baker. I make the cookies.
There are several ways of doing it.
Like THC, the leaf is dilutable in any kind of oil or butter.
And there's another way of using alcohol and increasing the potency, which I'm just experimenting with.
So far I've just used my leaf in a crock pot with butter that would soak overnight and get magnificent results from it.
I'm just trying to find a place that does this.
It's a medical marijuana brownie. It says here right on the label.
And they don't quite have the fact statement on there yet.
The guy said it was really good and I'm going to have one.
Basically I'm only going to have half of it because a whole one would make me feel sleepy, too sleepy.
And I'd rather do it at home.
The whole thing at home.
And that's it. Here it goes.
These aren't Mary's brownies. These are somebody else makes these.
If I get a chance to get one of Mary's brownies, those are the best.
The smoking gives me that right away feeling.
But this actually takes an hour and a half or so to really start to feel it.
I have HIV.
As a matter of fact, the drugs that the surgeons gave me to alleviate the pain before and after surgery are toxic and marijuana isn't.
So I became an addict of prescription drugs. I've really never used marijuana in my life.
I was 220 pounds. I had terrible pain from my surgery. I couldn't even move without pain.
Now I'm 170 pounds. I bike 20 to 30 miles a day in rural Butte County without that much pain.
I am in school and getting a 4.0 GPA and a very hard graduate program.
I'm 73 years old. I've been smoking pot for 60 years. I like to eat it, too.
I started to smoke pocket pot. It was not considered a drug, but rather a nerve.
My mother used to take the stems and make cheese out of it and give it to us on honey for our menstrual pains.
It works.
Some people say that Mexican is harsher to smoke, that the taste is more irritating.
That's really probably the key difference between a green bud and a Mexican pot.
A green bud, usually your high is a little bit longer, whereas a Mexican you need to smoke some more relatively thin to keep your buzz.
A lot of people are not able to smoke it because of their lungs, because of their respiratory systems and hearts, what have you.
Smoking is bad for you.
Eating it really is becoming more and more popular.
More and more creative.
These actually really caught on, these Rice Krispies.
These really caught on. It somehow tastes like a rice crispy.
The taste of marijuana is odd. It doesn't go with everything.
Nothing tops homemade.
This is an ounce of marijuana.
It's the shake and the leaf from the flowers that this is.
This is enough pot. We sell this for $15.
It's enough pot to make a batch of brownies, about 12 brownies.
Homemade is really good because when you first take it out of the oven and it's hot, it is heated.
It's like slightly smoldering there in this little baked form and very, very potent.
So a batch of brownies, when you take those brownies out and you eat one of those brownies, that's like way more than enough.
Mostly if I'm going to eat it, I probably would eat it in a cookie form, usually brownies.
Or sometimes I might make something special like pancakes, but usually I smoke it. I prefer to smoke it.
He doesn't care. He's not picky.
He's not picky. Here, here, here you go. No, no, not this one.
You're hungry, aren't you? Here you go. There's your little...
I know you're hungry.
I'm not hungry. I'm not hungry.
You're hungry, aren't you? Here you go. There's your little...
Oh, you know what we're doing?
Oh, wow. How much of this would you say...
I think effectively you're going to need the whole thing.
How is it like a lot weaker than...
Well, it's two grams in there, so I don't know.
Well, what's in the banana bread? Two grams?
Two and a half.
I must have had the smallest piece. It wasn't even a quarter of a piece.
And I was just like, ooh, and I gave that much to my mom, and she was just like, she passed out.
Well, you know what, I'm probably going to use more than you will.
Yeah, exactly. Do you think maybe half? I just don't, you know, she's like a quarter.
Well, start off with your smallest amount. Give her a quarter of it.
If it doesn't work, then you give her another quarter.
Okay, actually...
I'm on the third floor of the Cannabis Buyers Club here.
Everything here has an additional value.
Everything here is available to the members.
It's calculated by weight, and the same way we buy it.
And as you can see, we have a chart.
How much is everything?
Stems and different grades. It's pretty amazing, isn't it?
It's very hard, as a matter of fact, growing it in marijuana.
Some of these are beautifully tendered and manicured.
You can tell people really put a lot of energy into their gardens.
There really is a little bit less quality, because the flowers crumble and dry differently.
I was diagnosed in April of... well, I was HIV positive in April of 89.
And I was diagnosed with AIDS in May of last year.
And I've gained approximately 15 pounds in six weeks.
So it's very good for me, because I lost almost 20 pounds.
Hey, my name is Beth, and I work here.
I do a variety of things. Greeting people, signing them up.
Giving them hugs, helping them at the counter, showing them around.
I am HIV positive myself.
I love that we're like a big family.
The people that come in here, when they leave, they feel just a little bit more loved and at ease than they did when they came in.
I've seen people improve.
I've seen people come in having to be carried up the stairs.
And I've seen people come in later, these same people come in later,
with just walking up the stairs, with maybe a little bit of help.
I've seen definite improvement. I've experienced this myself.
I've just seen a lot of miracles. A lot of miracles here.
What Marijuana Bus does, they can get 3,100 very sick people searching their parks for marijuana.
They get 3,100 people in their jails.
These people are at the bottom in the winter of their lives.
They deserve every respect society can give them.
I may have to pay a price someday, going to prison for what I'm doing.
But I believe in what I'm doing. The club is open.
One just has to be here one day to know that we are doing the right thing.
That we are helping people in a crisis time in their life.
And you can say this club is about marijuana, but it is really about love and compassion.
The organizations we run out of here would be Americans for Compassionate Use,
Californians for Compassionate Use.
We field calls from all over America.
Every day we get calls from people out there that want information on this topic.
And we've been trying in our own humble little way to influence national policy in this country.
In this area. As best we as a citizen activist group can do.
It was passed by both houses of the California State Legislature by a nice margin.
It was a bipartisan vote. Republicans in both houses passed this bill.
We lobbied for this bill.
I had the honor of going up there with Dennis on numerous occasions
and watching some of the patients also go up there and testify for the bill.
And that was quite a process.
Dennis actually and some of the patients went door to door. Legislature to legislature.
And it was quite a thing to see. Because Dennis is a master.
And this was something we'd step back and generally watch.
He really had to see this to understand the power of speech.
His voice would go up and the infectiousness of his characteristic of what he was explaining would go up.
And these offices aren't that big. Usually you've got another legislator in the back room.
And you've got Dennis talking directly and discursing directly with these legislators
without just pure on its own merits and really swaying them with the conviction of argument.
It was really something to see.
We didn't personally get to see the governor.
And we brought 30 patients by and we presented the governor.
Dennis presented the governor through his office with a major pile of materials in support of the bill.
California is for compassionate uses spearheading a statewide ballot initiative.
The vote will take place in November of 1996.
The voters in the state of California will at that point be able to decide if it's okay for a sick person
to grow a couple of plants of marijuana and use it for medicine with the oversight of their physician.
Hey, hey, DEA, cannabis club is here to stay.
We're coming out here to support the Cannabis Buyers Club.
And I want to tell you a little bit what's been happening at the club.
For over two years we have been operating without police interference.
And we have served 4,000 people.
We're at our door on Wednesday videotaping members following sick people home.
Harassing AIDS patients and cancer patients in the sunset of their lives.
And that's not right. And we're here to tell them to leave us alone.
The people of San Francisco are behind us.
The politicians of San Francisco are behind us.
Mayor George is behind us.
And in fact, the cops have sent us three members who have AIDS to a body part in Dolores Park.
They sent them to the club.
Even the police in San Francisco support us.
They're not going to do it. I'm not going silently into the night.
I will be dragged into that building.
I am fighting for your rights, for any medicine you have in the sunset of your life.
I'm here to protect you. And if they arrest me, they are arresting you.
If they close these clubs, people will surely die.
And they have to know that because we know that.
We've watched our friends and our families puke themselves to death on the modern medical miracles of today's science.
And we know this herb helps them.
And we're not going to let them close the club.
Now I don't know about you, but I'm also not going to let Dennis Perrone go to jail alone.
There's a building with Dennis Perrone's name on it.
We know what they can do with their warrants.
I started selling marijuana in 1970.
And I paid a dear price for it, including getting arrested, jailed, huge jury trials.
In 1977, again, I was arrested for running the Big Top Pot supermarket.
It was kind of the one-stop shopping.
Three scales, no waiting, treated like a king.
And my friend Harvey Milk and I conspired to legalize marijuana on the 1978 ballot by Proposition W.
We won that vote by a landslide.
We lost by 58%.
And Harvey Milk, in a note to my jail cell, told me he was going to see that it was enforced.
And that no city funds were going to be allocated to enforce the marijuana laws.
But that wasn't to be, because Harvey Milk was gunned down by an assassin's bullet.
And it also put a bullet through the marijuana movement's heart.
Because, see, Harvey was our spokesman.
Moving on to my wall.
This is a poster of when I ran for Charter Commissioner.
I ran for Charter Commissioner when I was in jail for selling marijuana for the Pot supermarket.
And Harvey Milk endorsed me for that race.
I, unfortunately, lost.
But not by much.
And not before Dan White denounced me and Harvey Milk in front of the Board of Supervisors.
At the same time, I had Proposition W on the ballot.
I, unfortunately, was in jail for the November election.
So I did see my initiative win by 58%.
And myself come within 1,500 votes of actually winning a seat on the Charter Commissioner.
And now my restaurant, and it was the Island Restaurant.
It was in the heart of the Castro District, in Harvey Milk's headquarters for his 75 and 76 Assembly race.
He used my restaurant as his campaign headquarters for that race.
And he didn't win that race, but that was not to be, because he was meant to win the race in 1977.
When he became the first openly gay elected supervisor, elected official in the whole country.
And his legacy was one of love and community.
He showed the world a lot of hope and compassion.
