When the Vietnam guys started coming back to the VA and they would send them to a psychiatrist
and the psychiatrist would say to you,
well, so you've been playing cowboys and Indians over there some place
and now you want some sort of sympathy or something.
I'll give you a prescription for Valium for two weeks and you'll be all over it.
Guess what happened?
It didn't work. They got them hooked to Valium.
They popped them in the nose for the Valium.
But at the same time, they give the veterans morphine-like drugs,
antidepressant-type drugs, Valium-like drugs,
and it causes the veterans to turn into alcoholics or suicide or some sort of crimes or another.
And the Veterans Administration is literally destroying right now 2.5 million people
who fought in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Two and a half million.
A lot of people.
They're wrecking them, absolutely.
We're talking about medical marijuana.
And PTSD.
And PTSD, absolutely.
And I estimate that there are probably about one million of the veterans of recent wars
who have PTSD and at least half of them above a scale of five,
and those are the ones who are desperately in need of marijuana therapy.
Those are the ones.
The ones who are less than five can probably get by on something less than marijuana.
But marijuana is the best drug we have found so far for the treatment of PTSD.
And within the last month, I just wrote an article that marijuana prevents PTSD suicides.
And I got about a thousand comments on it from all over the country.
I mean, I was in the military, but I didn't see combat.
But I do know as a marijuana user that when I smoke marijuana, I don't have dreams.
And when I quit using marijuana, after a couple of days, I start to have some very vivid dreams.
So obviously the use of marijuana will help.
That is one of the worst symptoms of PTSD.
And you probably wouldn't imagine what the second most important symptom is.
What's that?
Not being able to talk about what was your worst experience.
Tell me about your worst experience.
Bam!
So did you feel that way after World War II?
I know you went through a lot of very traumatic experiences
fighting your way into Germany and meeting up with the Russians there.
My first day, I was committed to combat.
I got in an artillery barrage that just blew the hell out of the little town where I was.
And the next day, they hit me with a mortar barrage.
And when we crossed the Rhine River, I got strafed by German planes.
I got strafed by American planes.
We lost 150 men in less than an hour.
Out of how many? 150 out of...
Out of our battalion.
And a battalion is what? About...
A thousand.
About a thousand. So 150 out of a thousand.
That's a pretty heavy attrition rate.
That is...
In an hour.
We had the...
My battalion, my division, had the worst casualties crossing the Rhine River.
