We've been on the front line for struggling for freedom of the plant and of the consumers
of cannabis since maybe like 17 years now.
And it was nothing there.
We kind of built everything from zero with no money.
This is actually what we did.
And I want to just give a brief little update about what's really going on in South America.
And this cannabis thing, there's big contradictions worldwide about that.
There's also contradictions even here where you guys are ending prohibition, right?
Big contradiction that we can't even smoke in the park, even if it's legal.
So that's one.
So let's go for South America.
Chile this year, they authorized this growing for medical patients for 500 plants.
This was made by a foundation called Daya and the government of one of the counties
of Santiago, Chile.
And after that, they are continuing to discuss the commissions in Congress, the change of
the law, the law number $20.
That's the name of the law.
And they're changing it for authorizing six plants per resident and about half kilo of
dry butts in each property.
That's what they're discussing now, but it's not done yet.
They're trying to finish it, but it's not done.
This is in Chile.
They have a great community, great cannabis community in Chile.
They make like every year they make the Expo Weed, which is a three day event.
And the last one they had around 70,000 personas attending for the three day event.
They also have the Global Marijuana March, which is we have here on my right, Mr. Dana
Beal, which is big responsible for that.
Give a round of applause for him.
Thank you for making the march so successfully.
So this march in Santiago gathered around more than like about 300,000 personas this
year in May.
And in Argentina, the same march gathered around 200,000.
So huge, huge, massive event of people that they absolutely feel better by consuming this
herb, but there's not much culture about it.
I mean, people want freedom, but they don't know the history.
They don't know all the uses of hemp.
So we're in the process of educating all these massive amounts of people that are waiting
for the herb's freedom.
But we're lack of culture yet.
We have to go through a big process of education and that's what we're doing.
That's great.
Well, let me get to Gaston.
I wanted to finish with this.
We've been here in America for a few weeks now and we've been observing what's going
on.
And I want to salute, how do you say, congratulate all the hardworking activists that have made
this ending of prohibition a reality.
But the message is that we're not done yet.
We have to keep on continuing with the rest of America to liberate the rest of America
of free thoughts concerning the plant.
Because what you guys do here is very important for the rest of the world.
Maybe you're not really conscious about that, but whatever happens here has a big impact
worldwide.
So I was here last year when you guys were with Prop 91 and you succeeded.
So I want to congratulate all the hardworking activists and tell them that thank you for
the hard work, but we're not done yet.
We have to continue spreading the word.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
So we don't have, actually there's no hemp in South America, only in Uruguay.
A project of, just a research project.
We used to have hemp, but we don't have it anymore.
And what I want to say about this new era that's coming that I'm seeing here also in
the United States, you know, part of the contradiction is we should take the human barriers that
made these limits of THC and hemp, we should just move them away.
That's part of the task that is already, we have to keep on doing that because those were
part of a different time, a time of provision.
Now it's a different time and we should go forward in taking those artificial barriers
and leave the plant grow as it is naturally and take all the benefits of it.
Oh, that's well said.
Yeah, well, I'm, you know, I represent, I've been representing the growers a lot because
we have a home grow movement.
But you know, what I want to say is that that's not really important because that's not safe
access for all of us.
We got to go forward in trying to find a different way of getting access besides the home grow.
I think you guys are a big example for the rest of the world.
I think many of us are going to be inspired by Oregon and by the United States in general,
but Oregon, I think the Oregon law is really good and you guys have been following the
information, right?
All the money has been...
That's right.
