I had a friend of mine that's a hospital patient, I mean for real, and her doctor told her that
if she continued to use medical marijuana, he wasn't going to be able to give her prescription
painkillers.
So she's going to have to make a choice.
And she asked me, this is before Measure 91 passed, she asked me, she said, well, will
Measure 91 help in my situation if it passes?
And I said, no, it won't.
It'll help in the long run, but it won't help in the short run, because it won't change
a thing as far as you're concerned.
And when I left, she had a tear, I mean this is not exaggerating, she had a tear going
on her cheek when I left.
I mean it was just a really tragic.
So these are the kind of things that keep me going, you know, as an activist.
It's been almost 20 years.
John's got me started, his fault.
But almost 20 years ago, and I miss John by the way for many reasons.
One thing was I would ask John when was that, and he would tell me the date and how many
years ago it was.
I mean he was up on numbers, and you know, I don't remember.
But anyway, the Oregon legislature, in my opinion, has done a horrible job of implementing
the Oregon Medical Marijuana Program since it began.
Started out by having an incredible director, and then didn't give her what she needed to
do the job, and then fired her because she wasn't doing the job.
And that was just the beginning.
They stole money from the patients, supposedly it was X amount of dollars, divided by how
many patients and blah blah blah, and it's supposed to work out.
Well, the state is making money on the Oregon Medical Marijuana Program, and wants more
including a $250 fee for each grower.
I mean, come on, this is ridiculous.
We've got to fight.
So anyway, I've got to get out of here.
I appreciate you coming.
I really appreciate everybody that showed up.
We've got to do more of this, because they've got to see the numbers.
It makes a difference.
It's just like court support.
It makes a difference.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Thanks.
