My name is Andrea Herman and I've come to Oregon State University as a co-lecturer for WSE 266
Ecampus course on industrial hemp underneath the College of Forestry's Renewable Materials section.
Over the last couple of days I've learned that here in Oregon there are a lot of press board
factories and of course since you have ample amounts of wood here but we're also focusing
on how we can change the dynamics of how we're using those wood products and looking at what
other products we can incorporate in. Also I've learned that there's been a decline in the need
for the grass seed production here so that opens up acreage for hemp cultivation. We also have
companies here that are already milling products into powders and food grade products so that's
something that Oregon can readily pick up and include in their production and market zone.
I think here in Oregon particularly you know you want to call up Senator Wyden in
Merkley's office and tell him thank you. Let him know that you're a constituent and that you care
about this issue and let him know if you do have any concerns about industrial hemp in your area
and beyond that if you have family and it's in any other state call them talk with them start
talking about this at lunch at the supper table make that communication flow start to open up
and I think we're never going to have that federal bill passed unless people voice their opinion.
So like I say if your if your senator is already a sponsor call them and say thank you if they're
not a sponsor call them and let them know and don't just call once call more than once.
Have your your family your colleagues your husband your kids make the phone call the more phone calls
we make the different the better and the more difference it will end up making in the long run.
Don't give up. Yeah don't give up I think you know I mean for me this is something that
you know was a dream for me. I felt passion and I had a lot of desire to see where hemp was going
to go. It became a passion it became my dream it became a goal internally and externally
and fortunately enough I stuck with it and and that's what's led me down this path. So I hope
that other people will be able to follow in in my path and through this course being offered at OSU
it's really going to open the opportunity for people to really follow their dream academia wise
and then be producing professionals coming out of the universities that are ready to go into the
hemp marketplace and and provide background and institutional knowledge that otherwise we
don't have right now in the sector.
