Alcohol Awareness Month is an opportune time to be talking about the relative harms of
alcohol and marijuana.
This billboard isn't simply saying go ahead and choose one or the other.
It's saying don't just drink.
Think about the circumstances.
Think about what you're consuming.
If you're enjoying a glass of beer, if you're enjoying a glass of wine, a great Oregon IPA,
if you're enjoying a great Oregon Pinot Noir, you know, think about how adults who choose
to use marijuana for many of the same reasons, to relax, to socialize with friends, to enjoy
themselves, to be responsible, but to consume responsibly in that manner.
Think about what message we're sending to those adults and what message we're sending
to future generations when we tell people we're going to punish them for making a choice
that is safer than alcohol and we are going to encourage them to consume a substance that's
more dangerous.
If you are in a situation where you can choose to consume alcohol or you can choose to consume
marijuana, society will tell you it's better that you choose alcohol, even if it's bad
for you, even if it makes you violent, even if you're breaking the law in some cases,
underage drinking.
So we, as a society, have been encouraging people to consume alcohol.
And what we are saying in Oregon is we're not jeopardizing and we're not threatening
the stability of Oregon's beer and wine industry.
They're a combined $3 billion a year industry.
They're going to be fine.
What we're saying is for adults who choose to consume marijuana because it's safer for
them and because they prefer marijuana over alcohol, they shouldn't be criminalized.
They shouldn't be ostracized.
They shouldn't be stigmatized.
We should be treating them with respect and we should be letting them make that safer
choice.
What we're saying is we have established a way to regulate alcohol in this economy and
we celebrate alcohol as a society.
If we're going to do that knowing the harms that alcohol presents, let's at least not
punish people who want to make a safer choice.
Are you worried that the billboard might discourage people from going over to your festival and
drinking some beer or wine?
Not in the least.
I'm looking forward to those people coming over and we're looking forward to this moving
forward and hopefully it will get legalized at some point.
It brings in a lot of tourist dollars and we are a tourist industry.
When we put on this festival we get people from all around the world.
We'd like to see more people show up and enjoy our fine products and if this is going to
be one of them, all the better.
Do you think marijuana is safer than beer and wine?
It is safer than beer and wine.
Why are you so certain?
Well I've been using it for 44 years so I have at least a little bit of background on
it and I feel it's extremely safe for people.
It's actually not just safe, it's medicine.
Do you have a medical marijuana card?
I do have a medical marijuana card.
And I wish this would progress sooner.
I'm glad that Washington and Colorado have taken the lead on this.
Oregon should be right there with it.
And if we could move it along quicker, next year Easter is on 420.
Well, there you go.
What about moms and dads who are watching who might have teenagers at home who are impressionable
and think this sends the wrong message to them?
That is a discussion they will have to have with their kids.
