All our supply chains are certified organic and fair trade.
We super-fed our soaps with hemp seed oil.
Hemp seed imparts a real smoothness to the lather,
makes it less drying.
We've been fighting since 2001
to re-commercialize industrial hemp farming
in the United States.
It's just incredible that we can't grow
non-drug industrial hemp in this country.
This country is the largest consumer market
for hemp seed and fiber products.
And we continue to hand the largest market
for industrial hemp to the Canadians,
to the Chinese, to the Europeans.
It's a joke.
I mean, we have a president who alleges
that he bases his policy on science and reason,
unlike his predecessor.
But we have the same drug warriors driving policy
under this administration as the previous,
as every other administration.
And it's just incredibly disappointing.
Our family sponsored and successfully fought off
the DEA's attempt to shut off the imports of hemp seed oil
10 years ago.
After Jack Harrah's stroke in 2010,
me and some comrades dug up the DEA's lawn
in Washington, D.C. and planted hemp seeds.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And you can look at that online just recently.
Here we are, the fourth year of Obama's term,
still no hemp.
I locked myself in a steel cage in front of the White House
and harvested 12 hemp plants.
Spent three hours haranguing the president,
about 30 cops and a huge crowd of people
about how ridiculous it is that our government
is making my family send over $100,000 every year
to Canadians in the middle of a recession.
How retarded is it that we are still not
decommercializing industrial hemp?
Our family also, we don't just concentrate on hemp.
We give a lot of money to Americans for Safe Access,
the primary group advocating for medical marijuana.
We just gave them $100,000.
We've been supporting them from the beginning.
We just dropped $50,000 on the Colorado legalization effort
and on the Washington effort.
We believe it's an earthquake.
If we can get the states to go,
if we can get Colorado and Washington
to end cannabis prohibitions, it'll be huge.
I realize there's controversy here about it,
but the larger picture is don't let the perfect
be the enemy of the good.
It'll be just such an earthquake heard around the world.
We also just gave $100,000 to MAPS,
Multidisciplinary Association of Psychedelic Studies,
an amazing group working to integrate psychedelics,
MDMA, LSD, back into society in a responsible way.
Myself personally and a lot of people here
have found cannabis and psychedelics
to be huge allies in our paths
to help us be more compassionate and conscious.
It's a huge goal of Dr. Bronner's to, yeah, right on.
Our end game is we want in four years time
put another zero on those contributions.
We're growing rapidly.
We're a $5 million company.
10 years ago, we're 50 now.
We cap all executive compensation, five to one.
We don't make any more money.
It just goes back into movement.
And so thank you very much.
And-
All in God's faith, let's go!
Yeah, that's right.
What?
Yeah, all in God's faith.
Here we go.
