20 years old, happy birthday, Vivian, the entire multi-hundred person crew has done
one of the most amazing jobs in the world at focusing attention on a problem.
Vivian, hey how you doing?
Vivian is keen to say that this is a critical mess and we've reached a critical mass.
We reach a critical mass here every year in the hundreds of thousands of people.
Beyond coming to the park, join a marijuana law reform organization.
It does not matter which one you join, just get involved, register to vote, donate to
this great organization, the Seattle Hemp Fest.
For the next year, 2012 will be the busiest year for marijuana law reform and cannabis
consumers in every single one of our lives.
Whether you're 75 or 18 years old, 2012 will be the busiest political year.
California, Oregon, Washington State, Colorado will all have legalization ballots.
The state of Massachusetts will have a medical marijuana initiative.
If any one of these states passes a legalization initiative, that will be the chink in the
armor.
That will be the rocket ride to the Supreme Court where a state, not activists, not patients,
not organizations, but a state will be in such conflict with federal law that the Supreme
Court must rule on whether or not a state can legalize marijuana.
And we are on the precipice.
55 percent, 55 percent of Americans want marijuana legalized.
Demographers believe that by 2020, 60 percent of Americans, whether you're a conservative
or you're a liberal, you will want marijuana legalized.
So this is a fait accompli.
It's not a matter of if or how.
It is a matter of when marijuana will be legalized.
That is not in doubt.
California's Proposition 19 last year only lost by three percentage points.
Three percentage points.
A state like California, which is a nation unto itself with one out of eight Americans
living there, came within three percentage points of legalizing marijuana.
We all have a great opportunity on October, October 2nd.
Put this on your little iPhones and your Andro phones right now.
October 2nd is the 74th anniversary of this terrible prohibition on marijuana beginning.
We have a blessed opportunity on that Sunday night.
Normal is calling for all of us to have normal, hot parlor parties on that night, not only
to celebrate the destruction of this stupid prohibition, but public broadcast will start
a five part series that night on the alcohol prohibition, a Ken Burns series on the absurdity
of alcohol prohibition.
So at your normal pot parlor party, the whole idea is to watch this great series on how
alcohol prohibition that only lasted a dozen years.
What a stupid policy, what a failed social experiment it was.
And here we are all these years later, 74 years into marijuana prohibition.
So it's self evident.
Freedom is not mana from heaven.
If you want to be free, work for it.
Thank you.
