Hi everybody, friends. It's really great to be here. I'm Bonnie King with SalemNews.com.
I know I'm kind of preaching to the choir, but I just wanted to say a couple of things.
I was born and raised here in Oregon like so many of you people were too. I was the daughter of
commercial beekeepers, some real salt of the earth kind of folks, and they believed in America and
they believed in the state of Oregon. These are people that really wanted us to live the life of
liberty and happiness, all of us, sick, old, poor, rich, no matter. And so when I became a journalist,
being able to inform people and tell them things that they would not have already known,
to make them informed decision makers, to give them the knowledge that they needed to do,
to be able to move forward in their own lives is terribly important to me. And then one of the
friends that you all have known for so many years, Dr. Phil Levesque, he was a real warrior for truth,
wasn't he? Dr. Levesque fought for the OMMP in the 90s along with Paul Stanford, Paul Loney, so many of you
others. And he never, he was a do or die kind of guy. And I know absolutely if he was standing
here right now, he would say he is mad as hell that they are doing this to our program. So the OMMP
as it stands is a healthy, happy, successful program. Just like Scott said, it's an example for
others all over the United States, which means all over the world. This isn't something that needed to
be messed with. When Measure 91 was passed in good faith by Oregon voters, they were obviously
boondoggled. They were obviously, you know, somebody somewhere had a strategy in mind because this isn't
what we voted for. Three times in that bill were protected. Three times it says that this is not
going to affect the medical marijuana program. And here we are after all this time fighting for OMMP
again. It's absolutely unconscionable that the lawmakers of our state would try to overrule the
citizens of this state when we know what is good for us. Take care of the sick and dying people of
this state. Why aren't they the priority? That's what this is for. We are not just a road map for
recreation. That is not why this program began. That is not why we fought so hard. That is not
why people served time in prison and have died before this happened. We need to protect OMMP.
And you know, people that have come before me have said this too, but you know, you got to stand for
something or you'll stand for anything. So stand for what's right, you guys. Stand for what we voted
for. Stand for the OMMP and stand for Oregon.
