We have another film clip we're going to run right now. This is an interview I did with the driver of the hemp car
Greg Kyler he came through here about three years ago. The hemp car was running on a hundred percent hemp seed oil
There was no petroleum in the gas tank. No petroleum oil
Lubricating the engine it was a hundred percent hemp driven car
And that's what we need to go back to in the future and we'll be talking a bit more about that in just a moment
Hope you enjoy this film clip
So how did you come to think of this the hemp car idea?
And this this national tour you're doing
well, I was I wanted to come out to the west coast in some kind of environmental fashion and
I've been researching fuels for a while and never really cared about him came across
hemp oil of transportation fuel and
Put two and two together, you know, when was that? When did you first back in October of last year October last year right around there and
Started asking, you know, how come this would have been done and took a look into the plant a little more
Still falls under the DEA ban so put two or two together and decided that I had to do it with him oil
And so you're getting hemp oil from Ohio
Yeah, it's originated from China and some from Canada and then it's some of it comes into Ohio where it's made into biodiesel
The Don was chapter at the Ohio
And mr. Todd squaring chin of Apple Energy who processed the oil for us in the biodiesel. Uh-huh
What can you tell us about the car? It's just normal car without completely unmodified
Mercedes diesel 1983 turbo diesel
Any diesel engine can ride burn any vegetable oil, but you'll get a longer engine life turning into biodiesel
What about your tour you started where in DC July 4th big rally they have there every fourth of July that the rally and
Took off from there on July 4th a we covered the let's see today's August 21st or 22nd. Yeah
That's about seven weeks we've been on the road and covered at
6,400 miles
6,400 miles and how many cities are you going to in total?
I think we're going to about 50 cities in how many days is that I'd send about a little over 90 days
50 cities in 90 days. That's ambitious. Yeah, and that's a hundred percent hemp fuel
Yep
And what kind of mileage are you getting?
27 miles to gallon just like the car came from the factory floor and so it's being shipped to you along the yeah
We have 12 like drop points and we have our fuel ship ahead and we pick up as much as we can carry
Okay, that was Grant Kriger with the hemp car and that was run on a hundred percent hemp seed oil now
We're talking, you know, the price of oil has gone through the roof lately
Demand in the United States continues to grow slowly
But the demand in India the demand in China is doubling every year
So they're saying by the end of the year
That the price of oil is going to be $100 a barrel
Well hemp seed oil can compete at those prices and hemp is actually three times more productive than any other seed oil crop
So the price of biodiesel come way down when we can grow moderately high THC
plants hemp plants for
Biodiesel and that's what our political committee is going to start concentrating on a hemp for biodiesel
Initiative so we'll be talking more about that in the weeks to come
