Okay listen, cannabis is just the tip of the iceberg people. Okay it's part of the
great hoodwink of what they've done. Okay stoners domesticated the horse, invented
the wheel, stoners created blues jazz rock and roll out of Congo Square,
stoners created hip-hop, stoners created the personal computer. Okay stoners
created the first secular music. All right stoners own magic and religion but
we've been taken away from that history. Okay all religions came from cannabis
and somehow they've disappeared the fact that the burning bush which gave Moses
the inspiration was cannabis. What else would it be? Soma of the Rig Veda, the
oldest living religious document, the foundation of Hinduism and Buddhism is
cannabis. Ma is cannabis in Chinese and that's where we get Magi, magic, shaman.
Okay so we rule magic, the cannabis people of the universe. Okay so let's
take back the magic man. All right so I got my own little project now it's
called the Pot Illuminati. We're stealing the magic of the evil Illuminati and
we're bending it to our will and we just established a chapter here in Portland.
These candles will be used by the Portland chapter of the Pot Illuminati.
This is part of the sophisticated magic that we've manifested in the 20 years I
ran the Cannabis Cup. So we're bringing the crew that did the ceremonies at the
Cannabis Cup and we're coming here next year and we're bringing the founding
fathers of the Pot Illuminati Grandmaster Kaz and Chief Rocker Busy Bee.
Okay these figures are so important because they created the culture and got
no big money out of it. So they're very magical creatures. I was the first
journalist to go to the South Bronx and interview all of the founding fathers of
hip-hop. I got a book here, the complete history of the first generation. Is
anybody into hip-hop? Anybody like to copy this book? Okay did you know Abraham
Lincoln was killed by his own party because he was going to bring the
southern congressman back into Congress. The radical Republicans were about to
lose control of Congress so through their double agents they sent a
Confederate spy John Wilkes Booth to kill and they left the president
unprotected but they had to kill John Wilkes Booth. They couldn't let him be
taken just like they couldn't let Oswald be taken. Anybody want to know the real
history what really happened in the Civil War? Take that. All right this is my
adventure through magic. I started I came through experimental theater, living
theater. I studied with Julian Beck, Judith Molina, Jasper Grutfeld, the
provost in Amsterdam. I rode with the Merry Pranksters. I began my career as a
counterculture shaman in magic in 1967 and have continued and created the
Cannabis Cup and have done things on a massive scale and this is the story of
what I learned in that process. Anybody want a copy of this book? Okay do you
want to know what the real story is? Who runs the banks? What's the real story
behind the Wizard of Oz? What are these secret societies? What is the Illuminati?
The Illuminati is just a chapter of Freemasonry. Freemasonry is the shadow
that they created on the other side of fundamentalist religion. So it's just
like Christianity only it's you know the same thing only it's a different kind of
a hoodwink. Okay they aren't telling you the truth about magic and religion.
They're hoodwinking you. So if you want to know the real story what's going on
with secret societies? Who killed JFK? What does the Wizard of Oz really mean?
What is the Golden Road? Anybody interested in this book? Okay I only have
one fiction collection it's all about growing up in the late 60s and what we
went through and I like to give to this guy because he shared that book with
that bro. So thank you brother. All right listen the pot Illuminati only has one
rule we believe in no dogmas. We invite all cultures. We want the most beautiful
rainbow spectrum of people, sexualities, everything you know. We want it all to be
a part of our ceremony so we invite everybody. That's why there's seven
candles of the rainbow. That's why there's seven different magic sigils on
the candles. So we encourage you but there's one rule. Don't hurt anybody.
As long as you don't hurt anybody you can do whatever you want in our culture.
Okay and we respect all the religions, all the pagan religions, all the
Freemasonry. We'll use their ceremonies and rituals because all these rituals of
our ancestors resonate with us. They're important. Let's hang on to the rituals
and ditch the dogma. Okay so we'll see you next year with the pot Illuminati
and we'll be rocking this thing with 40,000 people on this hill okay because
we're going to bring magic and ceremony to Hemstock. Thank you. See you next year.
