Welcome everybody to the Ready, Set, Grow breakout session here.
It gives me great pleasure to put this thing together.
I don't think even just a couple of years ago this would even be a possibility.
To have people speaking about growing for patients, the right ways to do it, the safest ways to do it,
and people that are willing to come out and talk about that,
and how they're able to do that legally and the proper way.
So without further ado, let me introduce the panel here.
Directly to my left, Ms. Jill from TGA Genetics, TGA Seeds, is Team Green Avenger.
A combination of Subcool and Ms. Jill, and Dioxide, a bunch of other guys and gals that are helping out for the medical patients.
They're seed breeders, they're growers, and they really do it the right way.
They're responsible for some really amazing strains like Vortex, Jilly Bean, Jack the Ripper, Danny Boy, and the list really goes on and on.
They're even in my C-Bank Hall of Fame, which I put together.
It's really quite an honor that they're here, and I just want to introduce them.
Subcool is also the author of Dank, which is an amazing book.
Inside the mind of a breeder and what choices they make to create the strains that they make.
Beautiful pictures as well.
We've got Rafael Martinez, Jr., who is a patient caregiver for the state of Oregon,
and a major player with Oregon Normal, and a great dude.
I'm psyched he's here.
That's Rafael, our junior.
And then Igor Racuz, an old friend of mine.
He's taking the place of Kyle Cushman, who actually sadly could not make it up here for this seminar, but he is taking the place.
He's with Safe Harbor of Maine, which is one of the first dispensaries on the East Coast in Maine.
They only allowed eight dispensaries for the whole state, and I think it's one per resident.
No, it's one per county.
It's one per county, and they already have the caregivers.
They've had the medical law since 99.
They have a grow-your-own and the caregiver system, and now they're going to have dispensaries.
Even some of them, I think, will be able to deliver the medicine to patients in their homes, which is really exciting for us on the East Coast.
Maine is really leading the way.
It's like the California of our side of the country.
So that's Igor.
And to his left, Jeremy Miller.
Jeremy is not only the founder of Olympia Hemfest in Washington.
He's also a great grower and the breeder of Seeds of Truth, which is his medical marijuana seed outfit.
I've never been to Olympia Hemfest, but I hear it's a great time, and I'm looking forward to hopefully coming to this next year.
So welcome, Jeremy.
Let's get right to it.
We only have a little under a couple hours or whatever, so I want to get as much as we can out of everybody.
So I guess we'll start at the beginning.
Germinating seeds is really how you embark upon this pursuit because you can always buy cones from the dispensary, and that's a good way also to get started sometimes.
But you can come with a lot of problems, and it depends on who you get them from.
A lot of them can be susceptible to powdery mildew or already have pests on them.
A lot of times they don't have the vigor that you get when you pump seeds and that.
So I think I'm going to talk to Sub Cole right now.
Let him tell us about germinating seeds.
Thank you, Danny.
There's many ways to start seeds.
We see a lot of seeds start.
We have 20 strains.
We see everything you can possibly see with seeds.
The first thing I would say is that people try to do too much to them.
My favorite picture is we sort seeds out back.
Underneath my barbecue grill, when it's 40 degrees and granite, seeds will germinate.
So it doesn't take anything to germinate seeds.
A lot of times people will send me an email that says, hey, I got your seeds.
They didn't germinate.
I put them on a heat mat.
I used this and that, three drops of this.
Nature didn't really need all that.
We are big fans of a product called Rapid Rooters.
I don't know what company makes them.
They're a small cord plug.
We flip them upside down.
We stick the seed in, and they germinate.
That's really what it's about.
I really try to suggest that people not use a lot of chemicals and products in order to aid germination.
It simply is not required.
That's really how I germinate seeds and have for a long time.
One more small point.
A lot of people like to put them in paper towels, plastic bags, ziplock bags.
That's fine.
But if you don't have a light touch as you're transferring the seeds from the plastic bag and the paper towel,
you can tear the seeds up.
You can smash them, nick them with your tweezers.
So I don't think that's always the best way if you're a big clumsy guy like me and your hands aren't delicate.
Don't try to start moving seeds around while you've got resin all over the stuff because you'll kill your seeds.
All right.
And Rafael, do you have any seed germination tips or anything?
I kind of have the same theory as Seb.
I don't really believe in using a lot of chemicals when you do it on the whole clumsy hands.
I still use the seed bag and the paper towel.
But I'm old school.
The guy I learned from is older than dirt.
He's taught me quite a few things that I've learned.
He's the seed person with the paper towel.
Paper towel.
But no water.
That's the most common way.
That's pretty much me.
All right.
And Seb, what's the importance of growing from seeds?
And explain what a mother plant is to people too.
I mean you don't always have to grow from a seed only to just flower that plant and move on.
You can keep those genetics.
I try to go fast because I'm rambling.
I try to stick to one year.
I covered this down in Colorado.
Everybody's very interested in it.
The problem with clones that are threefold.
Number one is mislabeling.
I love it when someone walks up and hands me a bud and tells me it's California orange.
I've been growing California orange for three decades and I know what it tastes like.
The clones are very mislabeled and that can be a problem if you're trying to make tinctures or medicines.
Number two is mildew.
You cannot see mildew.
My partner out there just got a bunch of nice clones.
Hell OG cut.
These are cuts that people drool and salivate over.
And what happened was even with good treatment and amazing methodology,
he got a little spot of powdery mildew and then he spent the next six months getting rid of it.
So if you take clones in thinking that you're going to save time,
it's a very good possibility that you're going to bring something into your grow room.
The main thing that we all are scared of, mites.
Mites are part of growing cannabis indoors and out.
If you have a good climate in your grow room, keep it 74 degrees all the time,
don't let your temperature swing, you can keep the mites down.
But if you bring say Romulan cutting into your house a year ago because it is an amazing strain
and you really needed it to make a strain and then you battle mites for a fucking year,
that's what you're opening yourself up to.
When you start with seed, you don't have to worry about mites or mildew or mold coming into your grow room.
As a grower from a 10-pack of good seeds, you should be able to select three to four nice females,
discarding the females that are not nice or not what you want,
and select a mother plant that you want.
Now this is how we do it quickly.
We grow the plant at day 45, we know what the sex of the plant is,
she takes clones, she has nice delicate hands,
then we bud the plant out, we smoke the plant, we share the plant with our patients.
We're very lucky here in Oregon that we just give our pot to our patients, we don't charge for it.
So we give the pot away to everybody, we don't care.
Who can find a seed that's over-seeded?
There's only eight joints in the ashtray, they're not enough people smoking them,
because they're not used to being here in Oregon I don't guess.
But okay, so then we bud these plants out.
She uses numbers, I like to use cool names.
This is Shaggy, this is one of our new space queens,
she squints, oh, I'm sorry.
So this is on the cover of a magazine right now.
We planted five seeds, one of the seeds in hermaphrodite, right?
In five weeks it was easy to get out of there.
People don't want to talk about this, but the dominant state of cannabis is hermaphrodite.
So as a grower you just got to get rid of that.
Then we had two other ones, one was cheese dominant, one was purple dominant.
We selected this vino, which I named Shaggy because I like cartoons.
And it's freaking awesome, I mean it tastes like grapes,
and it tastes like cheese, and it yielded three and a half ounces from dirt,
from one single seed grown in soil.
And this is a special phenotype that we won't get rid of, right?
It's got an amazing high, and we found this.
You can't do that if you don't start the seeds though.
What I've done my entire life, and I urge you to do this if you guys are out there growing medicinal,
start seeds, man, it's like a box of Cracker Jacks.
And I'm a seed guy, right?
But I'm not saying buy my seeds, okay?
There's plenty of breeders out there, right?
I mean I regrow other people's seeds all the time looking for something.
I grew D.J. Short's blueberry, I didn't find what I wanted.
I grew this kid from the UK's seeds called Pine Queen, this kid's name is Sonic.
Something called Chimelon, I'm something else.
Oh my God, it's like the third best pot I've smoked in my life.
And so you can't find these things if you don't start the seeds.
I'm sorry, but so long.
Absolutely, and from those seeds you can get a good mother plant,
and from the mother plant you can get an infinite amount of clones.
I mean I wouldn't call it infinite, but.
I'd like to cover one more small thing here.
A lot of people don't understand cloning, and I really feel it important to address this.
You don't have to keep a mother plant.
And here in Oregon where we can grow six plants for each one of our patients,
I can't have a room full of five foot pot plants.
I just can't.
We take clones just before we bud.
So I have 12 strings in my grow room, I take 24 clones.
They're pretty nice clones, they're roosting fast as we keep.
Jack's Cleaner, I don't know how many people have heard of Jack's Cleaner,
it's the father of Jack the Ripper.
And it's been cloned for two decades.
I mean I've been in prison, so while I was in prison, other people kept cloning it,
and it came back to me.
The plant is exactly the same, and this is what I want to explain.
I think the word clone is wrong.
It's not, we're not making a copy of something.
It is the plant.
We're taking a living piece of the plant, a living piece of DNA,
and then it's just growing again.
I'm not going to stop calling them clones, but you're not replicating something.
So the theory of copy versus a copy versus a copy, it's false.
You want healthy growth, you want really healthy growth, really good point,
you can use a sick clone.
But I would imagine most of us growing here are not using big motherwood, right?
Well, yeah, no, it's big.
And how about Jeremy, why don't you tell us a little bit about the situation in Washington,
and also if you have any tips on germinating seeds, cloning, or mother plants.
I'm very simplistic in the way I germinate seeds.
I think the way that Subcool said was very adequate.
You definitely, seeds have a vigor that clones don't have.
So, I mean, if you're starting from seed, they take right off really vigorously.
So if you're starting in water, a rapid grower like Subkin suggested,
the seed doesn't just sprout right out.
They just take off very vigorously because the seeds have just a vigorous hybrid growth
that the clones don't.
After a certain time, they start to lose a little bit.
They're still great plants, but you won't see them quite as vigorous as the seed strings, in my opinion.
Washington State itself is a little bit different.
It's unique.
We're able to grow 15 plants.
We're only able to care give for one patient.
The problem that we see with that is, in Washington State, possession is not intensive at all.
So if I'm care giving for another patient, then technically I'm in possession of 30 plants.
So even though the law allows me to grow for another patient, I still am fighting it in court.
I have to prove that I wasn't technically in possession.
I was growing these for somebody else, and I wasn't consuming that medicine on my own behalf.
So it's kind of strange dynamics.
They're working on a dispensary law.
Next year, Senator Colewell is working on a dispensary law in Washington State.
There's a lot of aspects to this proposed legislation that really worry me.
I'm asking a lot of people to kind of take a look at what's going on.
This is our chance to really define what's going to happen here in the future in Washington.
I think that the legislators don't take into account what the stakeholders and the patients really feel a lot of times.
They just make time for the big lobbyists or the people that have money.
I think right in the next few years, we're going to see a lot of interesting dynamics in Washington State for sure.
Yeah, it sounds like it's turning around very quickly.
People are getting more involved.
Yeah, there's a lot of paper co-ops that are operating in Washington State.
There's a lot that's popping up in Seattle, the Spokane area.
I actually run one in Tacoma area called Sacred Plant Medicine.
That's where we do all the breeding and everything for seeds of true genetics.
Cool.
Now, what about – we were talking about the importance of seeds and vigor.
What about germination?
What's – any tips that you might have on that?
I'm a very simplistic germinator, too.
I'll go either with a paper towel, old-school style, or I'll start writing the records.
There's definitely two ways that I'll do it.
Mostly, I'll do it the old-school paper towel way because half the time I don't have the records and I write the whole time.
What about cloning? Do you do a lot of cloning or most of the time?
We do do a lot of cloning of the strains that we have to keep them perpetuated.
But we definitely love these seeds.
They have a vigor that clones just don't have.
They come like a subset disease for you.
All right.
Well, as subset also, Jill takes the clones for them or the cuttings, rooted cuttings, however you would want to refer.
Maybe you can give us a couple of just step-by-step of how you go about creating clones.
Well, it's important that we start out with clean utensils.
We have sharp razor blades and scissors to take the cuttings.
And we take them at a 45-degree angle.
Check.
And we dip these in rooting hormone.
You can use gel, powder, or liquid.
And we prefer the liquid.
And I like to take the soft cuttings and usually off towards the bottom.
They need to be healthy, nice green coloring.
And I like to make sure that there is a root bump that will be going into the cube so that I feel that that's a better way to root the plant.
And we like to put those immediately under fluorescent lights.
We put them in – we use a shoebox, plastic shoebox.
You can buy it at the Dollar Tree.
And we take two sides and we invert them.
We take the lids off and throw them away.
And we just take two big sides and turn them inside out together.
And we stick them under the light.
We keep the clones very damp.
We keep them warm.
We don't want them to get too hot.
We keep them about 78 degrees is a good temperature.
And in about three to seven days, we have roots.
Nice.
Yeah, that's great.
The importance being on the humidity and the warmth.
And consistency.
And consistency.
But if you need to, if it's cold and you're doing a cloning, get a cheap little heat mat that you plug in and put that underneath the tray.
It's really important that the roots in that area and the water that they sit in or whatever it is never get too cold.
This is going to sound silly, okay, but I answer a lot of questions.
The main thing that I ask everybody that have a problem with clones is do you own a thermometer?
And you know, I say, what's the temperature?
Oh, it's a foul.
No, you have to have a thermometer.
A phalangometer is not a way to tell the temperature.
And it sounds silly telling you guys this, but I can't tell you the number of people that have had problems for months cloning.
I'm trying to coach them through it.
They go to Radio Shack and all of a sudden they've got clones.
So you've got to have a thermometer and a humidistat to find out what the temperature in the humidistat is.
Don't just say, well, they're kind of warm.
That's not going to work.
All right, Igor, you got any cloning tips?
Well, the rapid rooter system.
Rapid rooter.
Everybody seems to be a fan of that.
Do you pre-moisten them?
I like them because it's pollinated with stuff that's going to hurt your plant.
That's not being…
Yeah, can I switch to the mic?
He said no.
There you go.
So, yeah, what I said was the sponges are inoculated with bacteria.
They actually also have a little bit of a mineral charge, too, to help the plant move forward.
There's other products on the market as well, such as Easy Roots, that cost a little bit less and it's really similar.
It's also pH-buffed, so if your nutrient solution isn't exactly right on, it'll balance itself out.
You could also make sure that none of the – well, that the medium you can't oversaturate.
You could pour tons of water on it and if the surrounding surface will float, it'll lift itself up off the water and balance itself out.
I would do a commercial for rapid rooters.
They can't flop.
They're so much nicer than anything we ever had.
And we would also probably all agree to try to discourage the use of rockwool in that process.
I mean, plants can root well in rockwool because it's able to hold air and allow oxygen to the roots and stuff, but it's a really kind of a toxic product.
Not kind of, but it's a toxic product.
It's not good for you to be around it.
It's not good for you to throw it out.
So rapid rooters or easy roots or any kind of organic alternative you can find are much better.
And the truth is you can just get the little cups and fill them with soil and keep it moist and warm and the plant will root in that as well.
The moisture level and the warm temperature are what's important to get the roots to pop.
And once they pop, now you're in the vegetative stage.
