We're going to do a little show and tell now as we often do.
Little sharing as they call it these days.
I brought this on last week but I just liked it so much I thought I'd bring it back.
How close can you come in here?
This is Johnson and Johnson.
Little closer.
Closer still.
Oh that's getting better.
See Johnson and Johnson.
Cannabis Indica and Salicic Acid.
Aspirin and Cannabis.
This is a big tarp.
It was used for psoriasis or warts or corns.
It was just a very valuable aid for a wide assortment of skin diseases.
And Johnson and Johnson is a trusted name that we let our, I think my kids still use
Johnson Baby Shampoo.
I know we used the baby oil in earlier years.
Right next door to it, this is from England and from Boots Pharmacy.
Boots Pharmacies are big in England.
And these are corn strap rings.
That's cannabis and aspirin again.
It says apply this to your corns and leave it on there overnight and then put a little
warm water on and your corn will come right off.
So that's a nifty thing.
Next door, Dr. Bronner's Pure Castile Hemp Peppermint Soap.
This is really good stuff.
This is a refill bottle.
I use this at home and I'm about halfway down.
I refill my smaller bottles with this big jumbo bottle.
Next door we have Hulled Hemp Nuts.
These taste like cashews and walnuts.
Kind of a very rich, nutty, nutritious food that's high in the essential fatty acids,
omega-3, 6 and 9.
Next to it we have hemp flour.
This is hemp seed that's had the oil pressed out and left over is a high protein hemp flour
to make hemp burgers or hemp protein shakes.
I take about 7 or 8 of these every day.
This is cold pressed hemp seed oil.
Here it is next door in a big bottle.
I just can't eat it raw.
I like it better in the capsules myself.
I take it in the capsules.
You can use it in salads.
You can use it in all kinds of different things.
Anytime you're using olive oil or anything else.
Last but not least, distributed right here in Portland by Living Harvest.
We have Living Harvest Chocolate Hemp Milk.
It comes in vanilla and unflavored.
So you can get hemp milk.
It's a lot more nutritious than soy milk.
That's the end of our show and tell for this evening.
