Good afternoon and thank you everyone for coming out. This is a very important
beginning of a session for us. It's all important that we all be involved.
My name is Mike Mullins and I'm with Stony Girl Gardens, a Stony-only dispensary,
and we have our Portland Amsterdam University.
But today I'm not here to talk about my businesses. I'm not here to talk about
my right to party. I'm here to talk about my right as a patient to qualified
medicine and to have access to that medicine wherever I live in the state of
Oregon. It's a shame that we now have gone
backwards and gone back to putting patients on the
east side of our state and in many other areas
and denied them access. Many of those patients cannot afford to grow for
themselves. Many of them patients cannot do for
themselves whatsoever and depend on people such as myself to be a caregiver
and a grower. Unfortunately we're hearing stories
that this has become so over-regulated and so costly
that our patients are going to lose access to qualified medicine.
They've already lost access to the places where they used to get their
qualified medicine. Michaela would never have gotten her
medicine in a Hermiston store if it were closed. She's alive today
because she was able to access that medicine. We all know that
first of all cannabis is medicine and to attest to that fact I can tell you that
our health care industry is the largest ones in the state of Oregon who provide
the health insurance for all of the people who are in this building
have already approached us and are looking for an integrated path
to cannabis therapeutics because their doctors know that cannabis is medicine.
The fact is is that they've already approached us. They're already looking
for an avenue. We've already given them a five-year integration path to be able
to utilize this for their own purposes to recommend it to
the patients as they are now doing through licenses.
The fact is is that our lawmakers and our need to know
that they have never been able to legislate the black market and that
trying to do it now will accomplish nothing but reinforce the black market
that we've worked so hard to get rid of here in Oregon.
I would like to say I'm very proud of Oregon. We are the second oldest state in
the nation to have a medical marijuana program and
have one of the most successful medical marijuana programs.
It's unfortunate that the lawmakers in their fury and
are trying to push prohibition again.
I only have one thing to say to our legislators
and that is instead of taking this program back to prohibition
and creating failure, they should be focused on building the success of
Oregon's future and the advantage that we may have.
Thank you.
