My name is Anna Diaz and I am from the Normal Women's Alliance and I'm also one of the founders
of Oregon Normal. And I'd like to talk to you today about legalization because it's time has come.
So we got some really great news from the DOJ. It sounds like maybe they're going to honor states'
rights to legalization in Colorado and Washington. And even in Oregon,
the legislature is already talking about creating a law there rather than letting it go through the
initiative process. So clearly the powers that be are starting to understand that legalization is
something that the people want and something that the people have are requiring. And that's
really good news. The bad news is our people are still getting busted. Just this summer,
my good friend Lori from Southern Oregon got raided for providing safe access to patients.
Just this last week, 14 private residents in Oregon, right here in Portland, got busted.
I haven't heard all the details yet. Somebody left me a note that said, well maybe they should
have gotten busted for shipping 50 pounds of weed to Texas and New York. And my first thought was,
don't people in Texas and New York need weed too?
It is time for prohibition to end. And it is time for everybody out here that's having a good time
to step up and contact your local representatives and your federal representatives and tell them to
stop sending us to jail. Stop taking our babies. Stop destroying our families and allow us to
consume cannabis in peace like we're doing right here, right now.
And you guys are the ones who can make it happen. I'm just one person and I've had some kind of
impact on this movement. If every one of you stepped up, you could do the same thing. I'm not
anybody special. I'm just a person who's pissed off. And if you're not pissed off about what's
happening with cannabis in our community today, then you're not paying attention. Because even
though we are so fortunate that we can be out here enjoying the freedom of weed right here,
right now, our people are still getting busted. Our people are still going to jail. And it's mostly
people of color and people who are younger. So you kids who think it's really cool to sell weed so
you can pay your rent, you need to help us legalize too, because you can get a real job in
the cannabis community. You can get benefits. You can have a 40-hour work week and get paid to do
that same thing if we legalize. If we can grow industrial hemp in this state, the jobs that will
be created and the sustainability that it will provide for us is infinitely large. I can't even
put it into words. It's so huge. I was unemployed for two years trying to find a job here. If we
have jobs through industrial hemp and the cannabis businesses that can be built once we legalize,
I probably could have had a job the first day. So today I ask you all, as you're out here enjoying
yourselves, when you go home, think about what a good time you had. Think about how great it
felt to be free. Because doesn't it feel great to feel free? I can't hear you. Doesn't it feel great to be free?
Call those representatives. Email them. Send them a postcard. Drive them crazy. Make them know that
they know who you are and that you support cannabis legalization. Don't vote for anybody
that doesn't support cannabis legalization. If you're from Washington, there's a petition here
you can sign today that promotes real legalization. Sign them all. Let's legalize. My name is Anna Diaz
and I am a proud stoner. Join me in this anti-air water girl petition. Thank you.
