I need all of us to gather our voices and let Congress know as soon as possible,
put your joint down, step away from your box just for a little while,
and let them know that you need them to end cannabis prohibition today.
Let's not wait. Over 800,000 of us are being arrested. That is a bunch of bullshit.
Am I right? Is that bullshit?
Well, I'm calling bullshit and I need you to call bullshit. I need you to make the connection.
And I don't mean to score. I mean, let's score with Congress. Let's make them start thinking
about us. We are a huge constituency out here. Go to your town hall meetings in the town you live in
and let your representatives know that you don't want to take it anymore.
That prohibition is not patriotic. It is not patriotic. Prohibition is a lie.
It is just like I said, a bunch of bullshit.
Just like you agreed with me. Aren't you tired of our people being arrested?
Yeah. I'm tired, tired, tired of it. Every year, the numbers eke up a little bit higher
and a little bit higher. But you know what? They told me a year ago that I could not open
the world famous cannabis cafe. We were world famous in 24 hours. And it's been a year and
it's still going on strong every day. We give away medicine and you could have a cannabis cafe
in your city. But it's up to you to stand up. Stand with me. Stand with normal. Go over here
to the normal booth and join us. We fight. We have Keith Straub, who's the founder of normal.
He is Papa Normal. He started before any other organization. And that's why I stand strong with
normal. You ladies, you need to buckle up your bras and get on board with the normal women's
alliance. Pauline Sabin stood her ground and fought against alcohol prohibition. And we need
to do the same thing. Women, come on, join the normal women's alliance, please. Because your
children are going to be arrested. Your brothers and your sisters are going to be arrested. We must
take a stand now. Does everybody hear me? Do you hear what I'm saying to you? Are you with me? Do
you stand with me? Go out there and sign these petitions so we can change tomorrow. So we can
have a more sensible future. Let's spend our money feeding people. Let's spend our money housing the
homeless. We don't need to fight against Americans. Let's legalize industrial hemp so no other
Americans have to die for foreign oil. We can grow our own oil. We can feed our people.
We can save this planet. We're destroying it now. Help us out. Vote hemp. Fight for the end of
prohibition. Please. I'm the chief petitioner for sensible Oregon. And I'm telling you, if you're
in Oregonian, go find us, sign our petition. Please. Come down to the Cannabis Cafe if you
live in Oregon. And if you live anywhere, come pay us a visit. We would love to see you.
We would love to see you. See what reality, altering reality is really like. Every single day.
We give it away and it's always for 20. I love you guys. You're beautiful. I hope that you will
drop the money in the bucket. Help support hemp fast. Madeline Martinez from Oregon Normal. Get up.
