Launch into the show and tell.
Now this, very interesting, it's a, I'll open it up,
but it's a cannabis, indica, and salicic acid plaster.
And it has these nifty...
It's still got the crystals, you can see them.
It's all crystally and it's ready to be put on there
to stop gross on your skin, I think is what this is for.
It's a big, huge plaster, it's about eight by nine.
What year was that made?
Do you have any idea?
It's Seabury and Johnson, this is about 1880.
Seabury and Johnson was predecessor of Johnson and Johnson.
It later became Johnson and Johnson.
And they're out of...
So that's a name we should all know and trust.
Yep, exactly.
And make our baby oil.
Then right next door here,
from Sharpen Dome of Philadelphia,
we have a migraine medicine with cannabis included in it.
This one's nifty because it's still full.
It's a remedy for rheumatism and gout with cannabis.
And it's, you can see still mostly there,
rheumatism and gout with that one.
This one's for neuralgia and cannabis indica
and zinc phosphate and strychnine
are the main ingredients in that one.
Now this little bottle here was supposed to hold
100 ergotin and cannabis indica pills.
Little itty bitty teeny tiny cannabis indica pills
and ergotin.
Was an extract from ergot fungus that includes LSD
and other LSD like substances.
That's where they get LSD is,
it's synthesized from ergot fungus.
I learned so much on this show.
Something new every day.
Now this is a corn silk from Great Britain
and it is made from cannabis indica.
There must be a hundred different medicines out there
for corns made from cannabis back between 1840 and 1930.
You'd think that it must have been working
if they'd used it that much.
Now this one, last of our medicine bottles
and this is the newest addition to the THCF collection here.
This is for cough.
It's a cough treatment syrup.
It has, this one?
It has, let me just say cannabis indica
and morphine diacetate.
So that's heroin.
So this was cannabis and heroin and that's from 1890.
Yes, the bottle says that too,
just from the color of the bottle,
it predates World War I.
Yeah, it's a pretty nifty bottle
and to think that they sold cannabis mixed with heroin
over the counter for coughs and little bottles.
It also has chloroform in it.
Yeah, that'll knock you out too.
That's powerful mixture right there.
That is, that is, you wouldn't need much of that stuff.
And then we have some hemp milks,
hemp bliss from Manitoba Harvest.
A couple new hemp milk products out there
that are really tasty and those are organic.
Can't beat that.
Well, so much for sharing.
Art's show and tell.
