We're watching where people understand that the insane policy of forcing a state legal marijuana business to be conducted on an all cash basis.
Actually, I have, thank you for reminding everybody how old I am, I've been working on this issue for a long time.
I have never met a human being, regardless of how they feel about whether marijuana should be legal or not.
I've never met one person who feels that there's any rationale to force it to be conducted on an all cash basis.
And we're gaining support, we have bipartisan support for legislation to deal with fixing that item.
And 280E, I met with several hundred tax practitioners this morning, several of whom were really concerned that, again, state legal marijuana businesses cannot fully deduct their business expenses.
So they have an effective tax rate that's two, three, four times what a typical business would have.
And when I introduced that legislation at my press conference was Grover Norquist, the Republican, no tax pledge guy who convenes all the conservative activists in Washington DC on a weekly basis.
And Grover was there, sort of indicating that this is not partisan.
What I think is going to happen, since we have eight states voting, it's going to pass in California.
I was there again last Friday, going to Arizona this week where it's ahead.
Medical marijuana will pass in Florida, I predict, with at least a 70% yes vote.
And even though it's just medical, Florida will become the second largest legal marijuana market in America.
So what you are seeing is the momentum that is building.
We've got people who have been supportive of these, and there's going to be a tipping point where over 270 million people will be in states where some form of marijuana business is legal at the state level.
So I think the dam's going to break. We're going to get an opportunity for the banking to be taken care of, the 280E.
And ultimately I think we're going to also have the dam break as it relates to research.
There's been a little loosening with DEA. We have bipartisan support for a piece of legislation that would really enable marijuana research to be conducted with the same sort of provisions and safeguards as other controlled substances, which now it's more stringent for marijuana.
So I think we're watching this year, with those election results in less than three weeks, changing the dynamics on the ground with the momentum that we've built, I think it's all going to turn in the next Congress.
