Vivian, thank you.
Thank you.
And thank you all for being here.
My God, look at all of you.
This is fantastic.
It's taken a long time, but we're finally at this point.
I work with Voter Power, manage their Portland Patient Resource Center.
I'm also working with the Oregon Marijuana Policy Initiative,
one of the three legalization initiatives currently circulating in this state.
Three. Three chances.
Three opportunities to change the world.
Just getting one of those on the ballot will send a message across the country.
Pass one, and we've changed everything.
And it's all up to us, and we can make it happen.
I started working in this state years ago.
My good friend Paul Stanford and John Sajo and I and a lot of other people
put something called the Oregon Marijuana Initiative on the ballot back in 1986.
It was fantastic.
And you know, back then, this was just a dream.
No one ever believed that we'd have millions of people around the country safe
because they're medical cannabis patients in legal states like the state of Oregon.
We never dreamed it could happen, and it did,
because we've never stopped trying, we've never stopped believing.
And that's what it's all about.
If you're a registered voter, if you're a registered voter
and you have not yet signed the initiatives, do it now.
Only sign once, but sign each of those initiatives that one time.
If you're not a registered voter, register.
And if you're not a registered voter because you're too young,
thank you for being here.
Pick up information, go to these tables, go to the nonprofits,
get their information, get their literature.
You're here to learn, my friends.
Because if this were an anti-nuclear demonstration,
if this were about health care, the environment, the economy, anything else,
we'd have newspapers filled with pictures of you
and how proud they are that you're taking an interest in politics,
taking an interest in making social change.
And instead, we're going to get shots of kids smoking joints.
But, yo, the joint is not the point.
We've got to fight for our right to party,
and that means we need you to be educated.
We need you to educate your parents and your friends.
Get the literature, get this information.
It's never too young to start being serious about making this a better world.
And that's what this is all about.
This is a movement powered by love.
Oh, and it's also powered by money.
You'll see people around gathering donations.
A lot of great groups here, the Hemp and Cannabis Foundation,
which is the primary sponsor, and of course all the others,
Oregon Normal and such, give.
You bought that glass piece, it's great.
You've got an extra five bucks left over.
Donate it to a good cause, because that's how this kind of stuff happens.
That's how this kind of stuff happens.
I want to thank all of you and all the people who make this possible,
because this is how change happens.
You're beautiful. Thank you.
Doug McVeigh from Voter Power's Patient Resource Center
and also the Oregon Marijuana Policy Initiative.
And Doug's right, the joint's not the point,
but for every joint that dies, a roach is born.
And that's the truth.
