Thanks Scott. Well Mexico from Monday CBD is legal in Mexico. It's a big turnaround.
We've had some people call it a war. It's just been very crazy the situation what's going on.
But thanks to all the movement that's happened I guess worldwide, the advancements in CBD, industrial hemp,
Mexico now as of Monday will have legal CBD. That will probably put an end to this drug war that we've been seeing.
Also we're starting to work with hempcrete in Mexico. The advantage of this is building in Mexico is actually quite cheap.
So even though now we have to import the material from Europe, the costs of this are dramatically low.
We can provide houses for a lot of people. This is kind of our return to nature.
Hemp can provide us a lot of solutions and housing is one of our basic necessities.
So going back to nature, not only hemp can provide us that, but there's other plants like bamboo, there's coconuts.
If we start utilizing these plants we can start seeing solutions that basically to bring up more culture, more education, more infrastructure.
This will stop all this violence that we're starting to see.
I guess from all this, we've always been neighbors. Mexico and the US is pretty much the same thing.
For a while I guess there was that bad weed, but nowadays we have very good growers in Mexico.
It's very much underground still. You cannot be very public.
But the good thing is that in Mexico laws are just suggestions.
We don't have these very harsh penalties for if they catch you with 60 plants.
Unfortunately if you cannot pay the cops, you cannot get away.
We're going I guess the underground route, but nowadays you see small associations popping up.
A lot of people that are growing for making RSO through this CBD now is legal.
I guess through the law structure you can defend yourself for a constitutional right.
It's against your constitution or your human right to deny you your medicine.
For a little girl that she has 400 epileptic attacks a day, very similar to Charlotte, a judge just allowed her the permit to legally import CBD.
So as we were saying on Monday, medicinal marijuana is legal in Mexico.
This is the doorway to start getting more people on it.
I guess what's happening in Chile, the whole movement of grow your own auto cultivo is becoming very big.
Because if you're going to grow your own medicine, grow your own food, grow your own beer, grow your own house, grow your own energy, grow your own everything.
Liberate yourself from all this that's holding us down. Let's return to nature.
I guess we get into cannabis because in Mexico we've always been marijuanos.
It's been our culture. Half of my family comes from Mexico, but the other half comes from St. Vincent.
They were always, I guess, survivors. People call them slaves, but we call them survivors.
They always used the medicine to heal themselves for everything.
So from that we've always been exposed to cannabis and to some really, really good outdoor cannabis.
Some plants that reach five meters. Just beautiful, beautiful plants.
They're land races. They're not as big as money.
But from that we learned a lot about the medicine. It's always been in our culture.
Our grandmothers use it for arthritis.
Unfortunately in my family a lot of people have died from cancer.
And we never really had this safe access because you always have to literally risk your life to do this.
We've lost a lot of friends along the way.
But the idea is that this is our freedom.
And not only hemp, cannabis, bamboo.
Like I say, go back to nature. That's where everything comes from.
We come from there, we go back to that.
So through that we try to help people grow. We try and help people with medicine.
Whatever you guys need, come to Mexico. It's not as bad as it sounds on the news.
Just give us a call and we'll have a great time.
