But even though people can't get access to buy marijuana anymore,
they know that it's legal, we wanted to make sure that they were able to learn about it
and they had access to get to know it.
So, we're going to try to do as well as we can to make this more competent.
So, as a general question, whenever a marijuana patient comes to you,
give them a message and tell them what you want.
So, the best thing about Residue 91 is that everybody in the state of Oregon
has the ability to grow their own medicine and their own marijuana.
And this is a victory.
This is something we've worked long and hard for and it's amazing.
And to be in control of your own medicine,
you don't know what people are doing to you as a medicine dispensary.
Don't grow your own because you'll know what's in your medicine.
You'll know how to grow your medicine as you're controlling it.
We have the power to grow this in our backyard and I can only ask you to encourage everybody to do so.
Hi, I'm Christine.
I'm from the Colony of the Great Medical.
This plant, I watched the plant grow my daughter's day after when she was 7 years old.
And I did enough research to know that this plant has a lot of preventative health properties in it.
So, when people are recreationally using this plant,
they're also preventing cancer, they're helping themselves,
they're helping their bodies grow.
My personal belief is that all you need to prevent this is to cut the car tank and have a good recreational as well.
We have to make things happen.
We can't ask for them to happen.
It's been one of the big classes that we've already proven here in our dispensaries.
Had we gone to the legislature and said we want dispensaries,
they of course would have told us no.
But having 50 plus dispensaries spring up all around the state
meant that we were putting pressure on the legislators.
They have to be able to come to the table and say how do we control this now?
We're invested and now we have to deal with that.
This was the next step in that level.
So, I'm very proud to have made that step
and being able to create dispensaries here in Oregon
and to have access for patients who didn't want to own it all.
We just had to create the availability of it.
Now, we're really excited about the fact that giving these things away to everyone
in St. Lawrence Unified because we feel safer if our neighbor has flow plants in their backyard.
It's not competitive for me as a producer, as a seed breeder, or as a grower
to be the only guy on the block.
We really want everyone to be able to have this opportunity
and to be able to have this experience and give it a try.
And we're going to make that experience available
and we feel that it's going to be a much safer for them when that happens.
Four years ago, when Oregon had the medical marijuana program,
we thought that commercial weed was impossible.
We thought having medical marijuana was impossible.
We created a medical marijuana program
and have actively continued to fight a good fight.
And here we are today in 2015, and we're legally Oregon.
So, I guess it's really right to keep fighting for that number.
What's right for your team?
Start with the medical program and then encourage and urge the public
to support what we support and do these things with medical.
And then more states have legal medical marijuana programs
like we do here all over the country at a federal level.
