Yeah? You feeling good? Well I'm really excited to be here, super glad to be back
here again. For those of you who don't know about the ACLU, we are one of the
oldest civil liberties organizations in the country. National organization is
almost a hundred years old now and we've had an organization here in Portland and
in Oregon for over 60 years. And we have been working on drug war issues
and on marijuana issues for a very very long time. Back when we were fighting for
decriminalization of small amounts of marijuana a long long time ago, fighting
for medical marijuana and then fighting for fighting for recreational marijuana.
And really the fight continues. So I'm the policy director. I work on
legislation at the state legislature. I also advocate in the city,
the city of Portland and and cities and counties around the around the state.
So you know at the ACLU we really believe that the drug war and and and the war
against marijuana that has been going on for a very very long time. It's one of
the most important civil liberties issues of our time. Really one of the
most important issues. It's important because it has to do with people's
access to medicine which is incredibly important to all of us. And it also has
to do with our personal autonomy, right? The decisions that we make about our own
bodies and what we do with our own bodies and how how we do things with our
bodies that doesn't hurt anybody else, right? We're not hurting anybody else
when we make decisions about using or not using marijuana. And so it's it's a
really crucial issue that we be able to have that freedom, right? Not only that,
the drug war intersects with so many other civil liberties issues that are
important to us, right? There's there's a huge intersection with racial justice
when we look at the way the drug war has really disproportionately impact
communities of color in this country and also frankly all around the world, right?
And then there's such a huge intersection obviously with the criminal
justice system and with the fact that we've been locking people up and and you
know for manufacturing marijuana, for selling marijuana, for using marijuana
for far far too long. So you know we have come really far and I'd like us just to
like take a moment to actually like acknowledge that at least here in Oregon
we have come really really far and we should like seriously pat ourselves on
the back all of us for that fight, right? It's absolutely amazing but we also need
to acknowledge and recognize that we have so much farther to go, right? Here in
Oregon, you know we at the ACLU we dream of an Oregon where insurance pays for
medical marijuana, right? Where people have access to marijuana and not being
able to afford it is not gonna stop them from being able to access their medicine,
right? We dream of a world where medical patients and recreational users don't
face discrimination in the workplace and in housing and where we actually
have protections against that kind of discrimination, right? Because
what people are doing for medicine and what people are doing in their free time
shouldn't have anything to do with what they're doing on the job, right? And where
they get to live. So those are huge issues that we need to fight here in
Oregon but we also have a responsibility to fight for legalization in every
single state in this country and not only that we need legalization
everywhere in the world and we really need to take responsibility for
the fact that the United States really has, they took the drug war
international, right? And we brought that mindset to places where that
mindset did not even exist, right? And so we have a responsibility not only to
change things here but to change things in the rest of the world. So I'm just
really, you know, I'm honored to be here. I'm honored to be part of this amazing
community of people who advocate for our rights and advocate against
cannabigotry. We do have a lot of work to do and I'm just here to tell you the
ACLU of Oregon will be here. We will continue to fight with you and I'm
just really, really honored to be part of that fight. So thank you so much, everyone.
