You know, I think marijuana is God's greatest gift to us. I think it's, you
know, it could save our world. A friend of mine, John Trudell, says hemp is earth
medicine. You know, it's medicine for our bodies, it helps us achieve homeostasis
where our body systems are aligned, and it produces more fuel, more fiber, more
food than any other plant on this planet. You know, the law here isn't good enough
yet. The vote for I-502 is a big step forward, but we need to restore hemp and
let people grow their own. Unfortunately, the current law doesn't allow you to
grow your own. The taxes are too high. Marijuana grows on trees. I personally
grow 12-foot tall marijuana trees in Oregon, and I give it away for free. I
enjoy that. You know, I give it to sick and dying patients, and I've been doing it
for years. I call it America's most public marijuana garden, but I do it all
organically, and it saved many people's lives. But it's not just about the
medicine. You know, humans began cultivating marijuana before history, in
prehistoric times, and all archaeologists agree that marijuana, hemp, could be the
oldest crop purposely grown by humans, perhaps as much as 35,000 years ago. So
it's the basis of the foundation of agriculture, and that means the
foundation of civilization itself. So it produces more fuel, over 300 gallons an
acre, what they find from feral hemp fields in Illinois. Oh, more food, 6,000
pounds of hemp seed meals left over after they press the oil out of it. More
fiber, 30 to 40 tons of fiber for canvas, rope, lace, linen, paper, and building
materials. And more medicine for us, and the leaves go back into the soil. The
root draws up subsoil nutrients and makes them available in the next crop
rotation. And you know, when we burn hemp fuel, it's carbon negative. We're taking
carbon out of the atmosphere to make it into fuel. So hemp can really change our
whole economic paradigm. When we are able to grow hemp without regard to its
THC content, but with regard to the varieties that produce the most seed oil,
seed protein, and stalks and stems for fiber, it'll change the whole economic
paradigm. Instead of giving our money to Exxon and Mobil and the Saudi sheiks and
the Nigerian despots and the Swiss bank accounts, it'll go to our farmers and
into our pockets and in our communities. No, marijuana prohibition was never about
drugs. Marijuana prohibition and drugs, it's a smokescreen, pardon the pun, but
marijuana prohibition has always been about money, power, and the continued
centralization of economic and political control. And when we end marijuana
prohibition and allow farmers to grow hemp for fuel, fiber, food, and medicine,
we'll change the whole economic paradigm and take the money out of the hands of
the petrochemical, pharmaceutical, military, industrial, transnational,
corporate, elite, fascist sons of a bitches. And we'll put it in our pockets
instead. So get active politically. Don't settle for what we have. Work to make
this world a better place, please. That is your mission. Please go from here and
do that. Thanks for listening. Help us restore hemp. Have a good day.
