It's great to hear Doug and the attorneys are fighting it for us in the courts. I want you to know that you have hope
in the
referendum system. We have referendum
676 against
5052. What we've done is removed the most damaging parts that
cut patients access, that shut down
authorization clinics, that shut down
access points.
That eliminate all our testing from labs.
We need only
123,000 signatures to put this on the ballot for a vote of the people in November.
Now people ask us why we didn't do more.
We got to remember it's just not just us voting. It's the mainstream voters.
So we did as little as we felt was necessary to achieve the goals of saving medical this year.
Check out our 76 bill.org. You'll be able to volunteer. You'll be able to donate your time, your talent, or your money.
But we only have
76 days
76 days to get
123,000 signatures. I'm going to tell you when this initiative came out sponsored by Mr.
William Kurtz who fought for you by going to appeal, going to the Supreme Court and
being remanded back to Thurston County and they quit.
Bill was a convicted felon.
Bill lost his right to vote.
Bill was paying money out of his pocket that he needed to put food on his table with.
And Doug Hyatt stood up.
And
Susan Elliott stood up and the courts agreed and they sent it back and Thurston County was too embarrassed to fight on.
So Bill returned his right to vote and he signed to register to vote and then filed
76.
It's going to do a lot of patience, take a lot of people and a lot of patience to get signatures.
But we cannot depend on our people alone.
We need professionals out there to make up the difference between what we can do ourselves
and what they're able to do as professionals.
We need money, but we're getting it. I'm down for a thousand bucks and I make 12 bucks an hour.
I was down in Portland last weekend. Paul Stanford is putting down a thousand dollars on this and I hear today
that Paul is going to write a letter, put a referendum sheet
in an envelope and mail it to every THCF clinic patient in Washington State to support us.
All right, you do what you can. If all you can do is sign it, sign it.
If all you can do is take a sheet to your friends and family and bring them back, that's great.
But if you're a grower, if you're a medical grower making your living,
putting your bread on the table, grow it. If you're an access point serving patients and want to be there
next July, if you're an authorization clinic and you go on the road and take care of people that don't have
primary care physicians, that don't have access to these people, that don't have the resources,
then we've got to save us all and keep us open.
Now once that's done, I've got to tell you that the money interest came out as hard and you can see it in 50-52.
It's time to stop fighting. It's time to come together and do what the legislature has failed to do since 1998.
And that's to codify our best practices as they exist now.
We have patients that come into our places because they are clean, because they're respectable,
because they're honorable and safe.
We don't want patients to be forced under 50-52 to go and get their medicine at a 502 store.
Pesticides are not good medicine. We must keep medical cannabis safe and separate.
Separate from recreational demand.
I don't want patients to go into the store when they finally have a few dollars
and only to be able to buy a little bit instead of what they need.
And I don't want any patient to go into any store and not get their medicine
because somebody else got there before them and bought it just to get high.
When that happens, you cannot obtain their medicine at any price.
And this is why we must keep medical separate from recreational demand.
Please check out the referendum.
The Northwest Cannabis Market is having a patient's rally on the 17th.
There's going to be hot dogs, there's going to be some speakers.
We will get petitions in your hands.
If you own an access point, if you're a grower, if you've got an authorization clinic,
get us your email. You can volunteer your information on the site.
We will mail you petitions.
We're not going to ask you to print your own or run to the printer or become any of that.
All you've got to do is send us your information.
We'll send you the envelope.
Put it out in front of your people.
Get it out in your community and we will get this done.
This must happen by July 23rd to vote in November.
And when we go into the next legislative session with legislation in hand that saves us,
it'll be because we won at the polls in November that the people, not just our people,
but everybody in Washington is going to have a choice to say,
the legislature did a great job, let's make that the law or no, we must keep medical separate.
We think that they will agree.
Thank you.
