Now here's the host of your show, Paul Stanford and Paul Loney.
Hello and welcome to another exciting edition of Cannabis Common Sense.
Our show is a production of our Oregon Political Committee, Campaign for the Restoration and
Regulation of Hemp.
My name is Paul Stanford and I would like to introduce my co-host, our attorney, our
treasurer, chief petitioner, and the president of the Oregon Wildlife Federation, Paul Loney.
Thanks Paul, that's correct.
I am all those things and I'm also here to tell you what our initiative is all about.
It's a comprehensive system to regulate cannabis, marijuana, here in the state of Oregon.
It would allow the sale of marijuana to medical patients through pharmacies at cost.
It would allow the sale to adults over 21 of psychoactive marijuana in state liquor
stores.
It would allow people to grow it at home for their own personal use and allow our farmers
to grow it for products.
It's the non-psychoactive variety to take part in the world trade as it were.
And tonight we're real fortunate to have once again a special guest, an attorney all the
way from Hawaii.
He used to live here in Portland, he used to live in Washington, D.C., he used to live
in Texas, but right now he's sitting on a couch next to me and this is Lanny Sinken.
Thank you Paul, it's a pleasure to be here.
Alright, and see you're here for, on behalf of a couple of cases that I'm involved with,
so why don't you tell us about the CRH case, the Campaign Restoration Case, as the 9th
Circuit likes to call it.
Right, this is a civil rights action brought in Portland on behalf of three political organizations
and one individual.
And it stems from the city of Portland using public resources for partisan political purposes.
The story begins when the campaign to pay for schools by regulating cannabis announced
its petition drive to put an initiative on the ballot in January of 1995, I guess that
would have been.
Exactly, January of 1995.
It was their first effort.
On the same day that they held their press conference announcing that, the official spokesperson
for the Portland Police Department, an officer named Jensen, appeared before the television
cameras to question the motivations of those who were sponsoring this initiative.
And that act alone constitutes official opposition to signature gathering, which is against state
law in Oregon, more importantly is an unconstitutional use of public funds for partisan purposes.
The fourth amendment to the United States Constitution guarantees all citizens a republican
form of government.
What that means is that while people may delegate their power to a government, the government
cannot operate partially on behalf of any group within the society, it must be responsible
to all the people where the power continues to reside.
So for our government to use public resources in a partisan way to try and defeat one side
of a political issue is both illegal and unconstitutional.
And once Officer Jensen did come out publicly opposing the initiative, Paul Stanford wrote
to the mayor, Mayor Katz at the time and still, saying that this was an illegal act and requesting
the mayor to tell the police not to do this kind of thing.
There was no response to that letter.
A copy of that letter went to the chief of police, Mr. Moose.
Mr. Stanford then called the mayor's office to ask why there had been no response.
And the mayor's aide said that there would be no response because the mayor agreed with
what the police officer was doing, disagreed with the initiative.
So that gave an official imprimatur, an official okay to the illegal use of public funds to
campaign against the gathering of signatures on this initiative and indeed prompted further
police action along the same lines.
Two officers tried to prevent the issuance of a permit for the annual Hemp Festival.
Jeff and Susie Crawford are key organizers of that annual event.
Jeff had applied for the permit for the event.
Two police officers went to the Parks Department and tried to convince the Parks Department
not to issue the permit.
Had the Parks Department not issued the permit, it would have been a clearly unconstitutional
act, a clear civil rights violation for the Hemp event sponsors, a denial of their civil
rights.
Here you have two police officers paid in their official position with the sanction
of their supervising police officer trying to convince other public employees to act
unconstitutionally to suppress an event at which signatures were to be gathered on an
initiative.
Again a violation of state law, a violation of constitutional principles.
So those two officers were named as well.
I remember in that case, once Jeff Crawford was saying that, complaining to the police
officer and said that something like, you know, this is a violation of our constitutional
rights and one of the officers that's included in the suit responded that the Constitution
doesn't mean anything.
And so that's the type of mentality we're dealing with here.
What the police officers did too was, fortunately the Parks Department simply would not go along
with them and did issue the permit as they should have.
Once that was done, the police then organized their own counter event and they wanted to
put it right next to the Hemp Festival and the Parks Department put it down the street.
But it was a counter event that included bringing in seized vehicles, helicopters, Coast Guard
boats, all kinds of intimidation to strike fear into those that would be attending the
Hemp Festival.
I trust it was perceived by them more as entertainment than a source of fear, but it was designed
to instill fear in them.
Well, you know, we do face fear in our campaign.
I can't think of a single other political organization that has to deal with supporters'
paranoia the way we do.
There are people who don't want to call us, don't want to sign our petitions because they're
afraid that the police are going to come after them.
Having the police come out in the media this way just reinforces that fear that our organization
has to deal with that no other political group today that I know of has to deal with.
I mean, during the Civil Rights actions in the 60s, the Civil Rights organizations had
to deal with police repression.
But today, I can't think of others.
No, and it's an important point.
It's really what the Civil Rights law was designed to prevent, which was the use of
public power to suppress unpopular political movements.
And the case that we have brought is a case under the Civil Rights Act.
After the Hemp event was held, two other officers, one from the Marijuana Task Force and one
from the DARE program, were approached by a reporter doing a story about the initiative
and they gave statements opposing the initiative and why they opposed the initiative.
Again, directly contradictory to state law that forbids such activity by public employees
for good reason.
I mean, the law is based on the idea that the public government cannot use public resources
to fund one side of a political campaign.
The law does make a distinction between statements of personal opinion and statements that are
violations of this law.
If a police officer working for the Marijuana Task Force wants to sit around his kitchen
table and tell his friends that he thinks that the initiative is a terrible idea, that's
one thing.
When he's giving an interview to a member of the press in his official position with
his official identification on official time paid for by all the taxpayers.
In uniform.
In uniform.
That's a whole other thing.
And that's what we have here with the five officers that have been named in the suit.
A very, how should I put it, biased judge that we faced here in Portland threw the case
out saying that there were no federal claims identified in this case.
That we've taken up on appeal to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.
By the time this show is aired, I think that appeal will have been heard.
Correct.
And we will be waiting for a decision.
Part of the rule under the Civil Rights Act is for a municipality to be liable.
We have named the city of Portland as the chief defendant in this case.
You must have a policy being implemented.
And one of the indicators that there is a policy is if official policy makers ratify
the actions that were violations of civil rights.
When Mayor Katz said that she was not going to take any action regarding Officer Jensen's
illegal statements to the press and in fact supported those statements because she opposed
the initiative, then Mayor Katz made the city of Portland liable for any damages that a
jury would care to reward to the three organizations or Mr. Crawford, who is also a plaintiff in
this instance.
I should say that another piece of the puzzle is that we filed complaints or actually Paul
Stanford filed complaints with the state.
The state has to enforce the election laws.
So those complaints were filed with the state elections division asking that they penalize
the police officers who were violating state law.
And we did a dance with that state group that went on for more than three years, if I'm
correct, or somewhere in the neighborhood of two and a half years, before we could ever
get any kind of real response from the state government that's supposed to be enforcing
the state law.
But the state law is quite clear that state employees, particularly municipal employees,
are not to engage in political activity funded by the municipality.
And that that's a law that's posted where they can all see it, they are all aware of
it.
It was very interesting in the newspaper interviews where the two officers came out opposed to
the initiative.
Other state employees said we are not allowed by law to comment directly on an initiative.
They did comment on what effects the initiative might have on the administration of their
particular agency, things like that, perfectly legitimate.
But the police were right up front.
One officer said I'm opposed to the initiative.
That was his lead statement.
So we had a whole series of violations.
We went to the state government and asked them to do something about it.
They wouldn't do anything about it.
We went to the municipal government, asked them to do something about it.
They wouldn't do anything about it.
So we eventually had to go to the federal courts.
And we will now wait and see what the federal court has to say about whether the relief
that's being sought, which is an injunction to prevent them from doing this kind of thing
while the new campaign is going on, will indeed be entered.
If it is, it will be additional protection for people who are trying to gather the signatures,
an acknowledgement that people who are trying to gather the signatures are entitled to the
protection of the Civil Rights Act.
It would be very helpful in that sense.
Just in the past year, I've had the police, the Portland Police Marijuana Task Force agents
oppose us in the media several times again.
So it's continuing.
It's clear they're not getting the message.
And we hope this lawsuit will send that message.
And that it's also clear that when people are afraid to participate in the political
process, we have a real problem.
I hope that people who want to support the initiative will not be afraid.
And the way to get past the fear is to simply get past the fear.
If enough people sign the initiative, if enough people circulate the initiative, if enough
people contribute money, then they can't go out and go after everybody.
And the more we get people of stature in the community, I hope that anybody that's holding
a political office or is an acknowledged leader in the community who cares about democracy
will sign these petitions to put this initiative on the ballot to give people a chance to vote
yes or no.
It's not saying you favor the change in the law.
It's really saying you favor people being given the right to vote on this.
I hope that political leaders and community leaders and people who are acknowledged in
the community as having stature, even by the police, will sign this, will contribute to
it to give the protection of their participation to those that are on the cutting edge of political
activity and suffering from official repression for engaging in such activity.
Yeah, I think it's a good time here to bring up our phone number again.
So our phone number, if you want to get involved, like Lanny says, everybody should be involved,
it's area code 503-235-4606.
That's 503-235-4606.
And we can mail you the petitions.
And we hope that you go out and get signatures.
And even if you put your own signature on it, that's great because we need everybody's signature.
72,000 valid signatures is approximately what we need.
And there's a lot of registered voters out there in Oregon and you among them.
So please call us up and get our initiative.
We need help as well in the office.
And Paul, we have the website?
Yeah, on our website you can watch this TV show.
You can also watch hours of various video footage.
We have the entire film, Reefer Madness, an hour and a half Australian documentary called
Hemp Revolution.
It's at www.crrh.org.
The name of our political committee is Campaign for the Restoration and Regulation of Hemp,
thus crrh.org.
The .org is what they give non-profit political organizations, such as our own.
So I want to urge you, you can even print our petitions from the net.
You can watch literally dozens of hours of footage, very educational footage on that
website as well.
Yeah, you know, to get back to your point, to me, you'd think that most people in the
public, if you go up and talk to them, they say, you know, can a public official, while
on the job, being identified as a public official, comment on a political issue?
Everybody would say, well, of course not.
The distinction the law makes is between elected officials who have an obligation to comment
and non-elected officials who are on the public payroll as civil servants or otherwise public
employees.
And I would think it would be clear that we don't want, the way this law originally
came up, the whole context for the ruling, is an Oregon Supreme Court case in which the
issue was fluoridation.
And a municipal government had actually appropriated money to run a campaign in favor of fluoridation
that was challenged by people who opposed the fluoridation.
And the Oregon Supreme Court was quite clear that the government couldn't take public funds
and spend them on one side of an issue, couldn't hire people to go out and campaign as they
did in that instance on one side of an issue and print literature and all of those things.
And while the activity in this case hasn't reached that level, the type of activity is
exactly the same.
When Officer Jensen is sitting in front of the television camera questioning the motives
and otherwise discouraging people from signing this initiative, his time is being paid for
by the public, he's wearing his uniform, he's speaking in his official position as spokesperson
for the police department.
All of these are the checkoff points for whether he's speaking in his personal position and
has a free speech right to say what he's saying or whether he's speaking as a public official
which is forbidden under law and violates the Fourth Amendment, the fourth article
of the Constitution.
Yeah, I mean, and it's really clear too is that, I mean, at that time, you know, he was
the face and voice of Portland Police Department.
That's the one that they would show on television every night whenever there was, you know,
a gruesome murder or, you know, or whatever you want to talk about.
He was the face and a voice that people saw and so he was the official voice.
So it's just real obvious that, you know, that, you know, when me to come up and ask
him for a comment on this, he should have said, sorry, no.
You know, come to me after hours over a beer or whatever and I can tell you what I personally
think.
And there's another element here that people should be aware of.
Given the laws on confiscation of property and taking people's property if they're arrested
on a drug offense, the number of those laws target the proceeds of those confiscations
to go to the police department.
So you have police who essentially collect a bounty when they bust someone on drugs and
that gives them a bias automatically in favor of a program that pays their salaries as opposed
to changing the laws that would deny them those access to those resources.
So in the police, you even have a particularly biased group to be coming out and campaigning.
Not that any group on the public payroll should be coming out and campaigning, but the police
have every reason in the world to violate the law and engage in such a campaign, which
made it even more important that the political leadership coming from Mayor Katz or the administrative
leadership coming from Chief Moose say to those officers, this is not acceptable behavior.
We can understand you may feel strongly about it, but you're not allowed to use your official
position or official time to go out and campaign politically against this initiative.
They had almost a doubly important obligation because this group would be so tempted to
go out and protect their honeypot.
You know?
Yeah.
They have a huge economic incentive to continue the marijuana laws and they never bring that
up.
You know, recently they tried to recriminalize marijuana here in Oregon and I was down there
lobbying against it.
I can tell you that the only people that were lobbying in favor of it were the Association
of Chiefs of Police and the lobbyists for the state police.
There were no other lobbyists down there working on this issue except police officer lobbyists.
And they're the ones that pushed it through and fortunately we were able to stop that.
Now we're circulating, we stopped it through the referendum process by gathering 90,000
signatures.
Now we're circulating the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act to just completely end the war on marijuana
users and to regulate and tax the sale of marijuana to adults, allow medical marijuana
and industrial hemp.
We need your help.
So please call us at 235-4606.
If you're outside of the Portland area and this show plays in Klamath Falls and Ashland
and Corvallis and Eugene and also on the internet, if you're outside the Portland area it's 503-235-4606.
You know, you both are attorneys, Lanny Sinken and Paul Loney, and you're the ones carrying
this case forward.
Lanny, you've had a distinguished past, in my opinion, working for the Christick Institute,
which would be familiar to any historians, familiar with the Iran-Contra debacle.
And I wish we had a little bit of time to go into that.
Well, I can touch on that briefly.
The Christick Institute filed a racketeering case against many of the key figures in the
Iran-Contra scandal.
We engaged in all kinds of efforts to gather evidence and put it before the court.
Four days before we were supposed to go to trial, the judge threw the case out.
Then he ruled that the entire case was frivolous, fined us $1.2 million.
We went up on appeal to the 11th Circuit.
While we were on appeal, one judge was killed by a bomb.
There was an attempted assassination of a second judge.
We know from discussions with court personnel that those acts were attributed to our case,
or at least linked in their minds to our case.
So the appellate court at the 11th Circuit, through the appeal out, ruled the entire appeal
frivolous, even though we had amicus briefs from major national organizations, religious
organizations, legal organizations, political organizations.
And there was another $300,000 or $400,000 in penalties assessed against us.
They basically put the Christick Institute out of business.
That case was about democracy.
This case is about democracy.
There are things that can be so controversial that the democratic system has a hard time
dealing with them.
In the case of the Christick Institute's racketeering lawsuit, we were talking about 30 years of
illegal covert operations, and the judicial system simply could not deal with the evidence
that we wanted to present, could not allow the truth to come out that would expose these
government operations and damage the faith of the people that their government was operating
in their interest.
So you had official repression of that lawsuit, similar to what we've seen in the official
repression directed against the Hemp Movement.
But democracy is always a challenge because democracy means every one of us takes responsibility
for making it work.
That means every one of us is offended if someone is silenced by the government, or
by a policeman, or by the mayor, or by the city attorney.
Every one of us should be offended when that happens, because if everyone doesn't have
freedom of speech, then no one really has freedom of speech.
And only through the interplay of ideas and everyone's views getting on the table do we
ever reach the best understanding as to what we should be doing.
I'm sure right now there are major forces being marshaled to suppress information about
global warming and suppress information about many of the other environmental things, the
asthma epidemic among children that's happening on this planet.
And there will constantly be efforts to prevent information from coming out to the public
that might change public policy to the detriment of groups that are engaged in things they
shouldn't be doing.
So democracy does require constant vigilance.
And I think Paul and I as attorneys are happy to take these kinds of cases to the federal
judiciary, but we're also not Pollyannish about it in terms of what the federal judiciary
can or will do.
We're there to protect the Constitution and rights of the people.
But by now it must be close to 90% of the judges in the federal judiciary have been
appointed by Richard Nixon or Ronald Reagan or George Bush.
With President Clinton's appointments also being fairly right-wing generally, or at least
middle of the road, the age of the liberal justice, Justice Douglas, if he came back
and looked at the justices who are on the courts now, would be appalled at the kind
of activist reactionary judges we have who are undoing many years of civil rights and
other protections that were established by the judiciary.
You're fortunate here in Portland and us in Hawaii.
We're in the Ninth Circuit.
It is sort of the last bastion of democracy in the federal judiciary.
So we're optimistic that these cases will be successful that we're bringing on behalf
of the Hemp Movement in Portland.
But we're not sanguine about what's happening to the federal judiciary in general and about
the loss of freedoms that are taking place in the United States.
We in Hawaii are committed to the sovereignty movement, that in one form or another we trust
the islands of Hawaii will leave the United States over the next five or ten years.
Most people don't realize that Hawaii was an independent nation up until the late 1800s
when a conspiracy by United States government officials and plantation owners overthrew
the monarchy and then made Hawaii a state within the United States.
Many of us in Hawaii support the idea that Hawaii should become independent once again.
Then we won't have to worry about the federal judiciary in the United States.
You will, however, continue to worry about them and we wish you well.
You know, we need your help.
We are hoping you are willing to stand up for your rights and help us put the Oregon
Cannabis Tax Act on the ballot.
So call us at 235-4606.
If you are outside of the Portland area, that's 503-235-4606.
You know, as this is airing, we have just barely over three months left to go.
If in the past you've received some of our petitions, send them in now.
Don't wait.
Send petitions back in to us right now.
You know, we've sent petitions out to thousands of you that have watched this TV show and
we need them back.
We haven't gotten very many of them back at all.
So send them in.
If you've got them, please send them in so that we can put them into our account.
We've got to have all of our petitions by the end of June to be able to qualify the
Oregon Cannabis Tax Act.
If you'd like us to send you more petitions, we even have a business reply envelope.
We'd be happy to send that out to you.
Call us at 503-235-4606.
Now you can only circulate our petition if you're a registered Oregon voter.
If you aren't a registered Oregon voter, though, you can still help us.
We need donations.
We need all sorts of help that a political committee needs.
We want to pay petitioners.
We need money to do that.
So call us at 235-4606 or look at our website at www.crrh.org.
Even make a secure credit card donation through our website at www.crrh.org.
Yeah, definitely.
We need your help in a multitude of ways.
So just remember that.
If you're not a registered voter, you can still help us out.
If you don't have money, you can still help us out.
We always have envelope stuffing parties.
We have the mailing parties.
If you're a graphic designer, we can always use that for various events.
Just remember that we're out there to try and protect the rights of all of us.
Because it's easy to protect the right to say that, yeah, I'm a Democrat or a Libertarian
or a Pacific Party member.
But when it comes for the more difficult things, to change the hemp laws, that's
when it becomes more challenging.
I mean, it's easy to stand up for the popular rights.
It's much harder if we get these more difficult ones.
When you have police officials in a uniform saying that your idea is a bad idea, that's scary.
You need to stand up to that.
Well, I appreciate you lawyers coming in and standing up for all of us in the federal courts.
You know, as Thomas Paine said a couple hundred years ago, now's the time that sunshine
patriots will shrink.
But you folks are standing up.
And we hope you will, too.
So call us at 235-4606.
Most people don't realize that they use the Shakespeare quote, first we kill all the lawyers.
If you go back and actually read the play, the reason they wanted to kill all the lawyers
was the lawyers were defending the rights of people to do things.
So to get what they wanted, they first had to kill all the lawyers.
Oh, is that it?
To be able to rob everyone else.
To be able to get past them to get at everybody else.
So that's what, Zach, that's why, you know, that's what at least some lawyers do is protecting
all of our rights.
So help us out, 503-235-4606.
Good night.
Yeah, thanks for watching.
I'd like to thank Lanny Sinken from Traveling From the Islands of Hawaii to come here and
help us.
My pleasure and much aloha to all my friends in Portland and all those I haven't met yet.
Good night.
And tune in next week for another exciting edition of Cannabis Common Sense.
