I've been practicing law for 30 years, been protecting the rights of the marijuana smoker
since that time.
I ran in 1983 for Commissioner of Agriculture of Marijuana on a legal marijuana ticket.
Let me tell you, in 1983, that didn't go over too damn hot.
They said, Galbraith, how do you expect to win?
I said, well, there's more marijuana smokers than there are Republicans in the state.
If I can just get them to the polls, we can do that.
I've run, I've run, I ran in 91-95 for Governor, ran in 99 as a Reform Party candidate for
Governor, spent $20,000 and got 15.3% of the vote as a third party.
In Kentucky, that was pretty phenomenal.
Ran as an Independent for Congress in 2002, got 27% of the vote as an Independent on a
$20,000 budget.
You know, so I'm running this time as an Independent for Governor of the state of Kentucky.
And let me tell you, I was mighty impressed to hear these words from Madeline, because
she's got it exactly right.
Marijuana is just a symptom of the issue.
The real issue is, are we still sovereign human beings?
That's what the American Revolution was all about.
Marijuana is an iconic issue because it shows just how far the government has gone in overstepping
its bounds in policing private behavior and impinging on the whole idea of what America
itself is all about.
You know, before America, we were all property.
We belonged to the king or the queen or the warlord or whoever had the most gunpowder
in the valley.
And they said, hey, come in here, off with your head, there you went.
There was nothing, you had no rights.
You were property.
You belonged to whoever had the most gunpowder.
But when our founding fathers decided that they were going to set this country up and
wrote the Declaration of Independence, they recognized in essence that we were all created
by our creator and endowed with inalienable human rights.
Among them, life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness.
For the first time, they gave each of us our sovereignty.
For this was the first time any ruling party had ever conceded that the individual was
a sovereign thing.
And they wrote the Constitution to try to instill the legal system to protect it.
And since that time, it has been in great peril by people who seek to subvert it and
make slaves of us to their will.
And believe you me, the man ain't racist.
He doesn't care what color his slaves are.
And the whole idea of having piss in the cup to hold a job in America is anathema to what
America itself was built on.
I've been at this, I was 24 years old and a milkman in 1971 when I decided I was grist
for the mill.
I was going to end up in prison or dead at an early age because I didn't understand the
system.
And as long as I was ignorant of the system, I was going to be a pawn in their game.
So I decided I had to learn the system.
And the best way to do that was to go to college and become an attorney.
And if I was going to do that and put in all that work, I might as well become governor
of Kentucky and change the marijuana laws and try to lift Kentucky back into prosperity.
We were the world's largest producer of cannabis for over 100 years.
We called it hemp.
You know, people said, what's the difference, Gatewood?
And I said, well, you know, hemp and marijuana are both cannabis in the same way that Danny
DeVito and Dennis Rodman are both adult males.
You know, but Kentucky was the world's largest producer, so we ought to return to it and
let our farmers back into the niche of producing energy to solve our energy problems instead
of giving all this marijuana, giving all this money over to the oil-producing countries.
You know, we calculated that if you could plant 7 percent of the U.S. agricultural land
in hemp, you wouldn't have to import another drop of oil.
But, you know, what's happened is a great synthetic subversion where those people who
make synthetic products have used the criminal law to criminalize farmers from producing
competitive natural products in both petrochemicals and pharmaceuticals.
And a great deal of our problems today could be directly associated to the people I refer
to as the petrochemical, pharmaceutical, military, industrial, transnational, corporate, fascist,
elite son of a bitches who have never said a pledge of allegiance to the flag of the
United States of America or to the republic for which it stands.
They're not warm and fuzzy about us or our children or grandchildren, and they see the
Constitution and the Bill of Rights as impediments to the implementation of a new world order
and a global economy.
And that's just where it's at.
You know, they want to flatten the world to make us all a global economy and to erase
national boundaries, but, you know, they can't afford to give every other human being on
earth the same constitutional privileges and rights that we enjoy in recognition as
sovereign human beings, so they're going to have to take ours away from us in order to
make us a flat earth.
I ain't going down without a fight.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So in 1983, like I said, I started my political campaign.
I got up, I started getting up every day in 1971, so I've been at it 40 years, and I've
run for governor several times, so I have a pretty good idea about what politics is
all about.
I gave the keynote address at the Reform Party National Convention back in 2000, and, you
know, so I've been there.
I've observed the politics, and after 40 years, I'd have to be pretty dumb not to have come
up with at least one good idea in those 40 years.
And I do tell the folks in this race right here, if I was ever going to lie to you, I
would already have been elected.
But, you know.
But descriptively speaking, Kentucky suffers from electile dysfunction.
What's happened is that both parties have their horns locked up like two bull elk fighting
over territory while the business of the people lays dead in the dust.
And neither party can produce a candidate who can disengage from the partisanship long
enough to work with the other side to get the job done.
And my running mate, who's a beautiful lady with six kids, two of them adopted, one of
her natural children has special needs, so she knows where the rubber meets the road
in those women and children's issues.
She and I are running totally as independents, no party affiliation whatsoever.
We don't want one.
We don't want all that baggage.
We don't want all that corruption.
We don't.
Really, we don't want it.
We don't want it.
You keep it.
That's just a monster to be fed once you get to the trough.
You know, we're going to start returning any of the surpluses of the state back over to the people.
But the first thing I'm going to do when I'm governor of the state of Kentucky, the minute I'm sworn
into oath is I'm going to have the commander of the National Guard land a helicopter in front of
the Capitol and bring me the keys to it.
And that's the last time any one of those frigging military helicopters is going to hover over
the fields and gardens of the people of the state of Kentucky.
This is America, not Afghanistan, and we're not an occupied territory,
and we're not going to treat our citizens like we are when in the state of Kentucky.
They got a pretty good idea that I mean it.
I wrote an autobiography here not too long ago that I gave a copy to Madeline,
and this is my autobiography.
It's called The Last Free Man in America Meets the Synthetic Subversion,
and that's me holding an M60 on the front cover of it.
And so they said, Galbraith, why are you holding that M60?
I said, because I'm a serious man.
You can get that, order one off of my website at gatewood.com.
But we have a hell of a chance of winning in November.
Our primaries are this coming Tuesday.
We're not in the primary.
We're totally independent.
And what interest you may have in how I do out there in that race is that we're going to take a giant leap.
We're going to take a giant leap.
We're going to go all the way to find out whether America still has a pulse or not,
and we're going to do it constitutionally.
The United States Constitution does not provide you the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
That's in the independence, Declaration of Independence.
That's not law.
So you don't officially have a right to that under federal law.
But Kentucky has a constitution also, just like all the other states do.
But it just so happens that Kentucky's constitution is the most pro-people constitution ever written.
That our people back in 1890 got so tired of being raped by the railroad companies
that they wrote a constitution that protected the people
and kept corporations from being running roughshod over everybody.
And even now that's beginning to fracture as our legislature keeps selling out to the folks that I call the petrochemical,
pharmaceutical, military, industrial, transnational, corporate, fascist, elite son of a bitches.
So what's going to happen is that the very first section of Kentucky's constitution
ensures that its citizens constitutionally are endowed with the right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
That's the number one section in Kentucky constitution,
so I feel obliged to make it the number one basis of policy for my relationship of government to the people in the state of Kentucky.
I'm going to get it off of their backs.
I'm going to take it out of the bedrooms and the bloodstreams and the brains and the bladders
and the billfolds and the back pockets and the Internet bulletin boards
and put them back in the little box where they belong.
I'm going to make government not a burden on the people.
I think it's the role of government to uplift, enlighten, educate, and endow people
with an appreciation of life, appreciation of the social compact, their civil duties,
their civil responsibilities, and make sure that we address them as sovereign human beings,
capable of making their own decisions.
And we're going to get medical marijuana in the hands of every sick and dying person in the state of Kentucky.
No permit needed.
I'm going to take it out of the hands of the 10 and 13 and 14-year-olds who are doing it just for kicks.
We're going to give them over to the old age homes, to all the old folks in the old age homes.
Hey, increase the appetite, put a smile on their face,
and think about the increased vegetation by the young folks.
Hey, let's go see Dad.
So if we can do this, if I can win this, it's going to be bigger than Ventura.
It will be next to Obama's election because there was an independent elected governor of Rhode Island in this past one,
the first one elected in 150 years, but he had been a state senator.
He had been a U.S. senator from the state of Rhode Island, so he had that base.
Okay, we'll be the first truly independent ever to win governor in the state of Kentucky in the last 150 years.
So we have my ñ I've got a website called Gatewood.com.
I'm a criminal defense attorney out in Lexington.
I handle criminal cases, and I'd like to represent a lottery winner or two, if any of you all know who you are out there.
If you're a big dog and you're hanging out on millions, here's a good place to give me a fee
and let me get on down the road on this campaign.
If you can drop something, five, 10, 20 bucks in on Gatewood.com.
I appreciate you doing it.
I'll send you a copy of my book.
An ex-governor of the state of Kentucky said it was the best statement of freedom in America that he'd ever read.
On the same day, an 18-year-old girl from the middle of the mountains called me, said she'd read it twice the previous week,
and it was the number one seller at Joseph Beth, the top independent bookstore in America for 11 weeks.
So I left out 100 percent of the sex and 80 percent of the drugs, but it's still a kick-ass read.
Folks, I'm out here at the bequest of and the generosity of somebody that I'd certainly like to give a shout-out to,
and that's Mr. Paul Stanford here in August.
He was swell enough to let me appear on his program last night,
and we're going to throw a little fundraiser over to Clinton at the Clinton Street Theater, what time?
At 3.30, so 5.30.
So, you know, I understand you all got some business to conduct at the meeting,
and I just hope I didn't take up too much of your time.
Gatewood, Galbraith, I appreciate you all's time and attention.
Thank you so much.
