We're going to now run a film clip from Oregon Normal's
Medical Cannabis Award panel.
I believe this one has some physicians.
We'll discuss it when we come back.
Hope you enjoy the clip.
The psychiatry that I used to know
does not exist anymore, which is talk therapy.
And it's all bill pushing.
It's all medication.
And to that end, we really don't know what is happening.
And this extends not just to psychotropics,
but I'm going to read you a short letter to John A.
Kitzhaber, MD, Director, Center for Evidence-Based Policy,
Oregon Health and Science University.
And this is who I suggest if you want to contact
to embarrass a little bit.
On February 25, I have the view of panel presentation
by your organization on C-SPAN on the cost-benefit study
of different pharmaceuticals contracted by AARP.
The sum total of that panel was they could not
develop any cost-benefits analyses,
because in analyzing the pharmaceutical literature,
they discovered it was all promotional rather than
objective and scientific.
So everything masquerading as science is not.
So based upon California clinical experience
with a range of chronic conditions,
our findings indicated significant advantage
over other pharmaceuticals conventionally utilized
because of improved quality of life
and fewer adverse effects.
Consequently, we request the opportunity
to discuss our findings with you attached
as a list of conditions.
And guess what the response was?
So I'm glad this is going over cable TV in the Portland area.
And hopefully, somebody out there in the viewing audience
can give the center a call and ask
them to include cannabis in their studies,
and especially about the mental health issue.
I would be fascinated to hear the response,
but I won't hold my breath.
May I interject just very briefly
that obviously, there's so much reduction in pharmaceutical use
that it's an enormous opening for research, which
unfortunately, physicians who are taking care of patients
in a primary care setting, they don't
seem to be monitoring the change in prescription drug
patterns of their patients before and after they
become members of the OMMP.
And it's remarkable because these patients are reduced.
They're basically reducing opiates tremendously.
And actually, there's research I'm
sure you guys are all aware of about the synergistic effects
of the receptor effects of opiates and cannabinoids
where they basically are hitchhiking with each other
and much smaller doses of both medications
create the same benefit with, of course, much less side effects.
These are really remarkable findings.
And I really regret that there aren't physicians
who are just monitoring the reduction in the prescription
patterns of their patients.
If they doubt that cannabis is useful,
I would encourage them to please do so.
And just a before and after evaluation
of their prescriptions will show how much reduction
or how much change there is.
But it's really a lost opportunity.
There's a lot of possibilities.
You know what you just said, you think that's new?
If you read marijuana medical papers,
in the Ohio State Medical Society meeting
on cannabis in 1860, a Dr. Frumdiller from Ohio
reported that using an alternative,
alternating courses of opiates and cannabis
for treating chronic conditions reduced dependence on opiates.
1859 this was written.
And so this is something new.
Now we're talking about the takeover by Big Farm
and ruining policy through their special interest money.
And furthermore, the fact that this whole system, this mot,
can I use my favorite phrase?
Oh, why not?
Monomolecular mercantile madness.
This is all patent office driven.
If you look back to what it was before the single molecule
ascended to its role in current commercial medicine,
you'll see that it's all secondary to what
can get patented.
And then they claim that the newly patented material
is increasingly better, blah, blah, blah.
But then you see what's happened to the literature.
It's gotten thoroughly corrupted and perverted
so that you don't know what's happening.
Here we have now a drug seeking, drug hungering public
convinced that they need all sorts of combinations
of patentable materials.
And it's really sickening our society.
And when they started directly advertising
to the public for psychotropics especially,
ask your doctor, social anxiety disorder,
all these kinds of influences to influence you.
And they're bottom line.
Any other questions?
OK, that was Dr. Todd Micaria, who
wrote medical marijuana papers back in the early 80s.
And directly to his left, that was an RN
by the name of Ed Glick.
To his right was Dr. Rick Baer, the chief petitioner
on Oregon's ballot measure 67, the medical marijuana
law that passed in 1998.
Then the other fellow off to the side
there that wasn't talking much in that clip
was Dr. Cohen from Oregon, another physician who
helps medical marijuana patients.
How are you doing, Don?
I'm great, Paul.
It's good to see you.
Don DuPay here is currently a social worker,
but he's also a retired Portland police detective
with, what is it, a 17?
