You know, marijuana is the most important plant on this planet.
It is.
It produces more fuel from its seed, more fiber from its stem, more medicine from its flowers and leaves than any other plant.
And that's the reason it was made illegal.
It was really the petrochemical, pharmaceutical, military, industrial, transnational, corporate, elite, fascist, sons of a bitches
who made up the marijuana myth.
They said there's this thing out there, marijuana, that causes us to go crazy and kill our family and friends.
What could be more bullshit than that?
You know?
Now you can drive your car on pure hemp seed oil and that's the reason it is illegal.
So, you know, finally we've got some limited legalization here in Washington.
You can't just possess an ounce, but you can't grow your own.
That's not good enough.
We need to be able to grow our own plant.
We need to grow the plant that is the most productive plant on the planet.
Maybe the plant from which agriculture was founded.
It might be the oldest crop.
All archaeologists agree it's been cultivated at least 12,000 years.
You should be able to grow it.
Register to vote.
There's an I-739 petition booth right over there.
We need you to sign those petitions.
Even better, get some petitions and get other Washington registered voters to sign them
because that's how we make change.
If it wasn't for that, they'd be throwing us all in jail still.
We don't want that to happen, obviously.
You know, the legislature passed a bad law, 5052, to curtail medical marijuana.
But I have a series of clinics where we have helped over 100,000 Washington residents
get their medical marijuana permit.
Over a quarter million Americans so far.
And those people are able to legally possess, use, and grow marijuana.
But the state has curtailed that.
They're saying you can grow 50 plants until next July, but next July you can only grow four.
Here's a petition right here.
So we urge you guys to get these petitions, sign them, and pass them around
because that's the only way we're going to be able to change these laws.
And contact your legislature because that's another way to have input.
Anyway, you know, 420 is coming up.
This is probably the most fun place to be at that special time.
So, hey, it's only about 15 minutes away.
So stay tuned for that.
But I just want to thank you all for coming out here, support the Seattle Hip Fest,
fight for the changes that need to happen, and restore hip!
