Thank you very much, Tom Wierschafter. Always been inspiring for us.
Yes, I wanted to first give a little, a short two phrases of each country,
as far as we know, that's going on now.
First, to mention, like, Argentina is the last in the list.
If we can mention Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay and Chile,
Argentina will be the last concerning the change of the law.
We still have the same law since 1989,
which is totally a provisionist law, right?
Then, if we start from who is more advanced,
we have to say Uruguay. Uruguay, in December 2013,
legalized cannabis for over the counter, the sales and production.
They had three legs of production and sales,
which only two of them are currently available,
which is the self-cultivation, the home-grown
and the creation of social clubs between 15 and 45 persons.
That's what is actually working now.
The other part of the plan, which was to give,
through licensed growers, through the pharmacies,
that has not been implemented yet.
So far, Uruguay is a step ahead of the rest of the countries.
And second, we can say Chile, because Chile had big advances
since improving themselves.
Since one year ago, the government authorized medical gardens
for 200 patients. That was the first pilot project.
And it went through, and now the same people are going forward.
That's Ana Maria Gazmurri and Daya Foundation in Chile.
And also, the Congress is discussing six plants per residence
and up to half a kilo of dry buds in your property.
That will be legal. It's not legal yet,
but they are discussing these terms in the Congress right now.
I mentioned Brazil. Brazil has a really repressive law,
but this last year, there was a Supreme Court decision
that allows parents that have kids with epilepsy
to import CBD oil from here, from California.
So that was an advance too.
And we got here to the States two weeks ago.
Since these two weeks, we received the news that in Argentina,
one of our medical patients that was sued in the city hall
for allowing him to grow his own plants,
finally, the Supreme Court gave the favor to the patient,
and now the government has to allow him to plant or give him the medicine.
Okay, so basically,
this is what's going on objectively concerning the laws.
They have not changed. I mean, they changed.
Uruguay changed. Chile is changing.
And we think that Argentina must change too.
You know, Argentina is the country that has more home growers,
cultivators. There's a big number of them.
We created a movement of these people.
We had, the last March, we had 150,000 personas.
I'm talking about the global marijuana march.
Things are advancing.
The message here that we wanted to give to all the people of Seattle Hempfest
is that the changes are made by people of,
we say in Spanish, bone and blood.
Real people, real human beings.
And some people are not really conscious of this.
And I think that you guys are ahead with all this,
and you've got to put together all that conscience
that you created all these years.
Because I believe that when you don't have the law change in one state,
you want to change the law from that state,
and there is a group of people willing to do that,
you've got to go through all the process, right?
Get the signatures, go to the ballot, and then win,
and then make the changes.
Well, that creates conscience around what you're doing.
And I think that's the good part of it.
And we're creating a lot of conscience in this world change of cannabis.
Thank you very much.
I want to say thank you for inviting me here.
We, in Argentina, 30 years, we came back to democracy.
It's a representative democracy.
The elite that controls the world and rules also rules our country.
They have imposed military dictations and economic policies.
Among those, the prohibition of the war on drugs and the war.
People are manifesting, they're demonstrating for,
at the beginning, for self-cultivation.
And since we have a representative democracy,
people have to gain them in the streets.
So, it's important what you do here with the ballots,
with this representative democracy.
It's different than ours.
It's important what you do here, the impact for the rest of us.
And every time there is a state here that legalizes or normalizes
the use of cannabis,
that subjects the other peoples to a drug policy.
That's why we have to generate conscience and information.
And we're...
Right now, we're fighting, we want to have representation.
In our country, we can't have cannabis organizations,
because the law prohibits everything.
So, everything is from the people to the representatives.
Everything comes from the people to the representatives.
That's the big change we're making,
conscious of the citizens for the state.
Thank you.
