Greetings everyone and thank you for coming out here. The weather I think is a sign that we're
divinely supported and although we're few in number here there will be thousands of people
that will watch these recordings and this will go out all over the United States to support the
future medical programs that are sure to happen. My name is Thomas Pamelia. I'm a citizen journalist.
I'm a writer and a patient advocate. The altruistic strain hunters in the 710 speakeasy.
I would like to begin my remarks with three quotes. These quotes have a common theme and
this theme is central to our mission in being here today to speak to our state representatives.
These quotes come from history and it is history that we must observe and be students of or we
risk to lose everything including the great body of knowledge we've evolved as a species to create.
We are one. Our suffering is shared and the people behind these quotes are trying to get us to
realize this. Be kind for everyone you meet is fighting a harder battle. Plato. I would rather
make mistakes in kindness and compassion than work miracles in unkindness and hardness. Mother Teresa.
If you want others to be happy practice compassion. If you want to be happy
practice compassion. This was said by the Dalai Lama.
Compassion is a facet of respect. Respect is a facet of acceptance. Acceptance is needed to live in a pluralistic society where individual choices are respected assuming they do not infringe on others.
Compassion is what is missing from this trajectory of onerous regulation and overreaching bureaucracy
being enacted on the backs of the sick and most impoverished. We have been backed into a corner
and can't help but rally here and bring our hearts and voices into a unified chorus that
allows our adversity to be observed and our opinions to be acknowledged. For those of us
who voted for Proposition 91 we would like it enacted as we voted for it. For those who did
not vote for Proposition 91 I'm sure you also would like the rule of law upheld.
All cannabis is created equal. All humans are created equal. We cannot be divisive and expect to exemplify compassion as individuals or as a collective culture.
Not a single human can tell the difference between medical and recreational cannabis
and it is our internal physiological receptor system that guarantees our right to this plant
and its inherent safety and non-toxicity. Not a single human has been harmed directly by cannabis
in the history of humankind. Let us remember now to be students of history.
There is a vacuum of leadership within our OMMP program. There is a vacuum of compassion and a
vacuum of usefulness. Patient dissatisfaction and disenfranchisement is at an all-time high
and this leads to the grand question.
Where exactly is the patient advocacy and leadership within our state program?
For this reason I would like to work with OHA to draft a patient bill of rights that guarantees
a fundamental access and respect for individuals enrolled in our state OMMP program. For this
reason I would like to work with the OHA leadership to create a diplomatic patient
group who can take up roles to collaborate with the program administrators and the employees to
help usher in a new era of program efficiency and respect for patient privacy. State employees
are drug screened for THC and this alienates every single person standing in front of me to hear this.
Our program is overly expensive and completely inefficient. We lack fundamental communication
resources and our renewal process is archaic, redundant and offers no respect for housing and
tenant rights as well as chronic and congenital disorders. This current OMMP inefficiency and
provocative move for expansion originates from a fundamental lack of compassion on behalf of our
state representatives. The polarity of compassion is judgment. This notion of labeling humans as
patients or as users is divisive and judgmental and creates unrest and inequality and culminates
in the form of a sin tax. Let it be known here and now that the death of medical cannabis will be the
official rebirth of sacramental cannabis protected by our first amendment. The body of us being
familiar with being forced underground will absolve our patient and caregiver status and
renew our citizen status where our activity is preserved in our founding documents. If nature
is illegal, freedom cannot exist. Thank you and bless be.
