Nice to be back in Portland doing this particular event.
We go back a long ways doing things together in this state, don't we?
Yes, we do, girl.
For many, many years, I lived very far from here down in Florida,
and you invited me to come and speak to your legislators.
And you invited me to come and do some television shows with you, Paul.
And you invited me to come and get some signatures with you, John Sager.
And there are so many others that I'm not even going to start the list,
but the one thing I've learned is that people in Oregon are the coolest of them all.
And there are beautiful, cool people all over the planet.
And the more you know about cannabis, the more you're going to join them
and understand who you really are.
You're the largest minority in the United States.
There is no segment of our society
no religion, no color, no creed, no financial background that escapes it.
We all love cannabis.
And those who never smoke cannabis, well, you got to feel a little sorry for them
because they're not in connection with their inner being for the simple reason
that there are receptors in their brain that have not been opened
for them to understand who they really are.
But the more you know about this ancient, tribal herb,
the one that was given to you on the third day,
if you go by the Bible, that's the one, the Judea one we accept mostly in the United States.
On the third day, he said, behold, I've given unto you every seed bearing herb.
Remember, everyone, not just the ones that DEA likes.
You are a part of something that goes beyond time.
And marijuana has always been in your system,
even if you never took a puff,
because it's been in your system generation after generation after generation.
And the fact that too many people don't have it in their system now,
I suspect contributes a great deal to all the immune deficiencies
that are striking so many different parts of our bodies.
I think you all know that I receive,
I smoke 10 joints a day and Uncle Sam is my supplier.
You know that, right?
Five of us in the entire country who actually are walking around with a prescription,
not a recommendation.
You all keep saying your doctors are prescribing marijuana,
and all the federal government will come very hard on them if they attempt to do such a thing.
But there are five doctors that have been approved by FDA, DEA, and NIDA
to write prescriptions for us.
You know why?
Because we were forced to exercise our instincts of self-preservation.
Are you not doing the same if you're taking care of your own health?
Are you not doing the same if you're taking care of your illness?
Because we understood that a man-made law could not possibly
wipe away our common sense when it came to survival
or to maintain the lovely, the beautiful gift of sight that I am blessed with.
However limited it may be, I see stars and I see the colors you wear.
And when you're close to me, I see you smiling and I know we're working together.
And this, sir, brought me to you.
Because the person I was before I smoked it or used it is someone I don't even recognize.
I don't know.
I was a different person growing with a different set of values.
One that said, you know, you get the bigger house, you get the nicest clothes,
you look really sharp all the time and all this kind of crazy stuff.
And then you realize one day that the thing you need most is your health.
In my case, my sight.
And there is a crazy law that some crazy people have created that says
I don't have the right to self-preservation or to maintain my sight.
Well, I argued that in court because I knew no government had the right to demand blindness
out of me or you or the kind of suffering this prohibition is maintaining.
Yeah, I fought the law and I won.
I fought the law and I won.
Do we gotta fight it?
I am not any freer than you are.
As long as you're not free, I'm not.
I'm glad that I was a part of all of these different organizations that are here in Oregon.
That when it comes time to vote for something important, you put your personal differences
aside and you come to the plate and we do work together and we do make things happen.
Ah, well, there went the hat.
We'll throw off the hat to all these wonderful people, to all of you in Oregon.
We hope to help you and to support all your efforts.
Yes, John, I definitely want to see dispensaries where patients can enjoy and relax with each
other's company while they medicate.
And yes, I do want to sign your petition, Madeline.
I think a national petition is well overdue.
I worked on one in the 90s and didn't quite get it to the Justice Department like I wanted.
Well, I actually did, but I didn't leave everybody's addresses there.
Anyway, I want to thank you for letting me do this.
Take care of yourselves.
Make cannabis legal in every way you possibly can.
Educate your legislators to the fact that when a man-made law is contrary to the law of nature,
it has no validity anytime, anywhere, under any circumstances.
And let the true spirit of love always be your guiding light.
Thank you.
