First of all, we have a box of frosted flakes with Michael Phelps, the world's fastest swimmer,
who says on the back, Michael rules with eight for eight. And obviously marijuana didn't slow
him down. I understand that he came out and won another meet here a couple weeks ago and
didn't test positive for marijuana and the urine tests associated with there.
So you must know that he has to wait a month or so after he smoked.
But it obviously didn't slow him down. And he seems to be, it seems like he grew gills.
He does. Now, right next to it, we have a cannabis extract. This is from Eli Lilly,
another drug company that's still in existence today. It's an extract number 96. Eli Lilly had
about 15 different cannabis preparations. And this is just one right next door. We have up
John cannabis extract, a cannabis tincture. Both of these were liquid extracts of cannabis.
Now this one is from Merrill drug company, which is merged with another company. This
was a powdered extract of cannabis. This was powdered hash or Keefe. And this bottle held
an ounce, one ounce. It says here on the back, one ounce of powdered extract of cannabis Indica.
Nice. This one's really old. It's circa 1870. The, uh, it's got what they call label under
glass or lug lug stands for label under glass. They used to put the label on and then put the
glass on top. And so, uh, this is a cannabis extract circa 1870, right next door. We have a
rare combination of an unopened cannabis, a container from specific medicines and an empty
bottle. So we know they're inside this, there is a full bottle and it's a Lloyd brothers, uh, extract
of cannabis. Uh, it's pretty nifty having a completely unopened and still sealed one here.
Then right next door, we have a larger dug bottle. These are dug out of the ground. And this one has
it embossed right on the surface of the glass. It's Dr. H James cannabis Indica, uh, extract,
from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. And it's a embossed right on the surface of the glass
says right here on this, uh, second line, cannabis Indica, cannabis Indica, those of you,
which HDTV you get to benefit tonight. Then right next door, uh, Linden's balsam. We have a couple
of different balsam medicines for coughs and colds. This one has many languages on the back,
everything from Norwegian and finished, uh, Spanish and Portuguese and Hungarian. Uh,
the insert comes with 11 different, uh, things and there's a full unopened bottle of this cough
medicine right next to it is Dr. Bliss's bliss native balsam for coughs and colds, uh, contains
one half of a gram of cannabis Indica to each ounce, uh, along with other valuable ingredients.
Next we have a colic remedy, colic for spasmodic and flatulent colic. It says on the back,
that's something you want to be around. This one is a, uh, from, from Costco drugs of Lincoln,
Nebraska. It's a glycerin phosphates with cannabis and less than, it sounds like it was pretty good.
I think this was, this was something these guys were way ahead of their time. Now this is the one
that is always right up here at the top. The little label says chocolate coated. We love that
in down here. Come from one. How many, this held 500 compressed tablets of cannabis Indica and
hopium, opiate, chocolate coated cannabis, Indica and opium pills. Oh, that was something that just
knocked you out there. That beats M&Ms any day. Yeah. I wonder if it melted in your mouth or in
your hand. And then next we have a modern product for Manitoba harvest, hold hemp seeds,
hemp seed nut, shelled hemp seeds. It tastes a lot like, uh, walnuts and, and kind of a cross
between walnuts and cashews. So this is a very healthy product that has all your essential fatty
acids, Omega three, six, and nine, and a perfect balance for human health. So this will keep you
alive when you can't eat anything else. Bag of that will keep you alive with complete protein.
