Industrial use, you know, I don't see any harm.
There's a lot of good uses for it.
People fight it because of the, well, from the back balling of it
through William Randall Person's paper industry.
I guess that's where it first started.
But I don't mind the industrial use.
I mean, find rope, find clothing, find paper, whatever.
Anything you can make out of hydrocarbon, you can make out of a carbohydrate.
There's no reason to be burning fossil fuels when we don't have to.
If you can grow hemp properly,
it is a material that contributes to sustainable agriculture
because the tonnage of carbon removed from the air in the form of carbon dioxide
is high relative to the amount of carbon removed from the air by other plants, like trees.
This is a modified 1983 Mercedes-Benz turbo diesel,
and the only thing that we've done differently is put lots of wonderful stickers on the car
and put hemp biodiesel fuel in the tank.
That's it. No modifications.
Also, Mercedes-Benz right now has a Model 420 M Series, believe it or not.
That's got hemp composite plastic dashboards and door paneling.
And they're discovering that it biodegrades.
When it breaks upon impact, it doesn't break sharply, so it's less likely to injure a person.
We've been on the road for six weeks now.
We've got 6,000 miles on the car. That's totally on hemp.
And we've got another six weeks to go roughly before we end our tour in D.C.
There's a lot of problems that have to be solved, and we can't solve a number of them.
Its fiber strength is up on the order of 5,000 psi.
So you get a fiber strength that's equivalent to some of the toughest, strongest woods.
When you process hemp fiber using a hydrogen peroxide process,
you can control the pollution more effectively than using chlorine processing, which is used for paper.
The hemp that comes out of this process can be made into oriented strand boards.
Oriented strand board is the largest growing sector of the materials industry for construction.
Oriented strand board can be made with hemp fiber having a modulus of 6,000 psi,
about twice the strength of ordinary particle boards.
This makes hemp fiber bonded with its own natural binders,
a suitable material for underlayment, sheathing, and roofing substrate in houses and housing construction.
