Kentucky was the world's largest producer of hemp for over 100 years.
It was our largest cash crop for more than a century.
And imagine that, a state whose largest cash crop was hemp.
And I'm sure that the smoking aspect
of it was also well represented.
People
of course in the early 1900s it went down
and they legalized it in 1937.
Kentucky should be the place where cannabis
is returned as a cash crop in the state of Kentucky. And I started out
a long time ago to try to make that a reality. I'm a fourth generation
Kentuckian. I was 24 years old in a milk land in 1971.
When I decided I was grist for the mill.
That I was going to end up in prison or in jail or dead at an early age.
So I decided that I better learn the system.
Or I was just going to be a victim of it. So I decided I was going to go
to college and become an attorney. And while I was at it, if I was going
to put that much into it, I might as well become governor and change the marijuana laws
in the state of Kentucky and quit treating our people like we're in occupied territory.
And take the government out
of the helicopters, out of the air that are hovering over
the fields and gardens of the people of the state of Kentucky and put marijuana into the hands
of as many sick and dying people in the state as I possibly could.
And that's what I started out to do 40 years ago and I've gotten up every day since that time to do that.
I've run for office in the state of Kentucky on several occasions. This is my
fifth time for governor. I've also run for
agricultural commissioner, attorney general, and congress twice.
I've polled some mighty impressive numbers. I won't bore you with them all.
But let me tell you that this time, we is the very best chance
that I've ever had to actually win the governor
of the state of Kentucky. Let me tell you what that would do to the
political landscape in the United States of America. That would be
phenomenal. There was an independent elected for the
first time in 150 years in Rhode Island last
political season. But he had been a U.S. state senator
out of that state, so he already had
a statewide basis to go independent with. My running mate and I
are totally independent. No party affiliation whatsoever. I've got
a lady running mate named Dee Riley who's phenomenal.
The mother of six, two adopted. One of her natural children has
special needs. She knows where the politics
hit the road about policies for women and children in the state.
She's smart as a tack, and we need more women in leadership
for all those in the state of Kentucky. I am running this time.
This is what I say. They say, Galbraith, you're a perennial candidate. That's what
Kentucky's got, perennial problems. If the people in Kentucky
who had beaten me had actually fixed the problems, I wouldn't have had to run again.
But they didn't, and they haven't, and they can't. Because neither party
can produce a candidate who can disengage from the partisanship long enough to work the other side
to get the job done. And the leadership of the parties,
both the major parties in the state of Kentucky, had their horns locked up like two bulls elk fighting over
territory while the business of the people lays dead in the dust.
So my running mate and I say that only an independent who doesn't care
who gets credit for doing what's right for the people of the state of Kentucky
stand the best chance of untying that Gordian knot and letting both parties operate
in a fashion that a lot of the well-intentioned membership
want to work. The beauty of it is we're not looking to
replace either party. We're not looking to throw the rascals out. We're not looking
for you to vote against your representative or senator
and we don't want you to renounce your family's party.
We're not asking you to do that. We're not asking you to vote for the dreaded other party.
We're asking you to vote for an independent who wants to work with you
to try to get the job done. And so
I've offered myself again this time and the difference is
there are several things. First of all is that
everybody's sick and tired of the gridlock in Kentucky.
As they say, I could accuse Kentucky of being the victim of electile dysfunction.
They just can't seem to get it right.
And so what we think is that we know
for a fact that we're already climbing in the polls.
I said last time
they polled us about six months ago at 5% and they said
what did you think? And I said that's great with me. I believe we'll be 10% by May
and 15 to 20% by September. We were at
13% in April. So we're moving on up.
We're really not spending any money. We don't have it to spend. But I've never
spent more than $20,000 on any campaign in the past. We've spent
$140,000 on this so far.
$90,000 of it is my money.
I practice law for a living. I live fee to fee.
But I smell it this time.
I smell it this time. That people are sick and tired of it.
I got endorsed by a union the other day and I said why
did you folks endorse me? They said because you've never lied to us, Gatewood.
I said well hell if I was going to lie to you I'd already been elected.
And people were understanding that. People were
cluing into that. So what does an election for Gatewood,
Galbraith and Kentucky mean for the people of the city of Portland and the people of
Oregon? I'll tell you what it means. For the first time
in my memory that I've ever heard, the people of
America are going to have a champion who believes it when the founding
fathers conferred sovereignty on us as human beings
when they said that every human being is endowed by their
creator with life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, certain inalienable rights.
And for the first time think about that.
Before the American Revolution came about we were all
property. We belonged to the local king or queen
or the local warlord or whoever possessed the most gump out in the valley.
You didn't have any inalienable rights. People didn't have any inalienable rights.
If the ruler said hey come in here off with their head, there you went.
There was nobody to intercede on your behalf.
But the founding fathers took
humankind out of the category of property and conferred on them
the concept of sovereign human beings.
Self-determinative, individualized,
worth something individually and something that
the government couldn't take away or mess with.
And they wrote a constitution.
Declaration of Independence didn't become law but the constitution they fashioned to try to
immortalize that was their attempt to write a set
of laws that was going to keep that project in mind.
So it was a human revolution, that conference of sovereignty on the individual.
And then they turned us loose. And with that kind of freedom
we've come to America and that's the way it was supposed to have started out and what we've
been trying to keep up. But that concept of individual sovereignty
is under great pressure today.
And the current generation is facing the greatest threat of all
of having the Bill of Rights just flat drawn out from underneath us.
In the nanny state thought
line of protecting us from ourselves.
But what it is, is absolute
assault on the privileges of the sovereign
human beings and sovereign citizens of the Constitution.
So the right to life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness
is not a law because it's not in the Constitution. But in the state of Kentucky
the very first section of the Constitution of the state of Kentucky
says that we are all possessed of inalienable
right to life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness. So I'm going to
reconstruct Kentucky's policy and Kentucky's government around that
thesis. And we're going to rediscover whether America
still has a pulse. We're going to try to become the template
of what freedom of the individual means in the state of Kentucky.
I believe we'll become a terrorist mecca. I believe
that people will come in from all around the country and the
globe to see what it's like to live free. And I'm not talking
about riots in the streets. I'm not talking about
people causing a tumult out in
public. I don't see that happening. I just think that the idea
that we're attempting it is going to bring in the right-minded people.
But we're going to try to spread it out. We're going to try to
rediscover the American Revolution. And we're going to do that by
putting the processes and the surpluses of
our form of government out to the people instead of special interests.
I know who those special interests are and I'm going to put a stop to it and the savings we're going to
put back into the hands of the people.
