I think that marijuana is the greatest gift from our mother earth, God, the creator, Gaia,
the greatest gift that our planet has given us. That hip can restore all of our energy needs,
or at least a large percentage of them. It can provide a huge resource in terms of food
and in fiber. The only reason we have marijuana prohibition is because it produces more fuel,
fiber, food, and medicine than any other plant. They created a misinformation campaign
to call it marijuana 75 years ago. So, you know, I'm glad I-502 passed, but it's really
just partial decriminalization. It's not legal for you to have a single marijuana plant,
but this is the most productive plant known to man. Not only is it the most productive plant,
it produces more fuel, over 300 gallons of oil per acre, more food, over six tons of
protein after you press the oil out of it, and more fiber, 35 to 40 tons of fiber per acre,
while at the same time restoring the soil with the leaves and other processes. It draws up
subsoil nutrients and makes it available in the next crop rotation. You know, until you can grow
your own cannabis, the law isn't good enough. So I urge you to register, to vote, get involved in
the political process, and take over. You know, back in the 60s, they had this saying,
Timothy Leary popularized it, was tune in, turn on, tune in, and drop out. We need to turn on,
tune in, and take over. This political system needs to change. You know, it's really the people
who brought us marijuana prohibition were the petrochemical, pharmaceutical, military, industrial,
transnational, corporate, elite, fascist sons of a bitches, and they're the ones who gave us this.
And when we can restore hemp to its rightful place in our economy, and we grow hemp without
regard to its THC content, because low THC hemp is really bullshit. It's all about not growing
the seed, because we need the seed to replace petrochemicals. So get involved in the political
process. Lobby for hemp. Talk to your political, you know, representatives, and run for office
yourself. Take over the process. That's what we have to do. So I urge you to do that. If you don't
want to run yourself, support somebody who does. But it's really about restoring power and control
to the people. Right now, all the money's flowing to these petrochemical giants. And when we take
over and can grow hemp for fuel again without regard to its THC content, but according to the
types of hemp that are most productive, that means instead of the money going into these Saudi
kings and Swiss bank accounts, it'll go to our farmers and into our pockets. And that'll change
the whole economic paradigm. They're keeping us down as long as they keep hemp down. So I urge
you to work hard to change the system. Don't accept this I-502 is the end. Marijuana needs to be cheap
and plentiful. Marijuana isn't bad for you. It's really good for us. You know, guns and tanks and
riot gas couldn't stop us from smoking grass. And we're going to keep at it. And we need to grow
the hemp. So I urge you to get active. Thanks for being involved out here. And help restore hemp.
Goodbye.
