Hello Portland! Wow, thanks for having me. I believe this is my third year speaking
and this summer marks the fourth year that my daughter is in remission. Thank
you to cannabis oil. Cannabis oil provided my seven-year-old daughter who
was fighting cancer the chance to endure two and a half years of chemotherapy
without a single Tylenol. Not only that, she didn't lose a single pound and she
had a smile on her face the entire time she fought. She finished chemotherapy
about a year and a half ago and just recently we hit one year off treatment.
When we hit that mark, our oncologist came and told us that because McKayla
replaced brain radiation and high-dose chemotherapy with cannabis oil, she has
a lower chance of a secondary cancer relapse because of cannabis. Out of every
child that has ever endured leukemia treatment, my daughter has a lower chance
of a secondary cancer. That means ten years from now my child's not gonna have
a brain tumor from the radiation to treat her leukemia. And to me that is
extremely important that every child in our country has that option. So it's
great here that we have legal cannabis in the state of Oregon and we can smoke
our balls at home if we're 21 and older and our children can be on a medical
program, but that's not the way it is across our country and our fight is not
done. So please if there's anything I can urge everyone to do is to not think our
job is done because our job is nowhere near done. Our job is not done in our own
state and our job is not done across our country and across the world. If I can
urge you guys all to use your voices if you find out somebody has cancer, seizures,
epilepsy, Alzheimer's, any medical condition, urge them to get on the
medical marijuana program. Keep our medical marijuana program in Oregon. It
saves lives. If we get rid of it my daughter cannot have her oil. She has
been taking cannabis oil for four years. She has straight A's. She's doing amazing
in school. She's surpassing all of the expectations. She's just like a normal
child. And another importance is this is not just CBD that I'm talking about. My
daughter takes THC, psychoactive THC. There's something called a tolerance.
It's okay. I promise you morphine gets the kids higher than the cannabis oil
and I didn't have to experience morphine or addiction or any of that that comes
along with opioid pain medication that they treat children with in our state
and every other state. We need to shy away from opioid pain medicine. Thank you
for having me for another great year. Thank you for attending and marching and
uniting for this great cause.
