It's a beautiful day in Portland, Oregon. It's so great to be here.
Just to follow up on what Russ said, we are seeing such great, tremendous success all across the country.
Last week, St. Louis, Missouri decriminalized marijuana.
Springfield, Missouri decriminalized marijuana.
Maryland just legalized medical marijuana.
Rhode Island just legalized medical marijuana dispensaries.
Washington and Colorado legalizing marijuana for all adults.
Here in Oregon, we have a bill, 3371, that we hope to get referred into 2014 that will legalize marijuana for all adults, allow home-grow.
It's a great provision. I encourage you to check that out.
We got PTSD added as a qualifying condition under the Medical Marijuana Act.
That passed the Senate.
Reducing marijuana penalties from 29 grams to 112 grams, so it's no longer a felony, it's a misdemeanor.
That's likely to pass this year.
Oregon's likely to have an unprecedented success at the Oregon Legislature this year.
It's done because of activists. It's done because of people like you.
You call your legislator, and not more than call your legislator, you just tell your truth.
Everybody out here has a truth about cannabis and about how cannabis doesn't hinder your life.
It helps your medical condition. It makes you more creative.
It doesn't impair your life in any way.
You keep spreading that truth to person after person, your friends and family, and that message just spreads.
And the truth shall eventually set us all free.
So keep coming to marches like this.
Support Urban Design, 420 Radio, Normal, Oregon Green Free, National Green Friends.
Everybody out here is working for the cause.
Campaign for the restoration and regulation of hemp.
Support everybody.
Today, a day like this, we're united on May 4th.
And I also want to mention, if you've got a smartphone or anything, text NCC to 420420.
And a couple of you will win some free t-shirts today.
Free swag. So text NCC to 420420.
Get you some free t-shirts.
And on a beautiful day like this, may the 4th be with us all.
Thank you so much.
