Don't give up. You know, this struggle is built on hope.
You know, hemp is the hope for mankind. Cannabis is a big form of a hope for the future.
And there's not been a civil rights, human rights movement that has made it this far in America that hasn't won not long after.
We really are making things happen.
So my message would be, you know, keep going, ramp it up.
Let's go in. Let's go in for the kill right now because we're making progress.
Go in for the heal.
I think that nationally the issue of legalizing marijuana is at a tipping point.
I think that it's going to happen in the next several years.
But I think everybody needs to redouble their efforts on making this happen, on actually making it, pushing it over the line.
In spite of all the advances that have been made, we're still today arresting as many people as we've ever arrested,
which is 1.8 million people a year in this country.
We have an incarceration rate in this country among developed countries that is four times the per capita incarceration rate of number two, which is New Zealand.
That's crazy. That's insane.
And what's the definition of insanity?
Doing the same thing over and over and over again, expecting different results?
Let's legalize marijuana.
Let's start looking at the other drugs from a health standpoint rather than a criminal justice standpoint.
I would say come together. Come together right now and free the weed.
That's the remix. That's the remix.
I just got to, like I always say, you know, everybody got to be more educated, you know, go out there, speak your mind.
You know, people they don't know, let them know.
You know, not everybody knows exactly what's going on right here.
You know what I'm saying? People think we're coming together just to smoke.
And, you know, yeah, we're here to have a good time, but we're here to educate also, you know, to let you know that what hemp can do for us,
what medical marijuana can do for their patients.
And also, you know, just go ahead.
I go out there, free your mind, open it up and let people know and educate, you know, educate yourself and others, you know,
because like I said, other people don't know what we're doing here.
Some people literally like, I mean, they all, everybody knows about hemp and marijuana or medical marijuana.
I hate to tell you, no, they don't.
I've traveled to Chicago, I've traveled to New York, South Carolina.
When I show them footage of stuff that we do, that we come perform and do for the cause, they absolutely freak out.
There's no police around. You're not being arrested.
What's going on? They're smoking weed.
You know, it's crazy, but a lot of people aren't educated and we want to educate the people.
I'm not the, I didn't, believe it or not, I didn't graduate from high school.
And look, I still learn every day of my life.
Every day I learned something every day.
So if I could grab that little bit of stuff that I learned and tell somebody else about it, that's all we're going to do.
And that's how I say it, you know, with our music, we could serve the masses.
And like they said, no matter what, it doesn't, it just never ceases to, how do you call it, to come together and always say that the children are our future.
That's why I want to, I'm not talking about like real babies.
When you feel me, teenagers that are coming up, starting to experiment, it's to educate them and let them know about hemp and how hemp can really save the world.
May Jack, Jack care, rest in peace. I love you, dog.
Arm yourself with every ounce of knowledge that you could possibly retain.
You know, go forward facing, I hate to say the word enemy because really they're only an enemy if they truly know what's right and do the wrong thing.
You know, but educate your friends, educate your foe.
And in return, the world will follow.
I think that it has the, it's not just about helping patients.
It's not just about helping people who have sicknesses.
It's about, it's also putting, you know, it could put farmers back on their land.
And I think that's a, there's so many reasons that it should be legal that I don't know where to begin.
Get active, you know, participate in any way that you can.
You have some skill you have, you can bring to this movement one way or the other.
You don't have to have money. You don't even have to have, you know, a high school education.
It really doesn't matter. Bring whatever skills you have to the table and put them forward to move this movement forward because it's the only way we're going to get anywhere.
And even growing, even cultivation, that's part of it. It's a political act.
It's just as good as standing on the stage and speaking from the stage.
Just do it from the heart. Don't do it with the motivation of greed and money.
Do it with the motivation of creating better medicine, better cannabis, you know, and stick to variety.
Don't get bogged down in one strain, you know.
Explore and enhance your life with the beauty of all of the different experiences that you can get from cannabis.
As it becomes, people become aware of the fact that Reef or Madness was just a bunch of crap.
And it's an extremely useful drug.
And it's been medically documented that it's good for about 200 different medical conditions other than the first nine or so that were, what shall I say, make patients eligible in the state of Oregon.
I have heard from many people, doctor, you have saved my life.
And I think one of my poster boy patients was a marine helicopter pilot in Vietnam.
He was shot down seven times.
The last time he was in the hospital, 31 months getting taken care of.
And he was on something like 400 milligrams of morphine a day, which is enough to stop an elephant.
And the VA would not let him use marijuana.
So he told him to go fly a kite.
And he came to me and he told me several times, doctor, you saved my life.
He was able to drop the morphine down to 60 milligrams a day because he was not able to use marijuana.
I think medical marijuana's time has come.
But we also always have to be careful.
There's always pushback.
And we have to be ready for it.
And we have to be prepared.
Know what we want to say.
Know what we want to convey to the general public.
Are they not afraid of us or what we're up to?
I really think we've got more Americans who have smoked marijuana than who have not.
We show a majority of the Americans now favor the idea that we shouldn't treat smokers like criminals.
So I think we're awfully close to a tipping point.
It may come in November if California passes that initiative to legalize and regulate and tax marijuana.
But that is truly the beginning of the end because other states will follow very quickly.
Get out there and put these efforts into hemp.
The same energy and effort that was put into medical marijuana by the marijuana people, THC people,
I think that same energy should be put into hemp.
I think by putting that energy into hemp it's more consistent because when we go for the medical marijuana, it's just for us.
When we go for the hemp, we're now repaying the earth because it's for the earth as well as for us because it's healthy for the earth.
We've used medical marijuana and wanted it because it's healthy for us.
Well, the same thing applies.
Hemp is healthy for the earth.
So I would like to see the medical marijuana put some of the same intensity and energy into now getting medicine for the earth that was used to get it for ourselves.
Yes, I agree.
I'd like to see hemp around the world.
I think that it could be solving a lot of the world's problems.
Well, this is what I'm saying.
A lot of people think this or that or have opinions about it.
What we're suggesting is go check out the facts about what can really be done with it.
Alright, I mean from food to clothes.
Go check out the facts.
See what can really be done with it because we've got to take it from being just an abstraction.
Hemp as an add-on.
If we're talking about global warming, climate change, all of these things we're discussing and talking about,
hemp has a tremendous impact on being able to help to balance what's happening.
So we're asking people to research, check it out, and if they're in agreement to act on it.
And if they're not in agreement, well then they're not in agreement.
Be yourself and take some time for marijuana.
I'm here for the weed, is what I always like to say.
Do some things to support it.
Talk to people about it.
Be an activist about it.
Go to city council meetings.
Support your homies.
Show up at court when somebody's got a court date.
Read West Coast Cannabis magazine, westcoastcannabis.com.
And hang out and do your best.
We're reaching the tipping point.
So if everybody could do a little more, what's the old phrase?
No one can do everything, but everybody can do something.
So if everybody could do just a little bit more, take an extra 15 minutes per day to pump it up, pow!
We're going to do it.
If you could say one thing to the marijuana community, what would it be?
Get active.
Short, but to the point.
I'd like to add, guys, let's write the president, let's follow the lead of this man
and make sure that all of our warriors come home because it's an unjust war.
We all know that.
My advice to the marijuana community is get together, support the legalization of both hemp and cannabis as one thing.
I know that there's a lot of like, okay, cannabis is good for this and hemp is good for this,
but it's the same plant, and the fact that there's any plant that is that useful,
that is considered illegal by any government is criminal.
And so wake up, people.
We've got to do it.
No one's going to do it for us.
So that's what I've got to say.
You really have to stand up and do what's right.
And I really want to thank from the bottom of my heart those activists that go beyond the call of duty
because we're pretty much all volunteers, you know,
and the folks that take the time to come to these events and to sing to the choir
and to teach the choir that they need to raise their voices and be heard.
You know, the activists that come out here are my heroes.
And if we don't stand up for what's right, no one's going to stand up for us.
So we have to do this ourselves.
So you really need to just do what's right.
Help someone that's sick.
This movement is going at a very fast pace right now.
I don't want the folks to forget about the patients.
Don't forget about us.
We spend too much time talking to each other.
We're selling to the convinced.
There's an element of our society that is the most powerful voting bloc, and that's the seniors.
They're my generation.
They're Woodstock.
They're smokers.
But they've been underground so long, they generally don't work for activism.
In South Florida, where I live, they have no conception of what's being done with medical marijuana.
And that's a petition we're trying to pass.
When I get home, I'm starting a silver tour.
I will go to the clubhouses at these hundreds of senior communities.
I've got a great PowerPoint show.
I've got videos.
And I'm taking a doctor or a nurse to each one to answer legitimate medical questions.
These people all vote.
They all have their congressman's phone number, and they're not afraid to call.
And it should go viral, because if they live in Golden Gates, they go to Golden Age to play cards,
and they go over there to Senior Village to play bingo.
And they need something to talk about.
And if you talk to them about marijuana and Alzheimer's, marijuana and cancer, marijuana and MS,
they have no clue.
But they're going to have.
You're doing it. It's happening.
You know, Mark's mission to plant the seeds of freedom and overgrow the government has taken place.
The roots are growing in the ground.
The plant is flourishing.
We're seeing things happen.
And it is possible.
And so you never give up, even though I, myself, am guilty of sometimes giving into despair
and feeling like, you know, it's impossible to stop this.
It keeps getting worse.
There's more prisons being built and all of the horrible things that happen.
Despite that, there's so much progress being made.
And even if we don't see legalization in our lifetime,
we have to lay the groundwork for our children and their children and for the future,
because we have to do that.
If we don't, we're guilty of allowing this horrible drug war to continue.
I always ask everybody this one question, sir.
If you could say anything to the marijuana community, what would it be?
I used to tell them all the time, do not smoke in the rain.
And many of them would ask me, why not?
And I said, well, because of the rain.
Well, he signed four of my cards, guys, and he made me raise my hand
and swear that I would not smoke in front of the police or underwater.
And I didn't do either of them, I promise you.
Dr. Levesque, I just want to thank you for being a great American.
And thank you for being here, sir. Thank you very much.
Because we all live under the same constitution and the same democracy,
and if we don't use our free speech, then we don't deserve to have it.
And people died for our right to speak out against our government
when it could make things better.
And it's happened before. America's had to change laws to make America a freer place.
We're saying do it one more time with these cannabis laws.
Well, I know that in Seattle the sky didn't fall.
And to have that amount of people there and everybody getting along like they did,
it speaks volumes for the marijuana movement.
I'm so pleased to be a part of it every year,
and thank you for letting me be a part of it every year.
But our government can only be as effective as the people.
And so voting is very important.
And people might say my vote doesn't count.
Well, the vote that's never cast never is counted.
So it's important to vote. It's important to be involved.
If you're not involved, you're part of the problem. Be part of the solution.
If I had to say one thing, it would just have to be to educate.
Everybody needs to be educated on marijuana.
It's just a plant, you know what I'm saying? That's all it is.
Just educate.
We have to legalize this. We have to end prohibition.
This is ridiculous that it's been on this long.
We have to make a stand. Go vote.
Go vote.
We can save this country by legalizing hemp and cannabis.
And I think it's not only good for our health and safety.
It's good because it creates jobs.
And by legalizing hemp, in particular, we create a whole industry
because hemp is really a goldmine of resources.
And as a doctor and as a nutrition wonk,
I can testify that there are incredible nutritional values to hemp.
There are a whole set of fatty acids that are really critical for our health
that are not otherwise widely available.
So there are very important nutritional and food values to hemp,
as well as potential as fuel.
Its value agriculturally is especially important in this day and age of climate change.
I would speak to the women in the marijuana community,
and I would say to you, my sisters, it's time for us to stand up.
It's time for us to protect our children.
It's time for us to grow our jobs and earn a sustainable wage.
Please, please, talk to your sisters.
Talk to your moms. Talk to your aunts.
Talk to your babysitters.
And let's end cannabis prohibition, end the fear, end the tyranny,
and vote yes on Measure 80 in November.
I would say, what would I say?
I would say keep going.
I would say don't make a fool of yourself.
I would say don't be confrontational, but keep going.
Keep going. Don't let people shut you up.
Don't let people put you down.
Don't let people tell you how stupid you are, any of those things.
Keep going, because it's a totally sensible thing to do.
Let me ask you a question.
When it was decriminalized, so to speak, here in Oregon, did the murder rate go up?
No.
That's it.
Actually, violent crime actually came down.
One thing I'd like to say, which people talk about a lot, and I've said this before, but it's true.
I'm not an advocate of any particular use of anything,
but cannabis is an unlocking agent, among other things.
And can I be blunt?
The first time I took acid, way back when, the funny thing, because acid makes you laugh.
It doesn't allow you to. It makes you laugh.
You will laugh.
The thing that is the most funny that I remember is pomposity.
Pomposity is the funniest thing on the planet.
Once you learn to laugh at pomposity, the game is almost up.
Because they can tell you what to do and what to think and where to sit down
and when to shut up and everything else with their big uniforms and their badges and their pompousness.
Once you start to laugh at it.
So all I'm saying is that some of these things are unlockers.
They unlock your creativity.
They unlock your sense of humor.
They allow you to see the ludicrousness of certain kinds of superiority.
I don't know how to fix guitars, so I bow to the authority, in that sense of the word,
of a guitar repairman when mine gets broken.
That's the only definition of authority that I give any credence to.
The other one, you're not an authority, you've just got a gun.
You can put me away for ten years.
That's not authority, that's force.
That's all that is.
So if we can get things square and straight with our terminology,
and we can learn to laugh at the right time,
and we can understand that unlocking our brains can be dangerous to some other people,
now we understand why they don't like us,
I think we'll be fine.
We just keep going.
We allow people to slowly but surely understand that we're not endangering them.
The murder rate isn't going to go up.
The world isn't going to fall apart.
The earth isn't going to get hit with asteroids.
The dinosaurs aren't going to come back all of a sudden.
It's going to go on.
We might even get some constructive things done.
It's important to think for yourself.
Look into the stuff.
Don't listen to the lies.
That's what you're getting in all mainstream media.
So really, think for yourself.
Get in there and study it.
You'll find out what the truth is.
You've got to look for it to find it.
These are a good place to find it.
Hemp stock here in Portland, Seattle Hemp Fest,
these type of events, normal in San Francisco,
the convention there that's coming up, these are important events.
The more people that make this, the sooner we change these laws,
the sooner a lot of people get out of prison.
So this is what time it is.
