Thank you for joining us today. On our program we are blessed to have the distinguished individual, Dr. Todd Macaria, come onto our show and share some interesting viewpoints and some successes that they've had in the Bay Area and California.
For those of you who are not acquainted with this gentleman, he has a very impressive background. He is a psychiatrist in private practice in Oakland at Berkeley.
He is a gentleman who introduced the first methadone maintenance program in Alameda County.
That's right.
And he's also a member of the California Medical Association. He's certified by the American Society of Addiction Medicine and the California Society of Addiction Medicine is a qualified medical review officer, right?
That's right.
I kind of blew that. He's also the co-author of a very impressive landmark bill that has happened in San Francisco called Proposition P.
This man's background goes beyond that, but for now that basically covers the things that we're going to be approaching.
Now, Proposition P, a lot of people have become aware of that through the press and through media coverage, and I know people becoming aware of your background recognizes that you have a lot going for you intellectually.
And so that when you make a comment that we should pay attention to hemp as a medical resource for the curing of pain and relieving of pain and other diseases, it comes with a lot of impact.
Well, thank you very much. It's a pleasure to be here.
One of the problems that we had, well, we've been having problems for many years of getting access to medicinal cannabis, and once upon a time I was in charge of marijuana research for the National Institute of Mental Health in Chevy Chase.
This is back in 1967, but since that time there's been a minimal amount of progress in getting cannabis available for medicinal use.
Only recently has there been some compassionate access, and only recently have there been some grudging admissions by the scientific and medical establishment that cannabis in fact had therapeutic efficacy.
And I feel very bitter about this because I know it to be a cover-up. Since before marijuana was taken away from availability by the 1937 Tax Act, medicinal cannabis also became unavailable, deleted from the 1941 formulary and pharmacopeia.
Now, why did that go hand in hand like that?
Because it was part of this so-called send-them-a-signal school of propaganda and disinformation that the police had to maintain in order to continue the fictionalized killer weed or part of reefer madness.
So saying that cannabis had medical or medicinal utility would have run contrary to their fiction that they needed to maintain in order to continue credibility and not having people question why marijuana was in fact prohibited.
Now, that's the only plant, substance, drug, which is not really a drug, it's a nerve, that's been treated like that. I mean, we have opium that's still available, et cetera, for medicinal purposes, et cetera, don't we, and other forms of...
That's right, even cocaine. But because of the several factors, the growing popularity and the promotion of synthetic drugs by the pharmaceutical manufacturers that started in the 1890s and went on through the 1900s and has escalated ever since with new and better, allegedly,
synthetic substances, no money could be made from any patents, and they weren't interested in promoting the use of cannabis, although Eli Lilly and Park Davis maintained a farm for developing pharmaceutical strains and pharmaceutical-strength plants up until 1937.
And then they're just now disregarding all of that past evidence until now you're bringing it to light?
Well, yes, and that's... well, it's very much like living, at least in the medical world, with a depiction of the planet of the apes and what happened to medicine after they wanted to get rid of all these human kinds of advances in technology and they reverted to some form of medicine that resembled something that happened in the Middle Ages or worse.
Okay, well, now, see, people are able to recognize that hemp can be made into paper, fiber, and fuel, but when it comes to the idea of it being medicine, outside of smoking it as far as relaxing, taking care of stress, et cetera, it's hard for them to imagine in what areas hemp can actually be utilized for. Now, you say that it helps with AIDS, as an example?
Well, okay, back to this issue of censorship and its being swept under the rug and the importance of bringing this back to consciousness and bringing it back to the awareness of the medical community as far as a therapeutic agent. And that's why the text of the initiative or the proposition in San Francisco that I co-authored contained the term restore.
Could you take a moment and read it to our audience?
Yes.
I'd appreciate that.
Recommendation to amend the Health and Safety Code of California.
One, the people of the city and county of San Francisco recommend that the state of California and the California Medical Association restore hemp medical preparations to the list of available medicines in California.
Licensed physicians shall not be penalized for or restricted from prescribing hemp preparations for medical purposes to any patient.
Definition.
The term hemp medical preparations means all products made from hemp, cannabis, or marijuana in all forms that are designed, intended, or used for human consumption for the treatment of any disease, the relief of pain, or for any healing purpose, including the relief of asthma, glaucoma, arthritis, anorexia, migraine, multiple sclerosis, epilepsy, nausea, stress,
for use as an antibiotic, an anti-emetic, or as any healing agent, or as an adjunct to any medical procedure for the treatment of cancer, HIV infection, or any other medical procedure or herbal treatment.
Now that is a very broad definition of medicine or medical or medicinal applications.
It is.
But the definition of hemp medical preparations is well documented in previous things like the U.S. Pharmacopeia, and that in fact all the definitions are in place ready to go for medicinal use of crude cannabis products to be restored.
Excellent.
To the formulary.
Excellent.
And so we're in this wonderful post-passage euphoria.
Dennis Perone, the spark plug behind this, has appointed me the medical coordinator for the Committee for Compassionate Use, his organization, to get this on the ballot.
And then now we're trying to figure out what do we do now?
All of a sudden we've become successes after all these many years having been failures and looked upon as outcasts, deviants, nuts, irresponsible, dope-smoking hippies, and other kinds of negative stereotypes that we've been stuck with, which is all part of the suppression campaign to keep cannabis, marijuana, or hemp illegal.
A lot of that has to do with people of your stature being willing to come forth into the public light and make these statements, because you know, you leave yourself wide open, I'm certain you realize that, for a variety of texts, whether it be from government agencies or private industry.
Yes, because it's really part of a campaign to maintain these collective fictions in order to prop up these flawed policies, that they need to attempt to discredit or tarnish or kill the messenger somehow so as to not be made to confront the actual facts and deal on a level playing field with what is in fact happening.
When we come back, I'd like to be able to go a little bit farther as to how the next step, Proposition P, preparation P, helps take care of a pain, yes it does, is going to be implemented in the direction that it's going to have to go before it becomes completely successful. We'll be right back after this.
We're talking today with Dr. Todd Macaria and we are learning some of the benefits, of course, from the medical uses of the hemp plant, but now we also have some challenges against us still that we've got to overcome.
You have encumbered the first leg of the journey, just the first battle basically, you've got it legal in a city, but now I understand from talking to Dennis Perone and others, you still have to encumber the state laws and the federal laws. Now, how do you plan on getting this into the next phase?
I've already worked on attempting to surf on this event wave and have taken a running start by contacting the California Medical Association with regard to the possible passage of this before it actually passed.
And so I'm asking them to become involved with helping to implement the intent of the proposition which specifies that the people of the city and county of San Francisco recommend that the state of California and the California Medical Association restore hemp preparations, etc.
How do you think that will be met?
With trepidation by the California Medical Association, but it's been put on a fast track to be reviewed by their scientific council.
And I spoke with the president of the CMA, Dr. Howard Lang, who impresses me as a forthright, courageous person, but I don't know how he feels on the issue.
He was vaguely aware of having seen it across his desk, but then passed it on to the appropriate staffers down at their headquarters office in San Francisco.
And they were aware that it had passed, but were not aware of how the California Medical Association was obliged to be involved.
There isn't any kind of way we can force the CMA to be involved in taking a stand, yay or nay.
But if they do support this, their options of activity are to publicize it amongst their physicians and also start working in Sacramento for legislation to make this possible, and of course statewide.
Now, is there a chance that a federal agent or a state agent would still take action in the city of San Francisco and begin arresting people when they are growing marijuana hemp?
Well, this is always possible, but we have this unique situation in San Francisco where the district attorney has assured us that he will not prosecute any cases for six plants or less that are growing for medicinal purposes.
If the person demonstrates that they have medicinal intent or documentation.
Gatewood Galbraith once made the comment on a show of ours that if he were able to re-legalize hemp in Kentucky, all the tourists would come and he'd fill up all the hotels.
When I spoke with Dennis Perrone, he made comment that now that this has happened in the medical field, a variety of organizations from musculoskeletal cirrhosis, etc., are wanting to open up foundations and offices, etc., in the San Francisco, i.e. Bay Area.
Do you foresee that happening, and if so, is that going to make the movement stronger?
I haven't thought of that eventuality necessarily, but I would welcome that because it would, with what we have in mind, help everybody, including the sufferers that were in need.
Because now that we have the de facto decriminalization, even though the state attorney general is a right-wing individual that will probably oppose this, and ironically he was the opponent to the DA who lost the race for the state attorney general to him, so there won't be any love lost between them.
Theoretically, the state attorney general could send state police and state narcotics agents to go and do this kind of enforcement, but it would be difficult and outside of his area of usual responsibilities.
You don't see an attack like they had in Humboldt County?
Well, I think that in San Francisco, where you have an uncooperative local DA with the state laws, you have the mayor and the public health establishment on your side.
And as soon as we get back to San Francisco, Dennis and I have a meeting with the head of the San Francisco Health Department, that we will start moving forward and making something happen de facto that would be politically suicidal to be punitive and to attempt to stop by either federal or state intervention.
That theoretically they could, but to target people who are compassionately using cannabis, this especially in an election year, would not look too good with regard to Washington, the state of unreality inside the Beltway that doesn't really have any substantive health policy.
And to do something negative like this would be, I would say, not good politics, but back to trying to implement the intent of this.
We are going to be presenting to the county health person a draft of a questionnaire in a form that we will have distributed by the health department and publicized by them to the physicians in San Francisco, that we are starting a research project to determine the impact of this in terms of the first steps.
And that is a way of accurately assessing actual hazards and benefits of cannabis products that will involve visits by the users to their family physician.
Or if they don't have one, find one. Because to get a prescription for using cannabis, they'd have to have the signature of a prescribing physician because it mandates that we're not going to be punished for prescribing.
And then should the police come and investigate a growing situation in a window box or something of that nature, patio, that the person would furnish proof that this was for medicinal purposes and they would be functionally sheltered and decriminalized for their compassionate access to cannabis.
Now as a quid pro quo, we ask that they give us certain facts with regard to their, the use for what ailment. And we have all these conditions listed here and this will be part of the form that we'll ask the patient to complete and the physician also.
Now I know one thing that the taxpayers from the Bay Area would be concerned about is when the Berlin Wall came down, all the people came rushing out and there was an overflow into a new city and not enough to take care of.
When this wall comes bursting down in San Francisco, you're going to have people from Miami, New York, everywhere coming into San Francisco and needing this medicine to relieve themselves from AIDS, glaucoma, etc., etc. And there's going to be an enormous amount, it appears, people seeking your help. How are you going to prepare to take care of that?
I think the San Francisco physicians can respond to that challenge and that they can provide them with good medicine and also with frankness with regard to their substance use patterns and not have to be hypocritical or fearful that anything will be happening to them so that they're not going to turn down the business.
And we're talking about people publicizing to the medical community that this is what happened and this is what the public health department is doing to try to help implement it.
One of the things we're going to ask for is some office space in the public health department, but we'll pay for it.
And we're then going to start soliciting contributions or money to implement this research project.
Another thing that we're going to ask the public health department to do is to monitor the purity, quality, and strength and do chemical analyses on hemp specimens that will be submitted by users because they would like to know about different issues of purity.
For example, fungi and molds. This is really a critical issue for the AIDS patients because those that have compromised immunologic systems and problems with recurrent pneumonia, to have sources of mold or fungi come in courtesy of the leaf would be not good for their health probably.
And so we have to study the level of occurrences of these kinds of contaminants, molds, fungi, possibly somebody might have something in their soil they didn't know about that would get into their like a heavy metal.
And that the, essentially the health department's laboratory would be protecting the health of the citizens of San Francisco for drug purity with regard to cannabis plus providing us a source of information for other phases of research which will be structure activity relationships and variety, strain, other kinds of botanical or species,
kinds of differences or growth techniques will also start coming online with regard to issues of what are good medicines, what are undesirable effects.
And we'll start generating new research and new approaches to problems.
That's right. And a population which will give us this information in exchange for being protected.
Sounds excellent.
And this is the kind of thing that I'm quite excited about. I think that we are sending the right signal to the beltway back here.
And we need to do so still.
And I think that this kind of initiative will help demystify because it will involve the medical community in learning what is real and what is hysteria so that more legitimate information will come from this.
And I'm asking to be appointed principal investigator for this research effort.
I'm sure we'd love to do that.
And we've also enjoyed having you on our show. We really have to go at this point but we'd like to have you come back soon. Next time you get a chance to be on our show, would you please?
I would love to.
Thank you very much. Thank you very much for tuning in to our program. We're doing what we can to bring the information to you as quickly as we come across it.
Until we're in touch again, keep happy, keep strong, keep wise.
