The main thing you take anything away from my talk is that
Marijuana, hemp, is the oldest crop purposely grown by people.
Over 12,000 years ago, the first agricultural settlements in Mesopotamia,
along the Tigris and Euphrates River,
present-day Iraq, and on the opposite flank of the Himalayas in
China, along the Huanghe River, the Yellow River.
Both of those civilizations started growing marijuana, you know, hemp.
They grew it because it's the plant that produces the most fuel,
the most food, the most fiber, and the most medicine
than any other plant on this planet.
So obviously, to prohibit the plant that makes the most fuel,
the most food, the most fiber, and the most medicine
than any other plant is wrong.
So we're working hard to try to change that.
You know, there are a number of ballot initiatives out there this year.
I particularly have been working in Oregon, because that's where I live.
And we've put a measure on the ballot there we call Measure 80.
It would legalize any individual to grow their own
without any artificial limits on the amount that they can grow.
It also doesn't have any limits on the amount that you can possess,
as long as it's for non-commercial use.
It frees horticultural hemp, so the seeds and starts of all varieties of cannabis
will be legal.
And it legalizes hemp for fuel, fiber, and food without regulation.
The only regulation is that the strains that grow the best quality
and the best quantity of fiber will be the ones that Oregon farmers can use.
You know, there's also an initiative on the ballot here, I-502,
and one in Washington, I mean in Colorado, Amendment 64.
Three states will vote on various proposals to legalize marijuana this year.
If any of those pass, we'll change the whole dynamic of this.
If all three of those initiatives pass, that would be like the end of the Cold War
and the falling of the Berlin Wall.
It would be like the toppling of the Statue of Linen in Red Square back in 1990.
If all three of these initiatives pass, it will send a message
that the people aren't going to put up with marijuana prohibition any longer.
And, you know, there was a good breakthrough just this past week in Kansas City, Missouri.
A jury was paneled to prosecute some guy for possession of marijuana,
and he hadn't bought some tax stamp they needed there in Missouri.
The jury revolted. They got angry at the prosecutor.
They told him they aren't going to prosecute this guy.
So the judge threw the charges out and made it where he can't be tried again.
If you get an opportunity to serve on jury duty, go there and just say no to marijuana laws.
Tell them you're not going to convict anyone for a marijuana crime because marijuana isn't a crime.
Marijuana is a blessing.
So, you know, we have a booth over here, the Hemp and Cannabis Foundation.
We've helped over 20,000 people in the state of Washington.
Altogether, about 150,000 people all across the country get their medical marijuana permits.
That is a blessing for us and a blessing for the patients.
If you want to find out more about it, come right over to that booth.
We also have information about Oregon's Measure 80.
We'll be voting on that.
And in closing, I just want to say you need to register and you need to vote.
You need to get out there and get your friends to register and vote.
We have a real historic opportunity to end marijuana prohibition this year in just about two months, two and a half months.
If we do, it'll send a ray of hope to those people that are in prison all around the world.
You know, here in America, there are over a thousand people in prison for life without the possibility of parole
who never grew marijuana, I mean, never heard of other person, never stole anything.
They're there just for growing marijuana.
So get out there, register to vote, and make history.
Thanks.
And go hemp fast.
