Hey, today I choose to speak up for my friend Roger Christie. Anybody know about
Roger? This is my third HempFest to come here and try to speak for Roger
Christie and I don't want to talk about anything else because my friend has been
in jail for over two years without bond. You know, two years on a pot charge and
they're not even allowing him to put up bond. This is an honorably discharged US
soldier, you know, fought in our armed forces. He has never been in any criminal
trouble in his life. It's a nonviolent crime. None of these things, there's
nothing about harm to the public other than the fact that my friend Roger
Christie had the courage to post a sign on the front of his building in Hilo,
Hawaii. The sign said, we smoke pot religiously and so can you. Now this sign was on the front of the
building right next to the sign for the Chamber of Commerce of Hilo, Hawaii and
he was there for almost 10 years with his Hawaiian cannabis ministry and he
was open about it. He was really loud. He ran for mayor, he ran for governor, he
went to every public hearing and his message consistently was we got a real
problem in Hawaii and it isn't pot, it's meth. And look at this study I found that
says if we just let people have pot they won't use meth. And he was a minister. He
picked up these religious mantel and he carried it forward and he helped a lot
of people in his religious ministry and he decided that it was important for him
to defend his rights to use cannabis as a sacrament. So important that in the
year 2003 he sued the federal government to establish his rights to religious
freedom. And the federal government fought the lawsuit not by saying you
don't have the right but by saying hey we're not going to investigate you. He's
not under investigation. There's no threat of federal prosecution. He doesn't
have a case, he has no standing, you have to throw his case out of court. And that's
what the federal courts did. And so that same federal government that said they
weren't investigating Mr. Christie and they weren't going to prosecute him then
sent in the narcs big-time. They spent two years investigating the small little
religious cult in Hilo, Hawaii that was operating openly. They did everything
possible. Two years of video surveillance, two years of narcs coming
in the church and invading the privacy of the religious context here. Two years
of wiretaps, 17,000 phone calls. Most of them people thinking they're talking to
their minister with the government listening. This is what happened to Roger.
One day they came in and they arrested not just Roger but 12 of his friends
including his fiancee Cher and some people who were growing for the church.
You know just people who attended the church. 13, we have the Hawaii 13. This was
July 8th, two years ago. Now everyone else got bond but Roger he's too much of a
danger to the community to release on bond. See they put all these charges
together and they combine and they're all responsible for each other's plants
and they get it over a thousand plants and Rogers potentially might get ten
years in jail and that changes the bond laws now that we have the war on drugs.
And that means that they can keep him without bond, without any promise of bond.
This gentle person has never heard a soul who's fought for our country, who's
ministered to thousands. He's too dangerous to put out on the streets. This
is our modern-day drug war where we are the fodder in this war and we are
getting trampled in this war. No matter what you think, no matter how free we are
here, we have brothers and sisters suffering with life sentences with 20
years plus life sentences with billion-dollar forfeitures. We've got
people losing their farms, we got people losing their families, we got people
losing their health. We've got to do something here everybody. Isn't that right?
All right so this is Hemfest. We've come out to celebrate how well we are doing
here and we are doing well. If we came to Hemfest 15 years ago you had to keep
looking over your shoulder. You had to look for all the policemen coming
through the boats out there with binoculars looking for people smoking
on the rocks. The van they kept out here to arrest people and arresting over a
hundred people a weekend for just smoking here in the park. But we
continued Hemfest because it was our civil disobedience that we were going to
change the laws with, right? And in 10 years, 15 years that we've been doing
this, it's the worst of it. We have made these policemen understand one by one
that we're not dangerous and we're not crazy and we're assets to their
community and they best work with us. And that's why we're able to do this
Hemfest without anybody in here running around looking for what we're doing
because we've kept it safe and we've kept it clean. And I guess that's the
final message. Keep it clean everybody. Look around you pick up these scraps of
paper, cigarette butts. It's all got to come up before tomorrow morning because
we got a big party to give here tomorrow and the next day and I hope you'll come
back. We love you Hemfest. Thank you to all the thousands of volunteers that
make this happen. Thank you for each and every one of you who puts your money in
the bucket. Thank you everybody. Thank you Vivian.
