In 2003 I think I met Dr. Phil Levesque. I know a lot of you guys know Dr. Levesque.
If you don't, this is Dr. Levesque. This is as close as I could get today because he
just couldn't make it. So this is almost life-threatening. He's really a tall guy.
Anyhow, if he was here he'd have all kinds of advice to give to you.
All good advice. Dr. Levesque was one of the main guys that helped the law, the
initiative in 1998 become a reality. He had problems with the Oregon Medical
Board because he signed more patients authorizations than any other doctor in
the state of Oregon. So good for him. He helped 5,000 patients before they took
him out in 2004. So he had five good years that he helped all these people.
A thousand of them are veterans and we hear from them every day. We hear from
them at SalemNews.com because he's a regular writer for us. So he's a really
special guy. He turned 90 years old just a couple of months ago and he's still
going strong. So you'll see him around. He writes for us two, three, four times a
week. So catch his stuff on SalemNews.com. He covers PTSD and a lot of
toxicology. He is a forensic toxicologist and a pharmacologist, one of the only
ones in the state of Oregon. And so though he can't sign applications
anymore, he can still talk about what he knows to be true fact, which is that
cannabis cures and he knows it to be true just as we all do. So I just wanted
to share that with you that Doc does wish that he could be here and on his
behalf I'd like to say what he would of course leave you with. Don't smoke in the
rain. Anyway, you guys are a family and we always think of the cannabis community
as a community and I want you to look at each other and realize, you know, this
isn't a fad. This is, you know, we don't want to look at each other as people
that we only run into at places like this because it's a cool place to hang
out. We do this all the time. If you're an activist, if you believe in Indian
Prohibition, then you need to believe it 24-7. So look at each other as your
brothers and sisters. We need to take care of each other. Keep each other out
of harm's way. Don't let anybody that you know get
arrested. Give them good advice. So, you know, turn them on to the best
information that you've got and we've got a lot of resources at SalemNews.com
so please feel free to use us in that way as much as you possibly can. But we
have a lot of people that have really sacrificed a lot that are serving time
in prison today that have been for many years. But, you know, we've got Reverend
Roger Christie in Hawaii. Three years in federal, you know, detention. This stuff
needs to stop and Doc Levesque also, he is a sacrificial lamb. He sacrificed his
whole career for us. For us. So let's do him the favor that he is doing for us
and give it your all. Do what you need to do. Sign your petitions and make sure you
vote and speak up, you guys. You know that it really makes a difference. It makes a
difference. Speak the truth. Anyway, thank you very much.
