It's normally what I refer to as the overdrive part of the set.
This is actually a track off that Honest Racket album
featuring the Grouch and the Living Legend, y'all.
So feel free to get, you know what I'm saying, a little bit,
a little bit lucid and all that.
One, one, one, one, check, check, time.
Yeah, yeah.
Check.
A long time coming, turn the stroke, my thumb.
I burn something for the pain, sip something, swerving lanes.
That's my everyday remedy for what ails ya.
Throw a couple back and hit the track so hard that it derails ya.
We West Coast carving this car for our own marketing niche.
You part-time and never start for this shit.
This a partnership for artists with the same vision.
We do the damn thing vicious, shining in a way your platinum chain isn't.
This is gold bang ripping through the heart of the gang's big man.
We brought change to handle business and more action.
So I'm a giving ending for your heart and for veins like a slave river.
For art that makes a difference.
We may see Bond dig it.
We may stand out of free dirt and hop that Beatbox collecting research T-shirt.
You'll be first to go to state promotion.
You may enter your bank and look at how you're staring at a tiger.
Come on.
This life we learn, we grow, we gonna enter our name and song.
We're trapped in a box, but we're reaching for the killer.
Tearing down the walls, looking for the reason that we built them.
For us, it's the only way.
Sandpiste, Engel, the proletariats.
We're trapped in a box, but we're reaching for the killer.
Tearing down the walls, looking for the reason that we built them.
I'm not an artist dog.
I write random verses.
Sit back and laugh, cause the world gets worse.
And it's been a long time.
Shouldn't have taken a break.
Had to let that artist racket penetrate.
On a center stage in the state, roll like the NSA.
Hit the road on a crowd, only riding motorcades.
We were made to lay the foundation.
And it ain't coming out of pocket like Copenhagen.
I'm winning snow, money swinging through.
Vince Vaughn saying I'm so money.
It's funny, cause I'm a swinger too.
I'm puffed past till I see the plume.
Drug gas, chugging a blast like this drink's for you.
I'm a cheap tipper, bartender I ain't.
But I ain't about to leave with her unless she makes my drink stiffer.
No ice, no bank, just my elixir.
Tree Swishers, Hennessy, that's a sweet picture.
This life we learn, we grow, we gonna enter our name and song.
We're trapped in a box, but we're reaching for the heaven.
Tearing down the walls, looking for the reason that we built them.
Let's build.
Cause it's the only way, saying peace ain't gonna grow pain.
We're trapped in a box, but we're reaching for the heaven.
Tearing down the walls, the person who can get things.
Flip things, a pound so I can switch things around.
And if you're listening, you want that best thing in town.
So lift up your wrist, play, we got that hot blistering style.
This blistering now, spitting some shit.
Ripping the crowd, throw up your fist and get loud.
Cause we gon' turn this bitch out.
You know the verdict that's asserted, so we serving you clowns.
We got the crown on contact, the pill song is long lasting.
Also classy hair, knocking hip hop, we all had it up to here.
With that top 40 pop, shit is clear.
We drop in your ears, just a opposite.
We're starting off, spitting here, here, here to the new year.
Like a stock in your box, and you're walking the crew here.
So that independence in this detrimental population, take my hat off.
This life we learn, we grow, we gonna enter our name and song.
We're trapped in a box, but we're reaching for the ceiling.
Tearing down the walls, looking for the reason that we built.
Let's build.
This the only way, say please.
The only way.
We're trapped in a box, but we're reaching for the ceiling.
Tearing down the walls.
That's reciprocated, both ways.
Definitely.
Hip stock, NEP, say Johns.
Hip stock.
Definitely.
