Give it up, show your love for Paul Steyer!
Hey, thanks to all of you for coming out and making this a big success.
You know, in our clinics around the country, so far we've helped almost 100,000 people
become legal medical marijuana patients.
We've done that in nine states.
We're looking at expanding into other states too.
And you know, medical marijuana is a wonderful thing,
especially for the really sick people who desperately need it.
It definitely relieves so many different conditions.
And seeing the patients come to our clinic is really a spiritually gratifying thing.
They're all so grateful.
And they help us put this whole festival on and help expand the movement in a lot of different ways.
But marijuana, medical marijuana is not the end, and it's not the end of the trail for cannabis and hemp.
We need, you know, hemp produces more fiber, more protein, and more oil than any other plant on this planet.
And what we've got to do is legalize that.
And the worst thing about the current situation is thousands of families are broken up,
parents are thrown in jail, kids are put into foster homes all over marijuana.
When, you know, it doesn't cause the terrible things that alcohol can cause when somebody's abusing alcohol.
I mean, a marijuana abuser would be somebody who smokes it all the time and goes to sleep.
And he's definitely not harming many people except for himself.
We should have the freedom to grow the plant that produces more fiber, protein, and oil than any other plant on this planet.
And solve a lot of problems.
So we have a proposal to do that.
Right now, we have a couple of proposals that we just gathered signatures on.
We're going to get a ballot title from the Secretary of State.
The process here in Oregon now is you need to get a thousand signatures to get a ballot title.
And the ballot title is what actually appears on the ballot.
We're going to poll two different versions of our Oregon Cannabis Tax Act.
And depending on which one gets best in the polls, we're going to move forward with a bill for 2010
to completely legalize marijuana and end adult marijuana prohibition.
Allow any individual to grow their own.
In the past, we had filed a previous bill that would have put marijuana in the same stores as alcohol or liquor.
In our previous polling, we showed that was a real mistake.
We've got to keep marijuana separate from alcohol.
And so we're putting marijuana in marijuana-only stores now.
So you won't go to the same store to get your alcohol and your marijuana.
And so it would also allow people to open coffee shops or marijuana bars or vapor bars.
It will just really make our economy boom and open the door for tourism in this state.
And we need your support to make it happen.
So in the coming months, you'll see a new petition probably around Christmas time.
We urge you to get people to sign that petition.
And then we're going to have to win the election.
But first we're going to poll and see where we stand in terms of the two different wordings we have.
Anyway, we appreciate all of you folks coming out.
If you can, support all the vendors. They help us put this event on.
Pick up a little bit of trash. We want to leave this park nicer than we initially found it.
And register to vote. That's one of the most important things you can do.
We've got to get rid of the stereotype that we're just lazy stoners.
And we've got to get out there and show that we can take charge of the political process.
You know, back in the 60s, Tim Leary said, turn on, tune in, and drop out.
Well, he changed his tune in the latter part of his life.
And I really liked what he was saying then.
It was turn on, tune in, and take over.
And that's what we've got to do. We've got to take over.
And the best way to do that is through the ballot box in this society currently.
And so I urge you to register to vote. Partake in the political process.
And enjoy human and the human revolution.
I want to thank Los Barajanos. Thank John Trudeau.
Thank HUMN. And thank each and every one of you for coming out.
And remember, help us restore HUMN.
Good night.
Paul Stanford, everybody.
