Live at the studios of City Video at the Rage Nightclub, it is time for Cannabis Common Sense.
The show that tells you the truth about marijuana and the politics behind its prohibition.
Now here's the host of your show, Paul Stanford and Paul Loney.
Hello and welcome to another exciting edition of Cannabis Common Sense.
Our show is a production of our political committee, the Campaign for the Restoration and Regulation of Hemp.
We are circulating a petition, the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act.
And I would now like to introduce my fellow chief petitioner, our political committee's attorney,
our treasurer and the president of the Oregon Wildlife Federation, Mr. Paul Loney.
Well thanks Paul for that fine introduction.
Our initiative was a comprehensive initiative which would regulate marijuana in a comprehensive system, obviously.
It would allow the sale to adults of marijuana through state liquor stores for a profit.
Taxes go into the state coffers to cut our state income tax.
And it would allow at-cost sales of medical marijuana to patients with a doctor's prescription.
It would allow our farmers to grow industrial hemp, the low THC variety, to provide all sorts of products.
So fiber, food, fuel.
And some of the proceeds would go into drug education programs, realistic ones, not the phony DARE ones that don't work.
And it would also go into treatment programs which are desperately needed.
Like I say, it's a comprehensive system.
It's a way to end the prohibition that's destroying our way of life, destroying our democracy.
And it's just causing tragedy to families.
You know, we can save untold millions of dollars in tax revenue that's spent today on incarcerating marijuana offenders, locking up marijuana growers.
We can bring in hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue for Oregon State coffers,
which is going to lower the tax burden on us all when we tax and regulate the sales of marijuana to adults.
So we urge you to get our petition.
We want to send this out to you right away.
Call us at 235-4606.
If you're outside of the Portland area, call 503-235-4606.
If you already have our petitions, send those back to us right away.
We've only got a couple months to go.
We've got to turn in all of our signatures by the end of June.
So if you send us petitions right away, we'll send you back petitions.
We are even paying some petitioners, so contact us for more information about that.
Or if you're a volunteer, Paul and I are both volunteers, then help us out.
Let us send this to you.
Call us at 503-235-4606.
Yeah, like I always say it, but if you have only your own signature on the petition, send that in.
Get your signature.
Get your best friend, your partner, whoever.
Get them to sign the petition with you and send it on in.
If you have questions, call our number.
Bruce is the person who will probably answer the phone.
Sometimes Paul answers the phone.
Please give us a call.
Let's make our vision of a much more safer and saner Oregon reality like they have done up in Vancouver, B.C.
Exactly.
We've been doing some shows now with Mark Emery, the founder of Hemp, B.C.
Today's show we thought we'd show you a different person.
One of the great things about Mark Emery and Hemp, B.C.
is that there's been a great community gathering up there of just some really wonderful folks doing great things.
The person in today's interview, Sister Icy, is another one of these fabulous persons.
She's got a great story to tell, and she's a wonderfully strong human being.
Yeah, Mark Emery has actually passed on Hemp, B.C. to Sister Icy.
Sister Icy is now the proprietor of Hemp, B.C.
Mark Emery is actually keeping the seed sales business where he's the largest seed seller in the world,
and he is keeping Cannabis Canada, but he's turned over management and ownership of Hemp, B.C.,
the retail and wholesale outlet, to Sister Icy, and we interviewed her.
I think you're going to like this interview, folks.
She's a real warm-hearted person.
And so I guess without further ado, let's roll the interview.
Right.
We're in the beautiful city of Vancouver.
We are here at Hemp, B.C.'s retail store interviewing the proprietor, Sister Icy.
Thanks for having us, Sister.
It's a pleasure.
Yeah, it's good to meet you.
And you, gentlemen.
All right.
And so here at the Hemp, B.C. store, what is the Hemp, B.C. store?
Well, the Hemp, B.C. store is a lot of different things.
It's a hemp store.
We carry a wide range of hemp products, everything from rope and twine to clothing to cosmetics.
Hemp, B.C. is also a place of advocacy.
We advocate the decriminalization and deregulation of cannabis in all its forms,
and that would be hemp for fiber and fuel and such, and marijuana as well for its many uses.
Hemp, B.C. is also a pretty major tourist attraction in Vancouver.
We see a lot of visitors from all over the world, a lot of people from the States as well.
So it's just a few of the things we are.
So you sell a wide range of products.
What sort of?
Do you have books there?
Do you have clothing?
We have a really large library, everything from information on hemp and its uses in industry,
to grow books to enable people to grow their own marijuana.
Do you have any problems with grow books, selling grow books here?
It hasn't been a problem.
I've managed this store for a good time now, and we've never, you know, the police have never given us any problems about it.
So actually in the raid in December, they left the grow books alone and such.
When they, you know, took the paraphernalia and seeds and grow equipment, they left the books alone, so I guess it's not a concern.
But the raid in December, that was the second raid.
There had been one sometime before, right?
That was December of 97, was the second one.
Right, the first one was January 96, and they did basically the same thing.
Came in en masse and closed the store, stole pipes, bongs, what they consider to be paraphernalia, seeds, and in this raid, growing equipment, lights and such.
So, and then in both instances, we were open the next day and doing a steady stream of business.
Well, that's great. Thanks for fighting for our rights.
Yeah, and you know, that's what we consider that we do here.
That's a large part of what we do is we are fighting for individual rights and freedoms, and we believe that it's everybody's own choice, you know, how they choose to live.
Within, you know, certain confines that society dictates, and as a pot smoker, I can honestly say I'm not hurting anybody by my habit, if you'd like to call it that.
Certainly, I'm productive in contributing to society in my estimation, so.
Yeah, and it seems to me it's an act of civil disobedience, you know, it's like when you've got no other choice, but you still have to live your life.
This is what you're doing.
This is it, yeah, and then you come to a point in your life where you decide if it's important enough something to fight for, and I certainly consider, you know, that's what I do here.
Were you here the day of the December 97 bust?
Yes.
Were you here when they came in?
I certainly was.
I think that it's always kind of interesting to me anyway to hear what happens when they come in.
I guess this was a, they came in with like how many people, say 20, 30, 40?
Oh, there were dozens of them.
It was really quite ridiculous, you know, when you could stand back and look at what was actually going on.
There were 20, 25 officers that came in with a search warrant.
What time of day was this?
It was just about 420.
About 420.
It really was.
So that was kind of auspicious.
In any case, they came in with the search warrant and read the search warrant to my assistant Tamara, and it stated that they were there to confiscate illegal paraphernalia for illicit drug use and blah, blah, blah.
And they proceeded, they took the names of the customers that were here.
There were quite a number of customers in the store.
It was a nice afternoon.
And let them leave, and finally stopped Tamara from making sales.
She was ringing in sales all the time.
They were rushing the customers to take him.
It was really quite funny.
And got particulars from all the staff members, and then they were told to leave.
I hung around until Mark got here.
And after a little while, they escorted us out as well.
Apparently you're not allowed to stay on premises while they're ripping you off.
It's very confiscating.
There was a large demonstration kind of gathering during this.
Everybody went outside and waited, and as the crowd grew and grew, it was really quite reassuring actually to see the support that we gathered in such a short time.
It grew to about, I'm not even sure, maybe 300 people.
All standing very peaceably as pot smokers tend to do.
Around the police tape that had been put up.
So it was kind of blocking out the street, or was it just on the sidewalk?
Yeah, no, we spilled over into Hastings, absolutely.
But that's because they wouldn't let us stand on the sidewalk.
They had it roped off.
Stopping traffic on Hastings?
Yeah.
Oh, great.
That's great.
So how did the word get out for all these people to show up?
We actually got on the phone as soon as the police came and started calling the local media and such.
And for the area, I mean, the people who came out on foot, it's just the numbers in the area who do support NBC and what we do here.
So what are some of the other fellow store owners or store proprietors on the street here, what do they think of your business?
They actually were interviewed after the last raid for that reason.
And most of what I heard or actually saw on TV was very favorable.
They agree that NBC is a good thing on this block.
We certainly have kept the hard drug users the other side of Canby Street just because we attract so much attention.
There's always people coming and going in traffic and we're good for business.
We attract a lot of people to this block.
NBC is an extremely busy retail store.
And so, you know, all in all, we're very good for the area.
And they have said as much.
That's good to have support from your neighbors.
I heard when this first opened, it was boarded up and maybe burned out or something.
No, I'm not familiar.
Oh, perhaps across the road, yeah, the first store.
Was an old boarded up some kind of bookstore alternative something I can ask my.
Yeah.
So do you also sell hydroponic equipment and other things like that?
No, we don't any longer.
That was the little grow shop that was here when Mark owned the business.
So that's closed out.
That's closed as well as Mark.
Emory seed sales are no longer on premises here.
We're not affiliated any longer.
And so what we do have is the big, beautiful store.
Yeah, and it is very, very nice.
So I understand there were licensing problems and they said they weren't going to give licenses.
City Councilor City Hall had said to Marcus that they were going to renew his business license for this year.
I'm sure totally politically motivated, but, you know, whatever that's it's happened.
And so what Mark decided to do instead of lose or risk losing the whole business because he would have been, you know,
Operating without a license and such. I'm not sure.
But it would be better to divest himself of these particular holdings.
And in that way, we were able to retain, I think, about 21 of the former 35 full time employees of MPC.
The other 14, of course, lost their jobs.
They were casualties of this drug war.
And and so, yeah, their employment was gone when the grocery store and our wholesale business closed down.
So but this way, you know, there's still a lot of us working and that's good.
So that's good. Yeah.
You know, we're from Oregon, Oregon.
They've really cracked down.
We used to kind of be the cannabis center of the West Coast until the 80s.
And the federal government started enforcing federal laws in local areas.
And people are being incarcerated for really long periods of time.
And police are using infrared detection to find how I'd like to grow operations.
And we like to tell people about that.
How what's going on here in Vancouver?
We're now that kind of Vancouver's been the center of freedom here, at least when it comes to cannabis of Western North America.
As far as police efforts go, I mean, the police are always talking about, you know,
looking at looking out for the big growers, the commercial growers, the people like that who they assume are all bikers.
And what I know is that a lot of people in Vancouver grow pot for their own consumption.
They may have one room in their house where they have a light and they have some marijuana plants growing.
And that, I think, is the largest kind of profile of a grower in Vancouver.
Definitely, you know, is the personal gardener.
And there's a lot of them.
Great.
So, please don't harass them.
We're back.
And I remind you once again that this interview was brought to you by the Campaign for the Restoration and Regulation of Hemp.
And we're the sponsors of the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act.
Take it away, Paul.
The Oregon Cannabis Tax Act will tax and regulate the sales of marijuana to adults through state liquor stores.
It will allow adults to cultivate their own marijuana.
It will allow bars and coffee shops to open up, things like wineries.
We are also allowing farmers to cultivate hemp for fiber, protein, and oil.
We will tax the sales of marijuana to adults.
We'll allow the untaxed sale of marijuana to medical patients with a doctor's prescription.
We need your help.
Right now, we are less than halfway to the ballot.
We need 75,000 registered Oregon voter signatures by the end of June to put this important issue on the ballot.
At this point, we want you, if you've already got our petitions, to mail them back to us today.
And if you don't have them, call us at 503-235-4606.
We'll send them to you.
If you mail some back to us, we'll send you more.
If you need a job, give us a call because we might be paying petitioners today.
So call us at 503-235-4606.
Yeah, it's very important that we get any signatures that you have sitting at home on your desk, in your drawer,
mail them back to us because we don't want you to forget about them and then shake your head come July because you forgot to mail them back in.
That could make the difference, folks.
Yep.
It doesn't take, you know, all you folks out there watching us, get a couple signatures, we'll be there.
And, you know, help us make our vision of Oregon with regulated hemp available to all a reality.
Like, you know, we're doing a series of interviews up in Vancouver, B.C., and they have their own vision up there.
They have their own reality.
They're creating their own reality up there.
They're creating a community.
You know, we've interviewed Mark Emery, and now we're doing Sister Icy, and it's just a wonderful community up there.
In future shows, you'll see other folks that we interviewed from this great community, and we want to create that community here.
And you can help us create that community by giving us a call at 503-235-4606.
Get a petition, get some signatures.
If you have questions, give us a call or write us, and we'll answer the questions.
Yeah, we only have until the end of June.
Right now, we're closing in with just a couple months left.
So send those petitions in.
Call us.
If you have access to the World Wide Web, look at our web page at www.crrh.org.
You can actually download our petitions from our web page there at www.crrh.org.
Or, if you don't have access to this newfangled technology, call us on the phone at 503-235-4606.
Let us send you these petitions, and if you already have them, please send them back to us right now.
Don't wait.
All right, and let's go back to our interview with Sister Icy from Hemp, B.C., up in Vancouver, B.C.
Isn't she great?
Vancouver is a little larger than our city.
In Portland, they're doing several a day.
They often do property seizures and home seizures and things like that in conjunction with it.
Do they do that property seizure here in Canada?
Actually, with the passage of Bill C-8 last year, they can apply to do that.
They can apply to have property seized.
It's never actually been tried.
I think there was a case in Victoria where there was a house seized, and what they have to do now is apply to keep it, I guess, or take it away from the owner.
But, again, it's not been tested, so we'll see.
So it's just being implemented.
Yeah, exactly.
We'll see if Canadians stand for it.
Yeah, hopefully not.
Someone's got to draw the line here.
Property is being taken right and left in our country.
Like I say, it's a good act of civil disobedience.
If you don't agree with the law and you don't want to change it, you just have to live your life.
It really corrupts the criminal justice system as well because the police are going after property.
They're really looking and making decisions on how much money they can make in doing busts.
There was one horror story that one of our guests a few months back, a forfeiture attorney, Constance Crooker, was talking about.
One of her clients was arrested for growing marijuana, and they took everything.
They took his refrigerator, his stove, his TV, his furniture, and then they charged him in federal court where he was facing an incredibly long prison sentence.
He committed suicide, and his family went to get some of his belongings back, and the police said they wanted to keep his refrigerator and microwave for their office.
And so that's what they did.
Wow.
Yeah.
For shame, huh?
Yeah, so that's really the situation in our country, unfortunately, and it's a shame that our government's pressuring yours to try to make it where fascism creeps here as well.
Yes, and it's becoming embarrassingly obvious, and it really is.
And so here we are, doing what we can.
Yep, and we're going to stop it.
Yeah, and that's what I like about your story here.
You're getting information out to people so they can use it.
They know how to grow plants if they want.
They know the uses of plants.
They can buy products made from a plant.
It's just such an act of sort of as a vegan's right there almost is telling people something that they don't know.
Yeah, and you have to educate.
Yeah.
That's the only way.
I think it's the only way to change all this is to make people more informed and to show them where the lies have been told to them all these years, you know.
It's just we've got to stop believing everything we're fed by the machine.
So we just have to stop now.
Yeah, I think it's great that you can be able to take over the business here.
When did you take over the business?
On the 8th of March.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
I'm thrilled.
It's just an awesome opportunity that Mark Emery has given me.
And, yeah, I really want to live up to it, you know.
Well, good.
Yeah, it's a good challenge.
So have you got any grand plans for how you want to see the story evolve?
We're just going to keep growing.
We're just going to keep growing and keep providing people with what they want.
And we're just going to see how it goes.
I'm a firm believer in making very concrete plans.
Things are a little more kind of unstable than that.
But we're just going to keep going on and doing what we know is right.
And in that, I don't think we're going to fail.
So it's good.
Sounds good.
Yeah.
Yeah, so I was just kind of neat that you've been able to do this.
When the city fathers, mothers, do they give you permission, the proper permits?
Not yet.
Nope, not yet.
I have applied for a business license.
You've only had it since the 8th of this month.
Yeah, exactly.
There's probably not enough time for much of it to get through.
Exactly.
You know, yes, those wheels turn slowly.
There was some concern from the people at City Hall about seed sales and the grocery store, both of which, you know,
I've assured them that both are gone and they won't be back here.
And I hope that just alleviates their concerns.
But we haven't heard back as yet, so we're waiting patiently.
The licensing inspector that I spoke with a couple of weeks back when I went to meet with him assured me that he would not close MBC while my application is being processed.
So, you know, we're confident that we can continue to open our doors every day and do some business, you know.
So do they give you a timetable of when they might decide?
Oh, no.
No?
No, no.
On secret probation they have you on.
That's it.
Double secret probation.
Yeah.
But we're behaving ourselves, so I don't foresee any problems that way.
Well, good.
Good.
It's pretty unusual.
I haven't ever been to Amsterdam, but it's pretty unusual to come in and see people openly smoking in an establishment.
That's really cool, I think, really myself.
We think so, too.
What's that like?
You have a pretty unique – I don't think there's any place else here on this continent that you can see that.
And I want to congratulate you for helping pioneer this.
Well, thank you.
I have a lot of brave souls upstairs, you know.
And, again, they're all doing what they think is right.
You know, Mark Henry said something a time that really stuck in my head, and that is if you want freedom, sometimes you just have to take it.
And that's what we're doing.
It's an awesome feeling when it's brought to my attention.
I mean, I do this every day.
This is my life, and I don't really notice anything out of the ordinary.
But when we have people come in and say, oh, that's amazing that you can do this, and it's so free, and wow, Vancouver's such an awesome place, you know.
It's really exciting.
You know, it really is that we're showing people something that, you know, it's a glimpse of real freedom, you know.
Nobody's hurting anybody.
Everybody's, you know, doing something that, you know, they deem important.
And it's not a big deal, you know, and it's not.
It's only a flower.
And that's what we're trying to show people.
That's what we're trying to present.
It's a flower that hasn't caused one death in recorded history.
It's probably the oldest agricultural crop.
All archaeologists agree that it's among the oldest.
Yeah, tried and true.
Yeah, so.
All right, and once again, I'd like to remind folks that this interview with Sister Icy is brought to you by the Campaign for the Restoration and Regulation of Hemp.
And we have an initiative out there, the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act, and we need your help.
The Oregon Cannabis Tax Act will tax and regulate the sales of marijuana to adults, allow bars and taverns to sell taxed marijuana to adults.
It will allow the untaxed sale of marijuana to patients, medical patients, with a doctor's prescription.
It will allow industrial hemp to be cultivated by farmers without a license to produce fiber, protein, paper, fabric, rope, thousands of products, tens of thousands of products.
And it will raise hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue to save all of us from further taxes from our lovely state of Oregon.
We're only taking registered Oregon voter signatures on this.
We need all of our signatures by the end of June.
So if you have petitions, please mail them back to us right away.
If you don't have petitions, we'll send them to you.
Call us at 503-235-4606 if you're outside the Portland area.
If you're in Portland, call us at 235-4606.
Yeah, and we need your help, and we need your signatures.
If you got just one, you know, this is the filled out sheet, which is beautiful to see.
It's a beautiful sight.
Hallelujah.
But if you only have two or three signatures on there, or even your own, we still need that.
Mail that back in today, you know, because every signature counts.
And there's a lot of folks out there that can only get one or two signatures, and that's great.
You know, maybe you can go and get your friend's signature or your partner's signature, and that would be fabulous.
But give us a call, and if you have questions, there'll be somebody there hopefully to answer the phone.
If not, leave a message, and we'll get back to you.
You know, we need your help getting us on the ballot.
We want to create our vision here in Oregon, our vision of cannabis back to where it should be,
restored to its rightful place, and one of the many things that humans can use for medicine, for food, for fuel,
for fiber, and for recreation.
So let's restore that, folks, by giving us a call at 503-235-4606, restore cannabis to its rightful place.
And we can make it happen here, like Sister Icy's doing up in Vancouver.
We can make it happen here.
Yes, we'd love to send you this petition, so ask for it right away.
Just in closing here in the final minute, I'd like to mention that on May 19th, there will be a primary,
and if you live in inner southeast Portland in House District 14,
I am a candidate for the Democratic nomination for state representative from House District 14.
I want to abolish the income tax on those making less than $40,000 a year.
I want to establish ecological sustainability taxes, and of course, I want to tax and regulate marijuana
out of the hands of kids and substance abusers, put it in the liquor stores where the age limit of 21 is strictly enforced,
which is what the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act will do.
So give us a call.
Get this petition.
It's 235-4606.
We need your help to make it a better community.
Thanks, folks.
Thanks for watching.
Tune in next week for another exciting edition of Cannabis Common Sense.
Bye.
