I believe that any effort to bring compassion to Ohio is a good thing.
I am a medical marijuana patient in the state of Ohio, like Lonnie said, and I support all efforts being made to bring compassion.
I am a patient in an e-waste state. We've got to stop that, and we've got to make it to where I don't have to be afraid for using and making a tree.
It makes no sense. Folks need to get a grip, quit being so afraid of a plant.
We've got House Bill 214 introduced by State Representative Kenny Yucco and State Representative Bobby Hagin.
So Ohio's got a lot of exciting things going on right now.
We're trying to do it legislative-wise, which I've been begging to get our legislators to stand up.
So now we've got two very different constitutional amendments.
One way or another, Ohio's going to get it, whether we get our legislators to do it or whether we bring it to the people, because Ohio wants it.
Two weeks ago, I was hospitalized with calcium deposits on my brain.
They did a test on me and saw that my brain was covered.
What I've come to find out over the past few years that I've been in this activism and in this movement is that marijuana or cannabis or pot or whatever you call it, or choose to call it,
is actually a neuroprotective and an antioxidant.
It can protect what brain I've got that isn't damaged from the calcium deposits that's surrounding my brain right now.
I don't have cancer. I can't go get chemotherapy.
So this fight has even become even more personal because now it's a life or death situation.
I knew that with my big, long list of health conditions and stuff that cannabis treated a lot of those symptoms.
But now it can actually protect what brain I've got left.
So what I'm hoping to do is get folks on a national level to stand up and do what's right, because right now I think it's y'all that's going to save my life.
Your brain controls everything, and I think I should deserve a chance at fighting for my life, even though our government says no.
They wouldn't lie to us, though, would they?
You know, they own patents on cannabinoids as neuroprotectants and antioxidants, and they've had that since 2003.
How dare them to deny anyone the right to use something that's safer than aspirin, actually?
I have enough problems with my health that I shouldn't have to worry about being prosecuted and terrified, terrorized by our local law enforcement or even our federal law enforcement.
So the House Bill 214, the Ohio Medical Cannabis Act of 2012, the Ohio Alternative Treatment Amendment.
I'd say that's progress for Ohio. I'd say that we're moving in the right direction.
So keep us in your prayers, keep us in your thoughts, and stand up and do what's right.
I'm going to turn the mic over because we've got a lot of wonderful folks that need to give their point of view.
But thank you for giving me a voice.
Thank you for coming to this wonderful Seattle.
Thank you for inviting me to Seattle.
God bless you.
