Hi, my name is Brave Mikaela and I kicked cancer's butt.
With the help of cannabis oil, I have finished treatments six months ago.
Thank you all for the love and support.
Peace, love, cure.
Hi, thank you so much for being here today.
My name is Erin Purchase and I am Mikaela's mom.
I am also a cannabis activist.
I've been an activist long before she got cancer.
That's how I knew to give her cannabis oil ten days after she was diagnosed.
I think it's important that all patients get this oil right when they are diagnosed.
Because she never even lost a single pound going through chemotherapy.
Never had to take a Tylenol and had a smile on her face every day.
I think it's important that every child and adult have that right.
In order to do that, we have to get our doctors on board.
In order to do that, we need to change the law at a federal level.
Congratulations, Oregon, for legalizing at a state level. That's great.
If we can get more states to do that, maybe we can overturn federal law.
It is very, very, very important to my family that we overturn this federal law and research has begun.
Mikaela has a very rare form of acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
It has a low survival rate, 75%.
I didn't have to worry about that because I had cannabis oil.
Most families don't have that.
They have a lot of anxiety as they are going through treatments.
Not only do they have a lot of anxiety, they are dealing with a child who is suffering.
With a feeding tube in their nose.
They have to stay in the hospital sometimes over a year.
We had 14 days in a hospital and the only reason my daughter ever had to stay in the hospital
was because they forced me to give her drugs that put her there.
She had two allergic reactions.
One of them almost killed her because of their medicine that she did not need.
In order to prove that she did not need it, we have to change the federal law.
Also, at a county level and a local level, you are all very important.
Oregon has legalized cannabis, but they have also imposed a lot of regulations that affect patients like Mikaela.
They have limited our medical marijuana grows now inside city limits to 12 plants.
That's two patients.
We went from being able to grow from four patients to two.
They have not passed that bill yet, but they are very close to passing it.
Come to Salem. We are there Mondays and Wednesdays at 5 p.m.
We need your help. We need your support.
We need you to tell them we don't want to change things like this.
Another thing you can do is go to your county and city commissioner meetings.
I have been to Clackamas County commissioner meetings every single month.
And I will tell you what, as you guys are rushing out finding warehouses,
they are imposing regulations to zone you out.
Get to your county commissioner meetings.
Stop looking for a warehouse. Stop looking for commercial property.
And get to your legislators and your representatives and start talking to them about what you want to do.
Not only what you want to do for the marijuana industry, but what you want to do for our community.
Because if you don't support your community, they are not going to support you.
Please support your community. Get out there. Make a difference.
Present yourself appropriately and support this plan.
And let's get somewhere because I don't want kids to suffer and I just proved that they don't have to.
She's done. She's in remission. She's alive.
More people need to know this. More doctors need to support this.
More politicians need to be on our side.
Let's support the other industries, the other movements, the other civil rights movements.
It will help our industry make it further.
I want to say thank you so much to Stony Girl Gardens.
I'm now working with them. They're giving me the opportunity to speak on your behalf.
They also made the oil that saved my daughter's life.
And for that, I can't thank them enough.
So thank you Jen and Mike Mullins, Jennifer Valley and Mike Mullins and Stony Girl Gardens.
You guys mean the world to me. Thank you.
