Because you know as we all know
Alcohol prohibition didn't really end until the women got involved and I believe that's true for cannabis prohibition, too
So I although I'm not speaking just to the women today
I really strongly suggest that it's time for women to step up and stand next to our brothers who have been fighting this fight for
40 years it's time for it to end
People may not know it but cannabis prohibition is over. It's over
It's just a matter of time and I keep hearing these large organizations tell us to wait till
2014 wait till 2016. I'm tired of my brothers and sisters getting put in jail
I'm tired of kids being taken from their families because they choose to use a perfectly safe
Intoxicant after work. I am tired of being scrutinized for
Using a benign plant as my way to relax in the evening, and I don't want to wait till
2014 I don't want to wait till
2016 so I am calling my state legislature every day and I am telling them
It's time for them to support and pass
HB
3371 that legalizes cannabis for all of us that doesn't leave anybody out. You don't have to have PTSD
You don't have to have a card. You don't have to do anything but be over 21
Works for me, right
We can do this now if every one of you makes the call we can do this now
I can give you the number pull out your phones. I'll wait
Pull out your phones. I'll wait. I'll give you the number to call right now
You ready? Here we go. It's free to call 800
3 3 2
2 3 1 3
That number again is 800
3 3 2
2 3 1 3
Call it give them your zip code when they hook you up with your representative. You just have to say one sentence
Please support and pass
HB
3371 that ends it for all of us
And it ends it now that bill creates an emergency situation
Which would enact the law immediately
That means we don't have to wait till MPP says we can do it in
2016 that means we don't have to wait till normal says we can do it in
2014 that means we can do it now. All you guys got to do is call. That's all
It won't take a huge amount of us to make those calls to make this happen
Because they take the impact of those phone calls as being the voice of 20 of us
So imagine that people every one of you out here all hundred of you or however
Many there are by you making the call you represent 20 more of us
By making that call you represent 20 fellow cannabis consumers. So let's make this happen now
Let's not wait. I don't want to wait. I don't want people to go to jail anymore for weed. It's stupid
It's cost inefficient and it's just plain wrong. So please join me and call
800 3 3 2 2 3 1 3
