Hello and welcome to another exciting edition of Cannabis Common Sense.
Cannabis Common Sense is a production of our political committee, the Campaign for
the Restoration and Regulation of Hemp and we're circulating this petition, the
Oregon Cannabis Tax Act. I would now like to introduce our attorney, our chief
petitioner, my fellow chief petitioner actually, the treasurer of our political
committee and the president of the Oregon Wildlife Federation, Mr. Paul Loney.
Well thanks Paul and that's Paul Stanford if you haven't guessed yet. But
the Campaign for the Restoration and Regulation of Hemp, we have an initiative
out there which Paul is displaying proudly. It's the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act.
This initiative is a comprehensive regulation of marijuana. It will allow
medical patients to purchase marijuana at cost in pharmacies with a prescription
from a doctor. It would allow our farmers to grow industrial hemp, the low
THC variety, and it will allow recreational cannabis to be sold for
profit at state liquor stores with the money going into our state coffers to
lower all of our tax rates of course. And part of the proceeds will then go into
funding real drug education programs and real substance abuse programs. Yeah for
the alcoholics and addicts that need help and you know currently 90% of the
alcoholics who seek treatment can't get it. They're turned away. So we'll fund
that with millions, maybe tens of millions of dollars. It's real hard to
quantify what the black market will do, but we need your help to put this
important issue on the ballot. Right now as we're taping in early April, we have
about 24,000 signatures. We need at least 50,000 more, really a good segment more
than that, no later than the end of June. So if you're one of the people who's
been watching this show for over a year now that it's been on and you've
received our petitions or you have them, send them back in to us right away. If
you need petitions, call us at 503-235-4606. If you're inside the
Portland area, just 235-4606 because we want to send you these
petitions. We need them back no later than the end of June. That's right. We
need those petitions as soon as possible. If you only have one or two signatures on
them, send them back in. In tonight's show, once again we continue to show you
parts of our recent journey up to Vancouver BC, the marijuana breadbasket
of the Pacific Northwest, and the leader in the emerging cannabis culture. We will
continue with Mark Emery, the founder of Hemp BC and still a publisher of
Cannabis Canada, the magazine all about the cannabis culture.
And we still have, let's see, we have, what is Mark going to be talking about in this
one? He's going to talk about the politics behind the prohibition and
other issues regarding what's going on up there in Canada. You know, he's been
selling marijuana seeds quite openly. In fact, he's been quoted on the front
page with a picture on the Wall Street Journal. Well, actually it's not a picture
in Wall Street Journal, Paul. It's one of those drawings. That's what, that's all
they have in the Wall Street Journal, but still if you're going to get anything in
the Wall Street Journal, it's going to be one of those little etch-a-sketch drawings.
Well, just to be perfectly truthful here. Right, it's not a photograph, but it's a
picture, a line drawing, but it's there in the Wall Street Journal. He's been in
Rolling Stone over the past few months. He's been on CNN. He's been out there, and
in fact, he is the world's most famous marijuana smoker. I've got to say, when I
was up there at HempBC, I got to sample some of the finest in British Columbia's
herb, and it's a big tourist draw. He's really cleaned up his neighborhood, too.
Yeah, that's the, one of the kind of real encouraging things is that with his
cannabis cafe and his retail store and the legal assistance center all being on
one block up there in West Hastings, he has turned that block around from being
a block full of down-on-its-luck, dirty, boarded-up stores, yeah, panhandlers
everywhere, and a lot of hard drug addicts and alcoholics on the street. Now,
it's a bustling, friendly street. That's true. All of his neighbors in the
surrounding area support him and thank him for building up the area, improving
the area, and bringing thousands of tourists streaming right into the
edge of Gastown in downtown Vancouver. Yeah, and I think it's probably about time to
go to the interview, and this part of the interview, he's going to be talking about
people who have had to leave the United States because of political pressure,
because that they were growers, or because they were outspoken against the
government, who had to leave and carried up the strains that were developed in
California, Oregon, Washington, up to Canada, and continued on with their
experiments up there. I think it's a quite fascinating process of what
happened, and just, so I think without further ado, go to the interview.
And I could be like some poor bastards that I know who, and my first rate of a
wonderful man named Will Smith came up here from Oklahoma, and he just got popped
back in his own place. Yeah, and he's in jail for 95 years, and he's a, no, no, no, no,
my friend Will Smith got, he had four, 42 plants allegedly, and he
agreed to go back because they said they wouldn't forfeit his property, which his
family still lives in, his children and his wife, and he got 20 years for 42
plants, and they figured he'll serve about seven to ten, oh how nice, 42 fucking
plants. Man, I've tripped over 42 fucking plants in some people's grow rooms, I
mean, I've had easily 42 plants in my own grow rooms, and around here you might get
$500 to $1,000 fine for that. 20 years of a man's life, can you imagine? There's no
society so sick as would do that, and yet there is, it's called the United States of
America, and it's a bad, bad place, and there's thousands of Americans up here
who are weed refugees who have fled that. In fact, George Van Patten's up here
living now, writing about Canadian grow operations, and so many people have come
up here, and it's been great, that's how we got our great pot in the first place,
American War Resisters came up here from 1968 to 1972, and they bought all their
best strains with them, they settled in British Columbia, and they gave British
Columbia, which had no particular reputation for ever growing any good pot,
they gave it a fabulous gene pool to produce the world's greatest pot, and
these people stayed, and we continued to cultivate, and the situation got
hospitable here, and more so in the courts, and over time we end up
revolving towards the greatest pot, and of course a lot of stuff they sell in
Amsterdam is produced out of Seattle, Oregon, and British Columbia, more these
days out of British Columbia, because there's more work going on here in the
sense of genetics, breeding, crossing, things are happening so much faster
here in the United States, because there's really...
They've been crushed.
Yeah, exactly, well, hey, money is a great coward, and what happened is the expertise
in the money went north, where if you were smart, and you wanted to grow pot,
this is where you'd grow it, and that's what's happened, so Portland, of course
they've recriminalized marijuana there, at least that's...
Well, we stopped it.
Yeah, thank goodness about that, but that would be a terrible backward step,
terrible backward step for Oregon, that would really place it in the backwaters
again, like Oklahoma, Texas, where your face would be put in the rest of your
life in jail, growing pot, and why bother?
My advice is just come up here.
You don't need to show people you're American or Canadian, you just need to
show them the cash.
As that Cuba Gooding line goes, show me the money, it's still pretty relevant
anywhere, and just get an Asian landlord, they don't bother you, they never ask
questions, and they're nice people, and you should deal with them.
The white people are too fucking nosy, they're a pain in the ass, go with Asians.
That's why those white supremacists are wrong right there to pot growers,
you can't count on whitey to help you out here, they're the people that turn you in,
they're calling 911, it's not the Chinese guys, it's not the East Indian guys,
they don't want anybody knowing what they're doing either, so they're just
going to shut up, and everybody's got their own private business, except the
white people seem to think that they have a right to be everybody's business,
in my opinion, and so you've got to go for an Asian landlord, and people have
good success with that.
I see.
We'll get some immigrants who see this show, you never know.
We'll probably get lots, we get them all the time, they show up here,
and next thing you know they're acting like Canadians, they're Americans at heart,
you can always tell because they're noisy if you give them a chance,
but you tell them, you remember, if you get caught, yeah you won't go to jail,
but you'll get deported, remember you get to go back to America, that's
punishment enough, so don't be so American.
Because they tend to be a little more pushy, brassy, nothing like a New Yorker
when you meet them on a holiday, you can always spot them,
the loudest, coarsest, they look like they never relaxed,
they never went on holiday there.
But most Americans actually are pretty good, but when you're in a foreign
country growing pie, you don't really want to draw anybody's attention,
if you can avoid it.
But even then, we've got some guys who are American who are going to be
deported, we got them out, and they've got a refugee status claim going.
We've got the Soos, who's from Oregon himself, who invented Product 19,
or developed it, he's a grower here, he's now having refugee hearings,
and they've accepted initially his claim that he's a weed refugee,
which is what our claim is, that he would face substantial penalties
going back to the United States that are unreasonable, cruel, and unusual,
which we can get here, and that's the basis of a claim.
Because cultivators don't go to jail here, in first or second offense.
It doesn't matter how big your crop is, whereas in America you're facing
10 years, that could easily be construed as cruel and unusual punishment.
I know many people who have unfortunately been locked away right now.
Send them our way, don't let them go to jail for that.
America's not worth sticking around for 5 or 10 years in prison.
Being a guest of the United States government in that situation,
it's worth deciding to look for greener pastures.
And they're here.
So is there any backlash at all you see for anybody talking about
weed immigrants coming up to Vancouver?
Nope, never had a single complaint from the public, I've never had a letter,
never seen a letter, never seen a letter in the newspaper, never seen
any kind of criticism about marijuana basically from the general public at all.
You know, the people you see criticism from are always cops,
they're always trying to spread some bizarre propaganda
because it props up their own industry.
And the urine testing people, you know, the people who are these counsellors,
the world's plagued with counsellors, drug abuse counsellors,
who say, I see marijuana addicts every day in my office.
I'm thinking, yeah, but it's like the Rape Crisis Council,
all you see is rape victims all day, but hey, not everybody works the way you do,
we don't just all see victims all day long.
The rest of us are out in the real world, where we've got thousands of people
with no dependency problems, they don't abuse people, they're not harmed.
So in the general public, you tend to meet 99% of the public
knows how to conduct themselves properly, and then 1% doesn't,
and that's who these people see.
They see the people who couldn't handle reality, and they end up with you.
Alcoholic, heroin users, whatever.
I mean, any guy who goes in and says, I'm addicted to pot,
he's really looking for a rationalisation, because why, what do you do?
Well, I don't get up. Well, you're a fucking lazy son of a bitch.
So stop smoking pot and get to work. End of story.
He's not addicted, he's just fucking lazy.
He was lazy before he smoked pot, he's lazy when he smokes pot,
and he'll be a lazy fuck after he quits pot, too.
But they blame pot because, it's like parents,
when they're teenagers, it's not my son anymore, he's changed,
he's hanging around with hippie chicks and smoking pot,
and going to dissenting movies and rallies, and he's not the kid I took fishing in.
Yeah, well, what happens, he grew up, and now he's on his own,
and you don't like it, so you're blaming all the peripherals.
It could be vegetarianism, it could be nudism, it could be marijuana,
whatever he's doing that you don't know, that you didn't do, rather,
that's affecting his, that's a symptom of his new way of living,
you're going to blame that, not your son.
He's not changing or anything.
He's not becoming an adult and making his own mind up.
It's the drugs, or something like that, whatever.
Or the most common one with my mom was blaming my girlfriend.
He was such a nice boy until he started going out with all those women.
They changed him, right? Whatever.
I'm a scapegoat for a lot of people. I always laugh when I hear that.
Invariably, it's some drug counselor guy.
I see victims of marijuana, and yeah, well, what are you?
You're probably a former alco yourself, isn't that right?
And I said, what are you doing with your living?
So you parlayed your alcoholism into a life-career opportunity.
Well, that's really interesting, sounds like a cop.
You know, go around and morally lecture people, and if they don't listen,
you crack their skull and you get paid for it.
I said, that's very interesting. I said, you have the problem, but we're made to pay.
So you get to lecture us about our supposed problem, which nobody said we have one,
but you're clearly unable to handle yourself, so you've got a job as a counselor
because you've got lots of experience being a dick.
Anyway, the world's full of people making a paycheck on something wrong.
I'd like to ask, is there any part of Vancouver area that the weed refugees are moving to?
Well, you intend to be an East fan because every third house is a grow-op there.
A South fan is a little more expensive and a better place to be because it's more residential.
But then, see, the problem is to have a grow-op in a lot of places,
you've got to look like you're normal.
You've got to show up, you've got to be sweet to your neighbours,
you've got to sort of hang out, it'd be great if you had kids living there, that's a good cover.
But bottom line is you tend not to. The house tends to be all one big fucking grow operation
that you've rented out, and you don't really want people coming around, you don't want to see them.
So it's a bit of an art, but fortunately, be grateful we don't get all the government we pay for,
as Will Rogers said, because they'd have more cops.
And basically, the cops can't keep up even if they bust someone every fucking day
in the Lower Mainland, they certainly do.
That's peanuts. Maybe in all of the Lower Mainland they get like a thousand grow operations.
Well, there's at least 125,000 grow operations in the whole Lower Mainland.
It's like way beyond what they can... they'll never catch them all.
And they keep raising the threshold.
Well, if it's under 20 plants, we can't bother with it.
If it's under 30 plants, we can't bother.
Well, now it's under like 100 plants we can't bother with
because we know hundreds of places that have more than 100 plants.
And like, you know, they stack them up and they keep whittling them down
and the threshold keeps rising.
And basically, the way to defeat this is that more and more people have got to grow pot.
Don't worry about whether it's illegal, don't worry about what's going to happen.
Grow more pot because you're forcing the threshold up.
If a whole bunch of people start growing 25, 50 plants, then, you know, it's got to be like 200 plants are over
to make it worth their while, right?
So it's your own protection just by forcing the numbers up.
Get that pot out there, you know?
And of course, even...
All right, and we're back.
Back to remind you that this interview is brought to you by the campaign for the restoration and regulation of hemp.
And we have an initiative out there that we need your help on.
The Oregon Cannabis Tax Act, which will allow adults to grow their own marijuana.
It will tax the sale of marijuana to adults through state liquor stores,
licensed bars and taverns to sell marijuana to adults.
It will allow doctors to prescribe marijuana to patients
and allow farmers to cultivate industrial hemp to produce paper, fabric, protein and oil.
We want to send you this petition, so call us right now if you're registered to vote in Oregon
or an Oregon resident.
Call us at 503-235-4606.
That's 503-235-4606.
Yeah, call us and we need your help getting signatures.
We already have the initiative and got a couple signatures on it.
Send it on back in.
We need them soon. End of June is the drop dead deadline.
If we get enough signatures, get on the ballot, get the pass,
maybe we can start improving genetics here.
Like Mark Emery set up in Vancouver.
Up there now, they're part of the world's leader in genetic experiments on hemp and cannabis.
Well, that's where Oregon used to be and we want to be back there.
So if you can give us a call, put us on the ballot, and it passes, we can be back in that boat.
We're talking about a real economic boom, I think.
You know, the tourist industry is going to boom, the farmers are going to boom.
There's just tons of economic potential here that we can channel with the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act.
Well, a lot of good, I think, the old-fashioned mom and pop businesses will come out of this.
And I think it's, you know, if we have this regulated here in Oregon,
where we can have stores, we can have cafes,
I think a lot of small businesses will come out of it that people who don't want to work for the big corporations
or the government or whatever can actually get behind this
and, you know, make a money off it at the same time supporting the government.
Right, we'll raise hundreds of millions of dollars in tax revenue for the state,
which means less tax dollars that they'll need from the rest of us.
So help us with the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act.
Call us right now to get our petition at 235-4606.
If you're outside the Portland area, that's 503-235-4606.
If you're one of those people with access to the internet,
check out our website at http://www.crrh.org.
Yeah, and check out the webpage, give us a call.
If you need to call during business hours, usually Bruce will be there to help you answer any questions
all about the initiative.
If you're not quite sure how to fill it out, call us up and we'll let you know.
We'll send you a package in the mail.
We usually have instructions, but sometimes, you know, those are,
sometimes those aren't as clear as they should be, but if you talk to a human...
If you need help, call us.
Yeah, and we'll be happy to walk you through it and at least get your name on the initiative.
And if you can then go out and get one or two of your friends.
We need everybody to get as many signatures as possible.
Call 235-4606. Don't delay, do it right now.
And we're going to cut back to this wonderful interview with Mark Emery.
We went up to Vancouver, British Columbia, and spoke with him.
You've got to admit that Mark Emery tells it like it is and puts his opinions out there.
So, back to that interview.
All right.
You know, and of course the Americans are always really good.
They buy up everything, you know, and people say,
well, what happens when everybody's growing pot and we can't get rid of it?
I said, it'll never happen, because there's always America.
And America has an endless appetite for things that they shouldn't have, can't get, or whatever, you know.
America's just an endless appetite.
You could never build enough casinos.
You could never have enough drugs for America.
You could never have enough marijuana for America.
You could never have enough French fries for America.
There's just a lot of things in America you could never give them enough of.
So, to me, America's just one endless place to put pot,
when they'll always have lots of American money, you know,
because pot's a universal commodity.
Everybody wants it. It's saleable everywhere.
You know, before Prohibition, before America made marijuana illegal,
you know, you could get pot in maybe three or four places in the world,
India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, and it was exported to the world from there for the few people that wanted it.
When it was made illegal in Canada in 1923, there was no known record of everybody ever having smoked pot.
No one's ever written about it.
No one's ever been recorded. No one's made any testimony.
There's no evidence that it was ever grown here for marijuana.
It was grown for hemp all over the place, right?
But nobody grew it for pot.
Well, then they made it illegal.
Now it grows in every village, every hamlet, every city, every town.
I know a guy growing north of the Arctic Circle in Frobisher Bay with 2,000 watts of light,
and he has an RCMP visit every three months.
He's got to take it all down.
The whole growing thing is timed cyclically to match that RCMP visit,
so he can take it all down, put it away, put it back up when he goes.
I mean, we've got guys growing in the most inhospitable environment on Earth,
as well as every other country, nation, province, place on Earth.
They're growing pot thanks to America's prohibition.
So one thing's for sure, if it weren't...
I've already found a few plants in the Antarctic.
If it were, I wouldn't be surprised.
I mean, after all, why not? That sun there would be great.
That'd be an excellent...
When the ozone layer is deteriorating, then you put that pot under there,
because it will thrive, and it will, of course, replace the ozone layer that's lost
by adding more carbon dioxide, sorry, more oxygen to the environment,
and giving it, you know, excellent, excellent thing to grow under when you've got ozone depletions.
You just grow endless amounts of marijuana.
And that will begin to reverse the cycle.
But now pot grows everywhere.
Every place in the world has pot.
Every street on Vancouver has 5 to 25 grow operations.
Cops will tell you, they can go down the street and tell you about every third one,
which is a grow-up.
They know them, they can't even get the time to bust them, right?
In some rural areas around British Columbia, they're not even doing that.
They just call up and say, listen, you landlord says you're growing pot.
You've got to have it done by tomorrow, I'm coming by.
Right? So that means you've got to rip it all out and take it.
And it comes by, okay. Maybe it doesn't come by.
You rip it down, yeah, okay.
Because he doesn't really want to bother you, but on the other hand, he knows it exists.
So he's calling you.
Now, of course, that's actually unconstitutional, because that constitutes a fishing expert.
You can just call him and say, we know you've got pot in there.
And like, one out of ten, one out of five people go, Jesus Christ!
That would be kind of a good April Fool's joke, you know?
This is Officer McGillicuddy here, and, you know,
actually it would be a sadistic April Fool's joke.
Yeah. I don't recommend that.
Yeah, I don't either.
Especially if they get Vista 2000, and they say who it is,
go home, your ass is grass, man.
I'm going to get you.
Anyway, I'm surprised more of that doesn't go on.
There's a wonderful song by Céblane called Those Crazy Fools.
And it's about putting a bullet in the people that call 911 to turn us in.
And I think that's an interesting thing worth considering, to one degree.
I said, because there's nothing more evil than someone in a so-called free society
who would turn you in at the risk of going to jail for five or ten years over a gardening project.
You should deal with those people harshly.
So, you know, I have certainly no sympathy for informers and people that drop dying, you know,
and cause great untold misery.
Those people should be dealt with harshly.
And I think that's a good thing.
And I think that's a good thing.
And I think that's a good thing.
And I think that's a good thing.
I certainly advocate a little Private Vigilante American Cell justice for those people.
I certainly advocate a little Private Vigilante American Cell justice for those people.
And, you know, others who involved...
I'm always amazed.
Nobody with rocket launchers brings these helicopters down.
As if they're not going to find you.
That helicopter is coming down.
It will be hours before they comb the air and look for some guy with a rocket launcher in his hand.
So I don't know.
I'm amazed.
We are all these militia guys.
We don't need it.
What the fuck are you waiting for?
You've got the police.
Be a hero now.
You'll be 20 million Americans will silently
thank your praises.
I mean, what else do you want out of living here?
These military marshal guys, get in there and raise some shit.
Take down what needs to be done, the US military.
Do them in.
That is a big enough challenge for those guys.
They're like Rambo.
They're on the tough guy.
I'm a tough guy.
I've got all these weapons.
Well, get to fucking work.
America's out there, and it needs to be destroyed.
Now get to it.
Jesus Christ, sending you guys with fertilizer bombs,
blowing up FBI headquarters.
Good idea, originally.
But then there's people and kids there.
Like, what's that?
What, you couldn't have waited until there was a big staff
meeting or something?
You know, I mean, what was the problem there?
I mean, stupid mass justice seekers like that.
America needs a training course on how to properly execute
government officials.
You can always edit this later.
Of course, this is just the humorous outtake.
We're the radical friends.
I don't know.
It makes you wonder.
You know, you've had helicopters over Humboldt County
for 20 years, and nobody's decided
that they wanted to test out all that surplus they
brought back from NAMM?
Come on.
The only time I ever heard of them doing a helicopter
was in the Oregon Coast Range.
And they were spraying herbicides for the new forest
to help the new trees grow up.
And that was making people sick.
And also, of course, they had little grove up
in the woods at that time there.
But they actually blew up one helicopter on a pad
at that time.
Good for them.
On a pad, that's good.
Safe, preventable.
Nobody dies.
That's right.
They did it nice and professionally.
Yeah, no, see, there should be more of that.
I don't understand what happened
to the proper green revolutionaries.
And then you have it like the IRA.
You have on one hand political guys like us
advocating in the public.
And then you have a bunch of crazed guys
who will blow up anything government-owned that's
dealing with attacking the marijuana industry.
And then you have them totally paranoid on one hand.
They could die at any moment.
And then on the other hand, you've
got smooth talkers like me trying
to negotiate in the public realm with a little bit of help
from our armed buddies out there.
I mean, nobody would be listening to that Sheen Finn
guy now if they weren't like blasting people's kneecaps
the last 20 years.
How they want to end that, right?
So the American government understands
they're in a war when they fight back.
Because I notice you guys lose when
you have a determined opponent, like in Vietnam.
And who else has kicked your ass lately?
Lately, America's been really good on guys like Iraq.
Like real, only brought into the 20th century
about a decade ago.
So you know, but they lost again.
So I'm thinking, I think in America, somebody
that could be beaten, because the rot from within
is so extensive.
Actually, I'm just giving you a hard time.
Don't worry about it.
That's OK.
Yeah, yeah.
That's good.
We're riffing now.
This is just the outtake for your party.
Hey, let's listen.
Amory's in some funny things here.
Let's show you this stuff.
And we're going to put that out there, so those articles
can take off.
Yeah, but you might lose your cable access.
Amory's brought to you by the Campaign for the Restoration
and Regulation of Hemp.
The sponsors are the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act,
which is in Paul's hands.
Yes, the Oregon Cannabis Tax Act will tax and regulate
the sale of marijuana to adults.
It will allow adults to grow their own.
It will allow farmers to cultivate marijuana
for sales through liquor stores and bars and taverns.
It will also allow medical patients
to have access to marijuana at cost,
where marijuana sold to adults will be taxed.
It will also allow farmers to cultivate hemp
for paper, fabric, protein, oil, and just tons of things.
Yeah, it's a great thing.
I mean, that's a fabulous interview with Mark Amory.
He tells it like he sees it, doesn't he?
Exactly.
I mean, he's just a visionary.
And he's had a lot of success up there in Vancouver, BC.
And it's time for us here to put our vision into action.
And give us a call at 503-235-4606.
That's 503-235-4606.
And let us send you these petitions
and have you fill them out.
If you have any questions, give us a call.
And if you have petitions that are already filled out
or with a few signatures, send them back as soon as possible.
End of June's coming before you know it.
And it's always one of those things like, oh, gee,
here it is, July.
I forgot to send them in.
That always happens every campaign.
And I sure hope we don't get calls in the middle of July
saying, oh, I had a couple of thousand
which would have put us over the top, but I didn't send them in.
So please send them in today.
Don't forget.
Exactly.
Our campaign to date has been almost entirely volunteer.
But now we are actually paying petitioners.
So if you need work or you know someone who needs work,
call us at 503-235-4606.
We're paying petitioners now.
However, if you want to help us as a volunteer, please do.
Paul and I are both volunteers.
We donate our time and talents and money to help this cause.
But a lot of people can't do that.
A lot of people have to be reimbursed
for their expenses and their time.
So if you need to be a paid petitioner,
call us right now at 503-235-4606.
Or if you're a volunteer, call us there.
Send them back, though.
Send them now if you have them.
Yeah, well, definitely.
We need volunteers because who knows how long before the money
well dries up and we can't pay people.
Right now, we're fortunate.
We could pay a few folks.
However, we still need, we're probably
going to end up with a majority of our signatures being
volunteer.
That's just the way it's going to happen.
And so we need yours.
Don't think that's because we're paying
a few folks for the moment.
We don't need your one or two signatures.
We do.
We really, really do.
So please give us a call.
Send back petitions.
503-235-4606.
That's 503-235-4606.
And what can I say?
Send the petitions back.
Send them back in because we need them.
If you send them back right away,
we'll mail you new petitions.
You know, we've got a new petition format.
So dial that number.
In closing, I'd like to say that if you
live in inner southeast Portland or inner northeast Portland
and you're in House District 14, I'm running as a Democrat.
The Democratic primary is on May 19,
which is coming up any day now.
And if you are registered as a Democrat
or you're not registered with the party as an independent,
vote for me, D. Paul Stanford, in the Democratic primary
on May 19.
Thanks, folks.
And we'll see you next time.
Get the Oregon cannabis tax.
