Exactly.
We've had HempFest in the past, but some
of the folks who were organizing it just
couldn't do it this year.
But the ones up in Seattle have traditionally been a lot larger.
So watch next month, and we'll have
some coverage of that for you.
I think now's a good time to go down to the Saturday market.
If you just want to sign the petition,
don't want us to send it to you, what you can do
is you can come down to our booth
down at Portland Saturday Market.
There are also petitioners at the Eugene Saturday Market.
And there you can sign the petition.
And so we have a little interview
with the other chief petitioner.
Paul and I are both chief petitioners on the Oregon
Cannabis Tax Act.
But our other chief petitioner is Dr. Philip Levesque,
a retired professor of pharmacology and toxicology
that taught up here at the current OHSU,
also taught at Georgetown University
and a number of other universities around the world.
So without any further ado, here's
an interview with Dr. Levesque down at our Portland Saturday
Market booth.
You're welcome to come down and sign our petition, the Oregon
Cannabis Tax Act.
And today we have one of our chief petitioners
at our booth, Dr. Philip Levesque.
Dr. Levesque is a retired professor of pharmacology
and a lobbyist for AARP, the American
Association of Retired Persons.
Hello, Dr. Levesque.
Good afternoon.
Tell us why you decided to be a chief petitioner
to regulate the sale of marijuana to adults
and allow doctors to prescribe it through pharmacies.
I practice medicine in Malala.
And I found out either directly or indirectly
that many of my patients were not only
using my prescriptions for the control of pain,
but they were also smoking marijuana.
So I did an investigation of my own
and found out that marijuana has been used for thousands
of years and very effectively for a whole variety
of different kinds of problems.
Would you tell us what your credentials are?
I have a PhD in pharmacology, and I'm an osteopathic doctor.
I taught pharmacology and toxicology
for approximately 30 years.
All right, well, we really thank you again
for being a chief petitioner.
We need people with your types of credentials to sign on.
Is there anything you'd like to tell our television audience?
Sign this petition and get this back on the ballot.
We had two votes to make marijuana
available for medical purposes.
It's time that the hypocrisy quit,
and we make it available not only for medical purposes,
but also for recreational purposes, which it
is being used for right now.
But a person who uses for recreational purposes
and is caught by the police could lose his home, his car,
his bank accounts, any of his assets that he had.
This will correct that.
Well, thank you again.
Appreciate it.
All right, thanks.
So there we were down at the Saturday market.
We invite you to come on down to the Saturday market.
We also invite you to just call us.
If you don't want to head down to the Saturday market,
we'll send it to you.
We'd be happy to do that.
Call us at 235-4606.
If you're outside of the Portland area, that's 503-235-4606.
We have positions available for paid petitioners
in both Oregon and Washington.
And we have our regular volunteer campaign
that we'd love for you to be involved in.
So give us a call.
Yeah, and you saw a little bit of Saturday market there.
Come on down.
I mean, especially if you can come down
and you want to sign it and you don't know anybody else who
will sign it with you, instead of us mailing you one
and costing us a postage stamp and then you a postage stamp
mail in the back, come on down.
Enjoy the fun of Saturday market.
Meet some fellow activists and sign a petition.
And who knows, maybe Dr. Levesque
will be there because he's a real colorful character, really
knowledgeable in his field of pharmacology and toxicology.
Talks over my head sometimes.
And you can meet some dedicated volunteers
who've been on the street talking with people all the
time, like Floyd Landreth, who's down there
almost every Saturday.
He sees the direct impact that our prohibition
has on your fellow citizens, on your neighbors,
because he's out there helping folks
who are trapped in that vicious cycle of prohibition.
So come on down.
And he does needle exchange.
So the folks who are addicted to hard drugs
go to Floyd five days a week.
And they exchange needles, which keeps the neighborhoods clean,
at least around there.
You don't find used needles laying around in the gutter
because the folks can go trade them in for new ones for free.
So it's a really valuable public service.
And he gives out free food to folks, too.
Yeah, so it provides a little community for people.
Yeah.
There's a story out of a German language paper out of Luxembourg.
In the Luxembourg policy, they announce a new drug policy
for Luxembourg.
These changes were agreed upon by the main political parties
there, the Christian Democrats and the liberal Democrats.
And it's their intention to enshrine a newly defined
health-based drug policy into law.
Current policies won't be changed as much as extended
and strengthened and made official.
It says hardcore addicts will be given heroin
and put into the methadone program.
And that penalties for consumption of soft drugs,
another word for marijuana and hashish,
will be reduced to a fine.
Judges will be empowered to reduce the penalties
if accompanied by therapy courses, it says.
Of course, this is translated from German,
so it's a little rough here.
It says, a little stilted.
Luxembourg is keeping its eyes firmly fixed on, quote,
the limits of the possible.
There can be no doubt that Prime Minister Juncker
intends to fix the new drug policy in a bill
that he hopes to pass in the next five years.
So they're changing their drug policies
and making them more realistic there in Luxembourg.
Luxembourg's a tiny country between Germany and France.
So are they basing their policies on Netherlands
experiment there?
On the Netherlands and Swiss policies,
it does appear that they're trying
to base their policies there.
France, like the United States, is strongly prohibitionist.
And Germany, it has been pretty prohibitionist.
Not as strong as the French, but it has been prohibitionist.
But it's become much more open in several states.
Well, see, that's the difference, I think,
between France and Germany over there.
France is a very centralized government.
Everything comes out of Paris.
Localities don't really have much power.
While in Germany, they have states,
like we have here in the United States.
And there, they have quite a bit of power in individual states
and what they do.
In different states, they have experimented
with different ways of dealing with soft drugs,
trying to separate out soft drugs from harder drugs.
And then, so some of them on the borders with the Netherlands,
because they've seen the impact of Netherlands.
And so they're trying to fix it in Germany there.
And then some of the former states
in the former East Germany, because they've
had a lot of problems there with unemployment,
people turning to drugs, and people
trying to make money off of the prohibition policies.
And so there's a lot of different ways
people are doing it.
And so it's kind of interesting to see what
will come out of over there.
And I'm sure it'll give us some lessons here
as we try to figure out what's the best way to go for our drug
policy reform, separate out soft drugs from harder drugs,
and to provide treatment for folks.
And that's what we want to do is to take
the market for adult marijuana and take it
out of the hands of the black market
and put into the state liquor stores, where it's strictly
regulated, sales are regulated.
And the age limit of 21 is enforced, too.
That's one thing.
In the black market, you can ask any high school kid,
what's easier to get, beer or marijuana?
And they're going to say every time
that marijuana is much easier to get than beer
and just infinitely easier to get than distilled alcohol.
Yeah, so that's what we want to do,
is to bring a realistic policy on marijuana, cannabis,
here in the state of Oregon.
That's what we're all about.
And this is the best way to go about it, we think.
It's been looked at as far as the international treaties
and how it'll fit in with that.
And I know we talked about that on numerous shows.
So if you're a faithful watcher, you probably
don't want us to go into it right now.
But this is what we're trying to do.
We want to bring change to this.
And so do we have any more good news or bad news articles
that we want to share with folks?
Well, here's one that just highlights the corruption
that drug laws cause.
It's about the US Army in Colombia.
It says the wife of a senior US Army colonel who's
in charge of the anti-drug efforts led by the US
in the country of Colombia turned herself
into authorities on Thursday after being charged
with conspiracy to distribute cocaine.
Lori Ann Haight, the wife of US Army Colonel James Haight,
was served with an arrest warrant in late June
after a package containing 2.7 pounds of cocaine
was mailed from the US military base in Bogota
with her name on the return address label,
according to an affidavit.
That wasn't very bright.
No, no.
A Pentagon official told CNN that Ms. Haight surrendered
in New York City.
As a result of the case, the US military
investigated Colonel Haight and cleared him of any wrongdoing.
The Village Voice, a New York weekly newspaper,
first broke the story about the arrest warrant.
And CNN later obtained documents related to the case.
According to the affidavit, undercover US postal inspectors
and New York City police officers
delivered the package from Ms. Haight,
wrapped in brown paper, about 12 by 4 and 6 inches,
with an address to a New York City address,
and arrested a man who tried to flee the residence.
Apparently, this man said he'd received five or six shipments
like this and had been paid $1,500
for each of the previous deliveries.
An affidavit says Ms. Haight was interviewed
and stated that, quote, quote, stated
that she had sent six packages to New York
through the mail on behalf of her husband's chauffeur.
She claimed that she did not know the contents
of the packages she'd shipped.
A spokesman for the US Southern Command
told CNN that the husband was investigated
after the incident occurred and has
been cleared of any wrongdoing.
However, the Army said Colonel Haight requested
and was granted a transfer from Bogota,
where he was in charge of US military group providing
assistance to the Colombian counter-narcotics effort.
Well, yeah, I'm sure there that he requested a transfer.
They probably gave him five seconds to request one
before they would kick him out of the country there.
Doesn't look very good when the head of the anti-drug efforts
in Colombia, the US head, his wife is involved in smuggling.
I mean, either she was knowingly or she's very, very
Naive.
I mean, they always ask you, when you send anything overseas,
you have to put on, whether from the US or to the US,
you have to put on a form what's in the package.
I mean, that's because of customs.
In each country, they want to know,
and they have the right to know.
And so she claimed she didn't know it.
I mean, how naive could she be?
It just shows the impossible target that we're shooting at,
you know, that the government is financing.
Here, we send these people down there to wipe out drugs,
and what are they doing?
Whether naively or purposely, they're
shipping more cocaine back to the United States.
It's just crazy.
Yeah, and in Colombia, I don't know
if folks have been following the news out of there,
but it's pretty scary what's coming out.
The US recently lost one of its most sophisticated spying
planes down in Colombia.
There's only like seven of these planes
that existed in the world.
And one went down there with a bunch of US people on board.
And now Barry McCaffrey's been doing a big tour down there,
and he's requesting more money be sent down there,
ungodly sum of money.
I think that's our next war.
Over a billion dollars.
Yeah, and that's probably our next war.
People are already talking about Vietnam there,
because the rebels who are there opposing
the oligarchy that controls the country
have lined themselves up with the drug growers.
And they control, I think, almost half the country now.
And that's pretty significant.
We don't hear much about that.
Here's this rebel force that controls
half of one of our allies.
And the US doesn't want to see a country taken over
by people that don't have a problem with people
growing drugs.
It'll be really interesting to see what comes out of there.
Already in Afghanistan, where people have grown up there,
we've just lobbed over cruise missiles,
what we feel like, into Afghanistan.
So it's pretty scary what's going
to have right here in our own hemisphere,
because we still believe in the Moreau Doctrine,
our government does, that we want
to control everything that happens in this hemisphere.
So that's another situation.
Here's an article from Massachusetts
about forfeiture laws and to see how money corrupts law
enforcement agencies.
Look at the effects of asset forfeiture laws.
A police officer can take all the money you're carrying
and the car you're driving when stopped on the mere suspicion
that you are a drug dealer, yet never charge you with a crime.
And it will take you years and thousands of dollars
to recover your property, if it's even possible to recover
it.
Your car may have been sold already or badly damaged.
In such forfeiture, called civil asset forfeiture,
because you were never charged with a crime,
you must prove in a court of law that the money and the car
are legally yours and were never involved in some crime.
In other words, you have to prove
you are an innocent party.
And stupid as it sounds, you may have
to prove that your property is innocent too.
The government doesn't have to prove you're guilty of anything.
While it may be easy to prove you
are the legal owner of a car, it's
far more difficult to prove that the money you're carrying
is money you earned at your job.
Imagine how hard it would be to prove your car or money were
never used to facilitate a crime.
An attorney can cost you thousands of dollars
to sue for recovery of your property.
Legal counsel is not provided in such cases.
Many people in similar situations
simply let go and don't try to recover their property.
Why spend $6,000 on attorney fees to recover $5,000?
Just doesn't make sense.
And that's what they count on, these civil asset forfeiture.
Until these laws were passed in the late 80s
under Ronald Reagan, this was never allowed.
It was considered unconstitutional
for the government to seize and use your property.
It's one of those things that needs to be reformed, isn't it?
I think so.
I mean, there's not much that needs to be said about that.
I still think it's unconstitutional,
even though maybe you have those nine people sitting up
on a bench in Washington, DC.
Haven't quite seen the way that I think majority Americans see
it, but it'll change.
I mean, at one time, remember, the Supreme Court
said it was OK to lock up Japanese citizens just
because they were of Japanese ancestry
and living here in the US.
So it'll change.
And that's what we have to help facilitate, that change.
We have to be able to work to inform people.
When you're sitting around with your friends,
and maybe some of you folks out there that
enjoy adult use of marijuana, and you
know who you are out there if you're watching this show,
sign the petition.
And as Paul says, register to vote.
Get your friends registered to vote.
Make sure they sign the petition.
Because you're tired of being a criminal, I'm sure,
every time you decide to enjoy yourself.
So please, give us a phone call.
Sign that petition.
And what's the number, Paul?
It's 235-4606.
If you're outside of the Portland area,
that's 503-235-4606.
You can currently print our Oregon petition out
from our website, if you have a printer
and access the internet, at www.crrh.org.
If you can just sign the petition yourself
or get a few friends to sign, call us.
If you'd like to actually get more involved and be
a volunteer on a larger basis, give us a call
and mention that.
Or if you'd like to be paid for petitioning,
we do have positions available in both Oregon and Washington
where we're currently paying petitioners
to put the Cannabis Tax Act on the ballot in Oregon
and on the ballot in Washington.
We need 90,000 signatures to qualify here in Oregon.
We need about 275,000 signatures to qualify in Washington.
So give us a call.
We need your help.
And give us a call so you don't have to be a criminal anymore
or treated like a criminal just because you're an adult.
And it's a shameful what's going on in this country right now,
what's going on here in the state of Oregon.
We need to change that.
And the best way to do it right now is the Oregon Cannabis Tax
Act.
So thanks for watching, folks.
And we'll see you next week, same time, same station.
And good night, Paul.
Good night.
