Hello, my name is Mary Haddock. I am the chair of the Oregon chapter for Parents for POTS.
Parents for POTS' mission is to end prohibition one family at a time. We also focus on eliminating
any of the stigmas surrounding people and parents that choose to use cannabis as medicine for
themselves or for their children. I myself do not use cannabis, but I am the mother and the
wife of two patients in the state of Oregon. I am the part of the family that supports the
patients that I live with and that are part of my family every day. And I definitely know the
difference that cannabis has made in my life and in the lives of my family members. I'm also a
dispensary worker. I work at a dispensary in Portland. I can tell you the effects that have
that have occurred since they've changed the Oregon Clean Air Act and that my co-workers
cannot medicate when they're on the job. I can tell you that the effect that I have to watch
one of my co-workers physically sit down for more than half of her shift because she's in so much
pain and we're so busy that she cannot take a 10-minute break and leave her station to go
and medicate because she can no longer medicate at her at her workplace.
I stand here today not as a cannabis user but also as a parent who watched her child go through
major depression issues and other issues in her life that cannabis was the only thing that kept
her off of 14 different medications. So I stand here before you not only,
sorry, stand here before you not only as a mother and a wife but as a person that will fight for
her community and the unjust way that Oregon has switched everything that we voted for in Measure
91. And I will stand here with the nine members of the board of the Parents for POT in Portland
and also our brand new branch in Southern Oregon to fight for every single person in this state to
have the right to choose their medicine the way they use it and to be able to go with their with
the people that they associate with and to be in places to be in places where they can consume
their medication. Thank you very much.
