when you bring in the economic needs of an economic crisis.
I mean, consider alcohol would have not have been,
the prohibition against alcohol would not have been stopped
had there not been the Great Depression
because they realized it was a stupid waste of money.
I mean, it's unfortunate from my point of view
because I'm just really into the civil liberties aspect of it
that it would be an economic crisis that legalizes marijuana
but I guess I'll take it anyway we can, alright?
Now, what I want to talk about today is just,
let's just look at my notes here, it's not very,
it's not very cohesive or sort of like a pep rally thing.
I've got a very cohesive little pep rally talk
I'll give on the main stage later today.
But people who are sitting here out of 100,000 people
are kind of interested in how do we bring this to the public?
And I just want to share with you my experience lately.
I've got a lot of different angles on this that are kind of unique.
First of all, I've spent a third of my adult life
hanging out with Europeans
who have joints about as exciting as a can of beer.
It's just not a big deal over there.
They look at us and they just kind of think,
whoa, didn't you guys get over a Reefer Madness like before the war?
But no, it's still a live war in our society.
I've also had 10 years now being outspoken
as a respectable part of the business community,
as a church leader,
as somebody that has some sort of celebrity that you've got to take care of.
And against all conventional wisdom,
I've been honest about my beliefs in this.
I've come out.
Remember when gay people were coming out a couple decades ago
and how courageous that was?
There's 50 people that love pot
for anyone that's here being honest about it.
That in itself is kind of pathetic in our society.
I'll be honest with you.
When I first came to Hemfest, the people here scared me.
It's a freaky world.
And then I saw it differently.
Vivian helped me.
Vivian explained, this is the one time of year when we can take this park.
And that's a beautiful thing.
And it gave me great respect for freedom.
The irony is, we're more into freedom and the Constitution
and what America's all about
than all these people that think we're problems.
And we've got to go over there and not scare them.
That's our challenge.
That's so clear to me.
That's why I decided to wear my dorky jacket today.
I want to put a non-scary face on this drug policy issue.
And this panel that was just up here was saying some very wise ideas
about how do we frame this issue when we don't preach to the choir
but when we preach to people out there who need to hear this.
I've also had some interesting time lately
just getting to know police and people in law enforcement
and respecting their opinion on this.
And I want to share that too.
Let's weave some ideas together for the next half hour here about that.
First of all, Mr. Karolikowski had one of his guys tracking me
and listening to all my talks and so on.
Because they were worried about what we were thinking.
Apparently it was threatening them.
And then he got Worm Stamper talking some common sense.
And I got to know this man.
He's a wonderful man. Very caring man.
And he's diametrically opposed to us.
He just thinks marijuana is the root of all evil.
But he's involved. He cares. Why am I involved? I care.
We both care. Let's understand what makes each other tick.
And after a little while we had dinner and he asked me,
Why are you into this? Why are you?
You're a well-off white guy in the suburbs.
You could smoke pot for the rest of your life.
You could email all your friends. They come on over.
We're smoking pot. And you're never going to get in any trouble.
And I thought about it. You're right.
Why am I in this? Because I am in it just like you are.
It's not just motivating me. It's not my own well-being.
I'm just tired of lies in our society.
And this is one of a million crusades you could speak out on.
And this is one crusade that decent people are afraid to speak out on.
People say it's courageous.
People say it's courageous to speak out about marijuana.
And just the fact that it's courageous to speak out on marijuana,
if you care about freedom, is reason to speak out on marijuana.
I've never said smoke pot.
I've never said it's a civil liberty to smoke pot if you choose to smoke pot.
I believe very strongly that it is the responsible adult, recreational,
no apologies necessary, it just makes my music more fun.
Recreational use of marijuana is a civil liberty.
And I had this long dinner with this police officer,
who was the leading narcotics kind of guy in Seattle.
And he refuted everything I said except for one thing.
He said, I can't argue with your civil liberties idea.
It's perfectly common sense.
Perfectly common sense.
It's the civil liberties thing that really, I think, can resonate.
As a matter of principle, if you care about freedom,
it is a civil liberty to enjoy giving high.
I would never say you should give high.
As a matter of fact, I think it's really important to be honest about the downside of pot.
I'm speaking out.
I get these rich women's groups hiring me to go to deep south and talk about travel.
And I talk about marijuana.
You know?
I mean, they're not inclined to hire a guy to come and talk about drug policy,
but I talk to them about Europe.
And I bring that into it.
And what I really like to do is have credibility by shooting off all the torpedoes.
Am I saying you should smoke pot? No.
Am I saying kids should smoke pot? No, of course not.
Am I saying it's okay to drive while you're intoxicated? No.
You should throw the book at them.
Am I saying healthy? No, it's not healthy.
It can be addictive. It can mess you up.
But that doesn't mean it should be criminal.
You can take the crime out of it, and you can deal with it as Europeans deal with it,
in the form of pragmatic harm reduction.
Now, for eight years, when Bush was president,
as soon as you had any kind of a proposal that had the word harm reduction in it,
it was not even read.
It was just thrown away, because harm reduction is code for legalization.
Now we can talk about harm reduction.
There's a pragmatism that turns me on about European drug policy.
They've got the same kind of challenges that we do.
But they do it differently. They do it with a pragmatism.
So our challenge is to get out there and not be scary.
Find yourself in a circle where people go,
Wow, I never dreamed you would be talking about marijuana in this progressive way.
And then get their attentions and talk to them.
I've done it on TV. I've done it on radio.
I've done it in churches. I've done it in conservative groups.
I've done it with Rotary clubs.
And afterwards, people are thankful for you bringing a little bit of logic and common sense.
They don't need to agree with you, but all of a sudden they understand
this is not just a bunch of heads wanting everybody to turn in and tune out and drop out or something like that,
because that's what they're thinking.
There's a thoughtful reason to be waging the crusade that we're waging.
So I said I've spent a lot of time in Europe.
And it's fun to be in Europe.
And one cool thing about being in Europe is you see your country from a distance.
And when you step away from your country, you see the quirky things about your society,
good and bad, in high contrast.
And all of a sudden you realize more who you are and where you live.
I talked to this man who spent 30 years of his life working in New York, like a lot of Greeks do.
He's retired. He goes back to his home country.
He gets back home and it occurs to him he never took a nap for the whole time he was in the United States.
It just wasn't okay.
And then he goes back to Greece and it's okay to relax, take a nap.
I spent so many years taking my tour groups to Germany
and trying to get them to just take off their clothes and relax in the spa.
And Americans just can't do it. Anybody else can.
We are so uptight about so many silly things.
My TV show actually airs only after 10 o'clock in some markets in this country
because we have 500-year-old marble penises and 300-year-old canvas breasts that we're showing to children.
This is America.
I was just in Frankfurt and they have a place called Cafe Fix, right on the main street.
And it's where all the junkies go to get their heroin maintenance clinic advice and counseling and deal with their habit.
That's a very progressive, in-your-face, ugly kind of thing.
They prescribe cocaine in Britain.
Well, they have a progressive approach to hard drug problems in Europe that would put to shame our policies.
And this is one thing that I like to try to introduce to Americans as a travel writer.
As a travel writer, I feel like my job is kind of like the medieval jester.
You know, in the Middle Ages, the jester, he would go out there and go in front of the people in the gutters.
He'd come back into the castle and he could tell the king the truth.
And the king wouldn't tell him because the king needed to know the truth.
The king actually paid the jester's room and board to be annoyed by the jester for him to come in and tell him the rude jokes.
Everybody was talking about the king out there, outside of the castle.
Well, we need to be jesters.
We need to go out there and find out what the rest of the world is doing and come home.
And that's the beautiful thing about travel and that's one thing I try to do in my travel writing.
There's a lot of fear in our society right now, have you noticed it?
Fear is being used against us.
There's fear about marijuana.
There's fear about terrorism.
There's fear about everything.
One thing I like to do in my travels is go places where you're supposed to be afraid and just see if there's anything to that fear.
I was just in Iran.
I was afraid to go to Iran.
I almost left my big camera in Athens because I thought they'd be throwing stones at us as soon as they saw an American film crew on the streets of Tehran.
I got there and all of a sudden I realized I've never enjoyed such a warm welcome on the streets of any city in the world as when I was in Iran.
I was in a traffic jam, stuck in a traffic jam with my driver to a big city, 10 million people I think in Tehran.
We're going nowhere.
Suddenly my driver just bursts out, death to traffic.
I thought, wait a minute, I thought it was death to Israel or death to America.
He says, no, right now it's death to traffic.
I said, well, what's the then?
He said, here in our country whenever we're frustrated by something that's just out of our control, we say death to that.
All of a sudden, that little experience for me let me have a more sophisticated and nuanced understanding of what death to the United States means in a rally outside of our embassy.
Now that's how travel can overcome some fear.
There's also that about all sorts of alternative lifestyles.
When you travel, you have that joy.
As a travel writer, as I mentioned, I like to bring that home and I can give you lots of different examples of that.
When I think about my interest in marijuana, it goes back also to how casual marijuana is in many cultures.
Of course, you go around much of Europe and marijuana is just, it's not a big deal.
I'm always talking about it like it's a big deal because in our country you can do a hard time for it.
And the Europeans think that gets it over.
I mean, most Dutch people have never smelt marijuana.
They don't care about marijuana.
It's just something that some young people do as a stage and a few people that they're artistic kind of, you know, crazies and they enjoy marijuana all their life.
And that's just fine. It's not an issue.
The very interesting thing when you travel and you're interested in drug policy when you go to Europe is you find there's a fundamental difference in Europe.
Time and time again, my European friends tell me a society has to make a choice.
Tolerate alternative lifestyles or build more prisons.
They always are interested in tolerance.
They're proud of how few people they incarcerate.
In the United States, we incarcerate eight times as many people per capita as Europeans do.
Eight times as many people.
When you go to Europe, you find that they have drug problems.
They lost 8,000 people to heroin overdoses last year.
We lost 18,000.
It's a serious problem in both societies.
How do they do it?
They've got 400 million people.
We've got 300 million people.
They've got progressive laws where they've got their cafe fix on the main street to give people their heroin and their counseling and so on.
We've got locking people up.
How do they manage to lose less than half the people that we do and they've got more people and easier laws?
Pragmatism.
Harm reduction.
I was in Zurich a little while ago going to a coffee, just have a coffee.
I went downstairs to the bathroom.
The lights are blue.
What's going on with that?
Open the door, complete blue lights.
Then I realized, oh, I can't see my veins.
Couldn't shoot up if I wanted to.
Very frustrating.
I thought, well, that's interesting.
They've got a public toilet, basically, and they would have all their junkies down there shooting up if they didn't have blue lights.
Now the junkies can't find their veins, so they won't shoot up in their toilet.
Across the street, I noticed a machine that used to sell cigarettes.
It's been repainted and retooled, and now it sells government subsidized syringes.
I bought them.
They're like one franc each.
They're just generic syringes.
Nobody shares needles in Switzerland.
There's no discussion about it.
There's no moralistic sort of political party in Switzerland that says you shouldn't be providing people needles.
It's just common sense.
You've got your blue lights.
You've got your heroin.
You've got your needles dispensed from old cigarette machines.
Then down the street, you've got your café fix, your heroin maintenance clinic.
Then what happens there is people go there for their fix.
They go there for medical counseling.
They don't have this nervousness where they have to top up, and consequently, they consume less of that drug,
and they get themselves back on track.
They've got a wonderful track record in Switzerland for being more progressive when it comes to that problem.
Europe has found that when you take crime out of the equation and you treat drug abuse as a health problem
and an education challenge, you have much more positive results.
They find that if you—I just learned this from the website at the European Union—
they figure for every euro they put into education and counseling, they save 15 euros on police and health costs.
So they're very wellness-approached to this.
And one thing they've learned, as I mentioned, is you cannot legislate morality.
Nobody's going to say smoke and pot is good.
Nobody's going to say prostitution is good.
But you can say it is futile to make it illegal.
It's going to happen.
It makes more sense to legislate it, make it safe,
and give people some opportunity to learn about the problem and get over it.
When you look at the European Union website, there's no talk of marijuana as an evil thing.
There is—when you search for cannabis, the only cannabis reference you find is, quote,
problem cannabis use.
Problem cannabis use.
Some people use it too much.
They get reliant on it, and that needs to be dealt with.
In Germany, they think that it's—boys smoke more pot than girls in their teenage years,
and they think it's because socially boys are more nervous with girls,
and they smoke a little marijuana in order to be more comfortable socially.
So they give them—they actually have counseling centers where they give them flirting lessons
so they can flirt a little more comfortably without the help of the marijuana.
I don't know if that's going to work or not, but the point is they're thinking out of the box.
They're being pragmatic.
They're being creative, not making it a crime, but making it an education challenge.
Here's an example of pragmatism in Europe.
When you travel in Scandinavia in June, you find drunk teenagers in flatbed trucks
just making all sorts of noise going through all the towns.
What's going on? It's graduation party time.
All the kids are getting drunk.
Who's paying for the parties? The parents are.
Parents hire the trucks, hire the drivers, and host the gangers.
Parents don't want their kids to get drunk on graduation,
but parents in Scandinavia are pragmatic enough to know that kids will get drunk on high school graduation
no matter what you say, and they would rather make sure they don't drink and drive.
Now, that would be a real tough sell in America.
We would rather have the moralistic stance, don't drink,
and then kids will drink, and they will drive and drink, and they will die,
as they do every year in our society.
That's the American approach to a form of drug abuse,
teenagers getting really drunk on graduation time,
and the European approach is more honest, it's more credible,
and, bottom line, harm reduction.
Fewer people die.
The blue lights thing I was talking about, that's another good example of that.
And, of course, marijuana is considered a soft drug rather than a hard drug.
It's hard when you talk about drug policy in Europe to make a sweeping statement
because every country has its own policies,
and we always zero in on the Netherlands, and that's not fair,
because there are some countries that have very regressive marijuana policies,
but more and more countries in Europe are making marijuana quasi-legal.
You won't find it legal anywhere.
It's not absolutely legal anywhere except, I think, in Portugal,
where consumption is legal but sale is not.
And, in my experience, that's because these countries are afraid
to enter into a trade war with the United States.
The United States has huge power on Canada and on Europe not to legalize marijuana.
My friends in Denmark tell me we've got to be a little bit careful with marijuana
because every year we have to arrest a couple of pot smokers
in order to maintain favored trade status with the United States of America.
That's our country. That's our country.
Because of my research chores, I have to go to a lot of coffee shops in Amsterdam.
I just love to find these coffee shops in Amsterdam.
I look at them for a business, and it's just an amazing thing.
They've got the loaner bongs if you don't have your own.
They've got your email. You can check your email while you're there.
There's no minors. They won't sell to people under 18.
Older clients don't like the edgy vibe in a coffee shop,
and they just park their bicycle and get a little marijuana to go,
and they'll go back to their place and enjoy it.
The police like the existence of coffee shops in Amsterdam
because they have a bulletin board where they can post information
about what dangerous chemical drugs are being sold on the streets.
The police really see the coffee shops in Amsterdam as a firewall
between soft drug use and hard drug abuse, and it's very effective.
Now, we're so honed in on that gateway drug nonsense that we can't hardly imagine that.
Europeans know that the only reason marijuana could ever be a gateway drug
is because of its illegality.
It's the only thing gateway about marijuana.
It's nonsense to say he smoked marijuana, and now he's a serial rapist.
Well, that doesn't mean it's a gateway drug or something
any more than he smoked marijuana, and now he's hooked on heroin.
But what is the gateway aspect of marijuana is that if it is illegal,
people can only get it from criminals selling it on the streets,
and those criminals have a vested interest in getting into something more expensive,
more addictive, and more profitable than marijuana, and that's anything hard.
In the Netherlands, they don't have that.
As a matter of fact, it's been 25 years in the Netherlands
since they arrested anybody for marijuana, and during that time,
the hard drug-using population is getting older and not getting bigger.
It's aging and sort of withering away,
whereas the soft drug-enjoying population is about the same,
maybe 10% more because of its quasi-legality.
But a very interesting aspect of the whole discussion to me is
in America, there's a lot of fear about legalizing marijuana
because a lot of frightened people out in the suburbs think as soon as that's legal,
it's just going to be one hemp-fest hell.
All of our world is going to be overwhelmed by people with weird T-shirts and funny hair.
And my feeling is that there's not a reservoir of people out there
wishing they could ruin their lives if only it was legal.
In our society, anybody who wants to smoke pot is smoking pot.
Anybody who wants to be a freak is a freak.
It's just a free world, and you can live your life the way you want to live it.
Europe's experience, and they've got a 25-year track record on this,
between 10 and 25 years, depending on the country,
is use does not go up when you get more easygoing on your laws.
As a matter of fact, by every count, and it's frustrating to use statistics in Europe
because everybody in this discussion, because everybody's got an agenda
who makes statistics.
You look at a conservative statistics like our police do,
and you're going to see all sorts of stuff you want to see.
You look at liberal statistics like anybody in our camp does,
and you're going to see the statistics you want.
But across the board, the statistics in the United States and in Europe
show that Americans consume double per capita the marijuana that Europeans do.
And the Dutch consume no more than the average in Europe.
The conclusion you can draw from that quite clearly
is that how hard the laws are do not impact how many people enjoy marijuana recreationally.
And that's a fundamental, it's a little bit beyond the attention span
of the average just say no bumper sticker person who's afraid of marijuana.
But you've got to sit people down and talk to them a little bit,
and actually they find this quite interesting.
When you think about the situation in the Netherlands,
you know the King County Bar Association is a national leader in our country
for thinking about the reality of marijuana and the pragmatism of not criminalizing it.
And they've also been thinking about what happens after it's legal.
I went to a two or three day seminar Roger Goodman and a bunch of guys in Seattle put on,
and people from all over the country came there,
talking about okay, let's have the hypothetical situation that marijuana is legal.
Now how do we regulate it? That's a very tough thing.
The Europeans have been struggling with this, and they haven't figured it out.
In the Netherlands you've got that gray area.
You can sell it all you want, but we don't want to know how it's wholesale.
And they don't want big wholesalers.
They like little boutique producers.
My friends who run coffee shops in Amsterdam have told me
they don't import marijuana much anymore like they used to.
It used to get fancy strains from all over Asia and Africa and so on.
Now they've got the technology to grow it locally.
It's safer and easier for them to grow it locally,
and they get those strains that they wanted.
They've got the cannabis cup and that sort of thing.
Well, what's with that?
Well, every different boutique grower, like microbrews or something,
is going to have their own forte, and they have a contest.
And see, almost all that is locally grown.
In the Netherlands they have got to figure out how to regulate the marijuana
because it is essentially illegal.
For instance, and this is something that will allay a lot of fears in the United States,
a lot of people are afraid of marijuana legalization,
don't want billboards advertising it.
I don't think anybody would want marijuana legalized and advertised
any more than we'd want hard liquor advertised everywhere you look.
You know how we control that.
Very easy to control that.
As a matter of fact, in the Netherlands, you step into a coffee shop,
and I do this in my research,
because I think, okay, I'm a little bit clueless and overwhelmed as a typical tourist would be.
How do I know what to buy?
I step into a coffee shop.
I don't see a menu.
Where's the menu?
And he says, you've got to push that button.
So I push the button, and by physically pushing the button,
it lights the menu, and I can read it.
But the point is, I have to take the initiative to get the information.
It cannot come to me.
You see what I mean?
It's just a little legalistic buying point,
but that's the fascinating way that they've dealt with that in the Netherlands.
That's pragmatism.
That's really thinking, how can I accomplish something?
They're not going to advertise it to the outside world.
They're not going to have a coffee shop next to a school.
They're not going to let minors have it.
They're going to limit it to a small amount, all this kind of thing.
It's fascinating to see how they do that.
Right now, the mayor of Amsterdam is proposing doubling the legal inventory
for coffee shops in Amsterdam.
Right now, a coffee shop can sell literally a ton of pot over the course of a year,
as long as he never has more than half a kilo in stock.
That's one pound.
The problem with that is, of course, you have all these people,
you know, we're out, it's 2 o'clock, we're out, bring some more.
It's 10 o'clock in the morning, we've got another delivery.
The mayor just doesn't like the traffic congestion caused by all the deliveries.
So the mayor of Amsterdam right now, it's a big discussion,
is promoting doubling the allowable inventory limit to one kilo, 2.2 pounds.
And that would cut in half the traffic congestion caused by little pot deliveries.
So that's an interesting issue.
Another interesting issue is, of course, Europe has gone smoke-free, tobacco-wise.
You can't smoke tobacco indoors in most countries in Europe.
You go to the great pubs of Europe that used to be so smoky,
and you had to put up with it.
Now, they're completely smoke-free.
It's quite nice, and everybody is sitting outside with blankets around them,
smoking their cigarettes, because you can only smoke outside.
If you're a coffee shop in Amsterdam or anywhere in the Netherlands,
and you don't have a place to sit outside,
your business is at a huge disadvantage,
because it's illegal to smoke tobacco indoors.
And Europeans like to mix their marijuana with tobacco.
So if you have a place outside to sit, it fits your clientele.
If you don't, you're in trouble.
Curiously, if you're a coffee shop in Amsterdam,
you can lose your license if you let people smoke tobacco.
But they can smoke all the marijuana they want.
I had this nice dinner with a local policeman, and I learned a lot.
And we need to respect, and I'm glad we do respect,
the law enforcement in our city,
especially during Hempfest and this sort of thing.
One thing about policemen is, they didn't make these laws.
They're hired to enforce the laws.
They don't even think about the logic of a law.
They're trained not to think about the logic of the law,
but think about enforcing the laws.
And you've got to be thankful there are police enforcing laws.
What we need to do is not be pissed off at the police,
but change the law if it's a stupid one.
That is good citizenship, to advocate changing the law.
That's how you do it.
I mean, it's good citizenship if you recognize a law
that's causing more harm than the problem it's trying to address,
to talk to people, educate people, and change it.
And that's what we're doing here in a beautiful,
not very fast process, but in a beautiful process.
I think that what I learned from my discussion with this police officer is,
the driving mission for police, along with enforcing the laws,
is protecting children and stopping violence.
One beautiful thing about us here at HempFest is it's a mellow crowd.
It blows away how mellow we are, and nobody is trying to get kids high.
As these guys said in the panel before, let's make that very, very clear.
Every time we talk about legalizing marijuana is, it's not for kids.
You can debate 18 or 21. I think there's a lot of wisdom in 18.
Just because you don't want to force people to do illegal things.
You want to be pragmatic about it.
But, now lay that concern from the start, right off the bat.
Because the two things I always hear is, you want all the kids to get high,
and you want people driving when they're high.
No, no. You should treat it as serious as Europe does.
You know, Europe is much more strict on driving while intoxicated than we are.
And they're much more liberal about getting intoxicated.
So, they're able to give people the civil liberty, but maintain order.
And that's something we can do also.
Again, cops don't care to evaluate the law. They're hired to enforce the law.
Most policemen just think if there's trouble,
it's because those people have been messing around with drugs.
Alcohol, hard drugs, marijuana. And they put it all in the same ball.
So, marijuana has the problem of being in there with the alcohol and the hard drugs,
in the mind of a police officer.
I'm not saying I understand this or agree with this.
It's just, that's the reality from their perspective.
And I think it makes a little sense.
They're a little offended by the medical marijuana thing,
because they think a lot of people just say they've got chronic neck pains.
And they go get their card. And they just are making a sham of the whole thing.
I think, as I mentioned, we use the word harm reduction.
Right away, they think that's just a front for legalization.
And the reality is, they told me, that the reality is,
if you're just using it responsibly and low-key, it's pretty safe.
My feeling is, of course, it's a racist law and it's a classist law.
If you're a rich white guy, you're pretty safe.
If you're not wealthy, if you're not well educated, if you're on the streets,
and if you're a person of color, you've got a real serious problem.
And that in itself is reason to take a hard look at this law.
We're thinking about the parallels between Prohibition in the 1920s and 30s
and Prohibition today against marijuana, because we can learn a lot from that.
And remember, there was a lot of discussion back in the 30s.
And when they finally made alcohol legal, nobody was saying booze is good.
There was just a broad recognition that the law is more costly than the drug problem itself.
That's what we're doing today.
We're saying that the law is more costly than the drug problem itself.
I think when we look at what's happening today,
historically, we're going to see there's this perfect storm that comes together just like that,
which happened back in the 1930s.
And 70 years later, nobody would argue that alcohol should be illegal again.
I think we need to worry about our credibility.
And I think I've talked about credibility enough, but it's that kids thing and the driving thing that comes back and back again.
My experience, a lot of people are curious, how can I talk about this in public?
And I get introduced all over the place as that marijuana guy or the board member of NORML or with the ACLU.
And a lot of people cringe.
My staff cringes because my staff is worried about, are we going to be in business next year?
When I get underwriting for my TV show, they're all wigged out about,
what are you going to say about marijuana?
And when I get underwriting for a big magazine, they'll say,
well, promise you won't tell everybody to go to Amsterdam and get high.
Business people are really nervous about this.
I think the business community is behind the politicians,
and the politicians are behind the public.
And it's just an evolutionary thing.
Politicians are learning.
Senator Cole Wells right here.
All over the country, I've been talking to politicians.
This is not so radical to them.
They're realizing it's no longer political suicide to talk smartly about this issue.
Still, they've got a lot of fish to fry, and this is just, why do I want to get involved in this one?
But I think that we've made a lot of progress in that way.
But in my experience, it's the corporate world that's so nervous about it.
And there's no ethics in the corporate world.
I mean, think about Mark Phelps.
What was the deal?
He was a spokesperson for Kellogg's, wasn't it?
And Subway sandwiches, yeah.
So Kellogg's got rid of him as a spokesperson because he smokes marijuana.
And then Kellogg's stock plummets 70%.
Subway sandwiches was going to get rid of him also.
And they saw what happened to Kellogg's stock, and they had a meeting.
And they said, you know, this would be costly for us to get rid of Mark Phelps.
In fact, maybe it's a plus to have Mark Phelps when it comes to Subway sandwiches.
And Google this. Check this out.
Subway actually, after Kellogg's dumped Mark Phelps, Michael Phelps,
Subway sandwiches started an ad campaign called,
Eat Subway Sandwiches and Feel the Buds.
It's serious. Check it out.
But what I've drawn from that is corporations have no moral statement.
They're just reading the bottom line.
And if they can realize that it's not bad for their bottom line,
they can care less if everybody's high or not,
as long as they're spending their money in their court.
Every time I'm on the media talking about this,
it's amazing to me how uptight people get.
And when it's done, the mic's turned off, they say,
thank you for speaking out.
Cross the board. I've been on every station around here, you know.
And they're all nervous. They can't believe I'm talking about it.
When it's off, they go, thank you. You're speaking about it.
They can't. Everybody's worried about their jobs.
It's a scary time economically.
And with this prohibition and all the lies and all the cowardice in our public,
it's scary for people.
When ACLU contacted me to do that half hour video,
I don't know if you've seen it, but check it out.
They did a great job.
It's a wonderful, wonderful half hour,
historical, informational documentary about the war against marijuana.
I learned a lot in the process making this show.
Have any of you seen the show that ACLU did on the marijuana time trial discussion?
You know, you do, yeah.
Well, everybody who cares about this should have a little background on the whole situation.
And check it out.
Now, we have three TV stations in our state, in our city, three local stations.
We were going to buy half an hour.
We're going to pay them just what you pay for a Thighmasters ad, you know.
And they wouldn't let us do it.
They would let you advertise Thighmaster, but not talking about marijuana.
There's so much fear in the media about this,
that they think you would offend and scare away your advertisers.
So this is a challenge that we have to deal with,
and it's been a frustrating thing for me in my own world.
I have to talk about this really up front with all of my TV stations,
all of my radio stations, all of my newspaper syndications,
all of my publishers, and let them know I am a spokesperson for the legalization of marijuana.
I'm not in favor of smoking marijuana.
I don't think it's for kids.
I don't think you should drive while intoxicated.
I think the law is causing more problems than the drug problem itself.
I think bottom line, the adult, responsible, recreational use of marijuana is a civil liberty.
You see how clear that was?
If you can get them to listen that long,
if you can get them to listen that long,
and if they got half a brain, they see you're not evil.
But if you can't get them to listen,
they just think you're going to be taking all their kids into some sort of a hempish nightmare.
Once in a blue moon, in my travels,
my travel business, somebody calls me up and they say,
I just read what you think about marijuana,
and we're not going to go on your tour,
we're canceling out,
we're telling all our friends not to travel with Rick Steves Europe either.
And all I can think is,
Europe will be much more fun without you.
Now, we have tough economic times in this country, really tough.
And I'm surprised there's not more people who are business leaders who can't have a little fun with honesty.
You know what I mean?
I know so many business leaders who agree with us,
but because of their financial nervousness, they cannot talk about it.
There are community leaders, thought leaders, respected people,
who would understand we're not pro-drugs,
we're pro-freedom and civil liberties and pragmatism when it comes to dealing with drug abuse problems.
I've made a point to talk with every one of our congress people,
our senators, our mayor, our governor, my pastor,
they know what I think, they respect me for it.
I've got my little lines down, you know, I know how to shoot off the torpedoes.
I want them to know what I think.
We all need to do that.
If we did that more effectively, we would be a lot farther along,
and we'd be able to have a real celebration when we come to a gathering like this.
Please, think of ways to do that.
Okay, I'm going to just wrap it up here.
I think I've gotten through all of my notes pretty well.
I want to remind you, there's advocacy groups out there.
I mean, I can't keep track of all the wonk.
There's a lot of policy wonks that, I mean, just blow me away how they understand all these issues
and the legislative initiatives and everything.
But all of us who care about these issues, and all of us that don't want to be criminals,
and all of us who have friends that can't even come here because they'll lose their jobs
or they're worried about their friends, they want to come here.
All of these people need to recognize that there are advocacy groups
waging a hard and serious battle for us as experts.
They're putting up lucrative careers to be working in this civil liberties struggle.
And it's a fun thing as a citizen to shop around and choose which one turns you on.
Everybody's got a different take on it.
I love the work of NORML.
I've been a board member of NORML for nearly 10 years now.
And I don't look at these groups like NORML as charities.
They are services.
And they're fighting a battle for me.
And if you're not a paying member of some advocacy group, you're frankly not on board.
It's 20 bucks.
It's 20 bucks.
You can put on a funny t-shirt and come down here once a year, and we're never going to get anywhere.
Join an advocacy group.
Make a political statement.
Tell your friends.
Make it not scary.
And bring it out to the suburbs.
This is good citizenship.
Thank you very much.
Oh, yeah.
Thank you.
And I'd love to say happy Mother's Day if you're just staying home.
Thank you.
Thank you.
