Give me an H!
H!
Give me an E!
E!
Give me an L!
L!
Give me a P!
P!
What's that spell?
L!
What's that spell?
L!
What's that spell?
L!
All right!
Hey, turn around and say hello to somebody that you don't know.
Say hello to somebody.
Hello everybody!
Welcome somebody!
Welcome everybody!
Give somebody a hug!
Give somebody a drink!
This is the largest Harvest Fest we've ever had!
When you call for the legalization of health and the legalization of power, you are making
a political statement that does not conform with the standard wisdom of the time.
Black lives matter!
Black lives matter!
Black lives matter!
The criminalization of drugs only enhances the power of some tired, old, white males
in Washington, D.C. who want to continue to control people of color, poor people, women,
young people, and people who disagree with the way this nation is being run today.
You see, it's all right in the United States to be an alcoholic.
That's because George Bush and his cronies are alcoholics.
It is all right in this country to consume legal drugs.
Drugs that destroy the mind, the spirit, and the body because huge multinational conglomerates
produce, manufacture, and distribute these types of drugs.
We don't like it a lot!
Getting high by what the pigs are doing, stuff like that.
No offense, fellas, but it's just the way it is.
I've met some Ohio hippies, they've got their band lifted for three seats.
Really ridiculous stuff.
The punishment should fit the crime.
Right now you can pistol whip somebody, you can rob a bank, you can do a lot of things.
If you'll do more time messing around on marijuana than you will do stuff like that.
It's not right.
I don't know how they can get behind enforcing those kinds of laws.
The word came down from above, from Big George or Nancy, I don't know who it was.
Now they're grabbing people, throwing them in jail.
It's all bullshit.
All the way along the line.
They can't defend themselves as far as I'm concerned.
I think that the herb should be legalized because there is, as I say, a big difference
between smack-back and smoking flowers.
And I'm sick and tired of my friends being dragged off, or their houses or cars being confiscated
for a joint of marijuana when there are 500,000 deaths a year from alcohol and nicotine.
I mean, come on, let's get real here.
So what I suggest you do is let's legalize it.
We could do it if we got together, we could do anything.
