Hey, I want to talk to you about two things and I want to ask you to do two things, okay?
The first thing is that, you know, I'm a proud member of the NORML Legal Committee,
a national organization to reform the marijuana laws.
And our legal committee is about 450 lawyers nationally
and we look after folks that are charged with cannabis-related offenses
and we do education and outreach and other stuff.
But lately, the leaders of NORML,
Alan St. Pierre, the executive director, and Keith Straub, the legal counsel,
have been making public statements that aren't really what NORML's about.
Alan's been saying, for example, that medical marijuana is a sham.
NORML doesn't think medical marijuana is a sham, but Alan says that publicly.
Keith says, oh, five nanograms, that's okay.
You know, that's probably a reasonable level for driving on the influence.
And that's not NORML's position at all.
NORML's been fighting hard to make sure that there aren't, per se,
driving on the influence laws passed.
And so what I'd like you to do, the first thing I'm going to ask you to do
is I want you to write to Alan and Keith.
It's alan at NORML.org, N-O-R-M-L dot org,
and keith at NORML.org, N-O-R-M-L dot org,
and let them know that you heard me talk about this
and ask them to knock it off, to quit saying stuff that's not NORML, okay?
Can you do that for me?
We are, after years of playing defense, we've been winning!
We're moving bills!
And I'm also here on behalf of Compassionate Oregon.
Compassionate Oregon is Anthony Taylor and the, gosh, what's her name,
Cheryl Smith, the director of Compassionate Center in Eugene,
and Anthony's been lobbying, not Anthony Johnson, but Anthony Taylor's been lobbying
on behalf of Compassionate Oregon, and this is what we've been doing.
We had a bill to add PTSD, passed the Senate 19 to 11.
There's going to be a hearing in the health committee, in the House, on the 15th,
and then it's going to pass the House, and then the governor's going to sign it,
and then we're going to have PTSD, finally, as a condition that will qualify patients in Oregon.
I caught up with Russ Belville about a week after he stopped working with NORML
and said, what should we do?
Russ, you know, in the session, Russ said, you know, it makes me crazy that in Washington,
because this was before it was legalized, sort of, and not sort of before, but sort of legalized,
in Idaho, and even Utah and California all have misdemeanor marijuana laws,
but in Oregon, if it's less than an ounce, it's a violation, but more than an ounce, it's a felony,
and any amount of hashish or hash oil or honey oil or anything that's derived from the plant
is a felony, no matter what the quantity is.
Well, I know, guess what?
The Oregon Senate, I want to say 18 to 12, passed a law that says if it's more than an ounce
but less than four ounces, it's a misdemeanor, and if it's less than a quarter ounce of hashish or hash oil,
it's a misdemeanor.
That's going to go to the House, it's going to pass the House, it's going to go to the governor,
and it's going to become the law.
We're going to have misdemeanor marijuana in Oregon.
There's another bill that the Oregon Criminal Defense Lawyers Association has worked on that,
you know, if you, I don't know if you know, but a lot of people get these tickets for less than an ounce
and just pay the fine, and next thing they know, they get a letter in the mail from the Department of Motor Vehicles,
their license is suspended for six months.
Anybody know anybody that happened to besides me and John Lucy and Paul Loney?
No, and no anybody? Well, anyway, trust me, that happens.
And it's wrong, and the Oregon Senate voted, I kid you not, 24 to 6,
to make it that the license suspension can't happen anymore for less than an ounce,
and that bill's going to go to the House, and it's going to pass the House,
and it's going to get signed by the governor, and it's going to become the law in Oregon.
We are through planned defense.
We are moving laws. All we do is we show up and say, you know what, it's going to be legal.
It's either going to be legal this session or next session or the next election cycle or the election cycle after that,
and we need to do things that create a glide path towards legalization, and they're agreeing with us.
Okay, so, you know, Anthony's volunteer, Anthony Taylor is volunteering his time lobbying.
I've been volunteering my time, but, you know, Anthony lives out in McMinnville.
He's got to drive down to Salem almost daily.
He's got expenses. After I'm done talking, I'm going to walk around.
I've got my bicycle helmet here, and the bicycle helmet has holes in it,
and that's because no change, brothers and sisters.
I need some folding money that we can contribute to Compassionate Oregon
and make the rest of these bills actually become law.
Okay, thank you, and God bless.
