It's always nice to be at the Hemp Fest, frankly.
Somebody asked me when I first got in town,
why do you still have the Hemp Fest? I thought you guys won.
Well, we won in the sense that legal marijuana is now legal in Washington,
but we're not near finished.
There are a lot of problems that still exist.
For example, people still lose their jobs every day in Washington,
not for showing up to work in an impaired condition,
but because they smoked on the weekend and they got drug tested on the first of the week
and they have THC in their system.
That's obviously unfair.
We still have young parents who are having to fight for child custody
to retain custody of their child,
when the only suggestion is that they're not fit parents is that they smoke marijuana.
Now, that's absurd.
That's leftover from reefer madness days.
And we still have some problems with DUID.
We still need the right to grow our own marijuana in Washington,
where recreational users still can't.
There's a lot of work to still be done before we...
Marijuana smokers are treated fairly, but I will say this.
The people in Washington deserve enormous credit.
You were the first.
You broke the door of prohibition wide open, you and Colorado,
and there's no turning back, so we are in your debt.
A Gallup has at first asked the question of how many Americans support legalizing marijuana.
In 1969, it was the year before we started normal,
and only 12% of the public supported legalization.
88% were opposed to it.
Now, fast forward to about three years ago,
when for the first time, the national polling began to show
a slight majority of the country favoring full legalization.
Now we've got five or six polls that show anywhere from 51% to 58% of the entire public.
It's not that they're pro-pot.
It is that they understand prohibition hasn't worked.
It's a failed public policy.
Only about 14% of the country are regular smokers, 86% are not.
But the majority of those non-smokers now support our position of full legalization.
So as long as we retain their support, there's no turning back.
We've known for at least 10 or 15 years that we were going to win this battle
because of the demographics, but all the surveys showed
were that older Americans, people my age and older, were the problem.
We grew up in the middle of reefer madness, and it's hard to change people's opinion
if that's their whole world they've known.
But we also noticed that younger Americans, whether they smoked or not, it didn't much matter.
Marijuana's no big deal to them.
So we knew eventually our fallback strategy, we used to laugh, was
if necessary, we'll outlive the bastards.
Well, in some degree, I think that's what happened.
Generously, the younger Americans were always going to eventually legalize marijuana.
I just wasn't sure that I would live long enough to see it,
and I tell you, I am exhilarated every morning when I get up
to have the chance to witness this really happening in America.
Well, we thank you for putting the lawyers together into a group
that could learn about protecting the laws
and just helping people not see the drug war being so hard to their families.
