You know, there's two things I really have to say.
No matter what else we want to cover on this program, I have to say.
The first thing is that I will not be a part of a system that continues to deny this very
best of God's medicines does to the hundreds of thousands of Kentuckians who suffer under
diagnosed ailments and categories of illnesses and impairments on which marijuana is proven
to be the very best relief on earth.
By God, it is obscene to me to disallow these people with tumors and anorexias associated
with nutrition-blocking diseases and these people for which it's the best medicine and
these nausea patients for which it's the best medicine, those folks who are taking cancer
treatment, radiation or chemotherapy, and the people suffering from wide-angle glaucoma
and the people suffering from distress and despair and depression and the people who
sometimes don't think life's worth living and the people who need a tonic for life,
who need to commune with Mother Earth and they get ill and they're sick because of it,
the emphysema people, the people with epilepsy, neural disorders like multiple sclerosis.
I mean, it is obscene to me to continue to deny these people this very best medicine
that could offer them relief in the next five minutes.
Offer them relief in the next five minutes.
You know, Kentucky's got the lowest life expectancy of any state in the union.
How can anybody who knows what I just said is true be a part of any system that does
not allow people this access?
We are forced to deal with the pharmaceutical monopolies and it's only in the name of their
profits or our people being denied a much more restful and much more comfortable and
enjoyable life on this planet.
And I'm going to bring that insight to Kentucky.
It's going to become part of the Kentucky psyche.
It's going to become part of Kentucky's healing and Kentucky is going to be known as a center
of healing because people are going to come there to find out what it's like to take a
much slower pace through the garden.
Gatewood, some of your constituents and some of your opponents, I'm sure, are very curious
that when elected, how do you plan to implement the hemp crop into the economy, into the
working force, into the industry?
There's three ways to do it.
I don't know if it can be done smoothly or not.
You know, these are some very ruthless monopolies we're seeking to go into a legitimate competition
with.
They run whole governments and whole dictators and they slay thousands of peasants every
year around the globe.
And I'm sure that they're willing to do anything to try to destabilize me and what I'm trying
to do in that state.
I'd be foolish to consider it in any other way.
But there's some things that they cannot stop me from doing.
I think that what we ought to do is construct a plan based along the alcohol and tobacco
production and marketing techniques.
That way no one could point to any segment of that plan and say that won't work because
it's already in work in either production of alcohol and tobacco and distribution of
those and alcohol.
And I think marijuana belongs in those categories.
I think marijuana belongs in those categories.
I don't think there's any doubt about that.
Any problems with it certainly ought to be associated with social services rather than
law enforcement.
You know, and I found people who attribute some of their malfunctioning marijuana.
You know, it's just not for everybody.
But I just hadn't met many people it wasn't for.
But I want the farmer to produce it under license.
First of all, I think every household ought to be able to grow their own.
I mean, your relationship with Mother Earth is the most fundamental thing.
It's even more biological than your birth parents because they're made of the same carbons
and the same earthly products as you are.
And it all came from Mother Earth.
You know, that's where it came up from in my opinion.
Smoking marijuana is the closest thing to commuting with Mother Earth next to eating
a pound of mud as far as I know.
But you don't feel as good after you eat that pound of mud next morning.
Don't eat pounds of mud folks, it'll cause you to lose work and Governor Bush will come
out and President Bush will come out in an anti-mud hysteria.
But what I want to do is you get to grow your own.
I mean, by golly, our ability to plant a seed in God's green earth and do what we want to
with the green natural plant that comes up out of it is the most fundamental pursuit
of life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness.
And one has to be one of the most inalienable rights and guarantees, at least within the
constitution, or at least within the substance of due process clauses of the constitution.
You know, and so you ought to be able to do that.
That's where I draw the line.
People say, Galbraith, why not crack cocaine and heroin?
Well, first of all, those substances I understand seem to override the freedom of choice.
If you want to set those things down after long use and try to walk away from them, they
call you back.
That's one of the ways Richard Pryor talked about crack.
It just kept calling him back.
He just quit it.
Richard, you know, and he just had to come back to it.
But marijuana, I don't know anybody.
You can lay it down and go away and do whatever you want to, you know, and it doesn't bother
you.
So if it's a green natural plant, then by golly, you ought to be able to grow it.
If you want to rub poison ivy all over your body, by golly, you ought to be able to rub
poison ivy all over your body.
From nature.
Whatever you want to do.
We go out and we license the farmers to grow a certain poundage allotment.
Now, you know, I'm advising every stockbroker in the state to advise their clients to buy
stock in chain link fence companies because when these farmers get to grow this stuff,
you're going to see these little chain link enclaves on every one of Kentucky's 86,000
farms.
Okay.
Personally, I'm starting my own company.
There you go.
But those farmers, see, Kentucky has more farms than any other state in the Union besides
the 4th.
Okay.
I mean, you wouldn't think that from the size of it.
I mean, and the farm size is only one-fifth the national average.
And as a matter of fact, 70% of Kentucky's farms earn less than $15,000 a year in commodities
off of the land.
So, if we can implement a $15,000 to $25,000 income to these farmers overnight for something
they don't have to add any new land, any new labor, any new structures, any new machines,
you know, they can, you know, hell, they're doing it now.
I mean, you know, I'm just going to take helicopters out there and make them pay their taxes on
it.
That's all I'm going to do.
I didn't get better.
But, you know, I don't want, if a fellow has a thousand acres over here and is making good
living off of food crops and stuff like that, I don't want to displace their land.
We can grow this hemp for fuel on marginal, but we're talking about hemp for medicinal
recreational purposes right now under this licensing system.
On hemp for fuel, we let it grow and occupy a competitive market niche with fuel.
But that's going to take place in the western part of the state, which is flat and large
farms.
Up in the Appalachians, there's small farms and dirt farms.
And I don't want this fellow with a thousand acres having a pro-rata share of the market
in any kind of superior relationship over this small farm up in eastern Kentucky.
Spread the wealth as it is.
If I can give everybody $50,000 a year, we'll do it.
If I can give everybody $100,000 a year, we're going to do it.
But we're going to give it to everybody.
I've got one, we've only got a couple more minutes left.
Only, I just started.
I mean, I'm just now in the production end up.
But I'm just now in the production end up.
Okay, well, we can keep, we can keep going.
I'm just now in the production end up.
Okay, well, we can keep going.
I'm just now in the production end up.
Okay, well, we can keep going.
Okay, well, I'm being phased off the land.
Okay, well, it's a marvelous plan, folks, and I'm a great guy, and just trust me on
this one, okay?
I just have one more question I want to put.
Okay.
Because there's a lot of people now who are good citizens who have been growing this and
have caught smoking it and now have had people come in and take their homes, take their cars,
take their boats, take their children, take their life, take their right to vote.
As a governor, what do you intend to do for these people who are now in the production
end up?
I'm just now in the production end up.
Okay, well, we can keep, we can keep going.
I'm just now in the production end up.
Okay, well, we can keep, we can keep going.
I'm just now in the production end up.
Okay, well, we can keep, we can keep going.
I'm just now in the production end up.
Okay, well, we can keep, we can keep going.
I'm just now in the production end up.
Okay, well, we can keep, we can keep going.
I'm just now in the production end up.
