Hello everybody my name is Lori Duckworth. I'm the former director of Southern Oregon
Normal in Medford, Oregon. We were in operation for a little over four and a half years right
next to the federal courthouse before we were raided on May 23, 2013. My husband was the
president of the organization and I was the executive director. We both suffered from
PTSD at the time of that raid from childhood experiences and he also had a diagnosis of
chronic pain and I have seizures. Nearly a year after that raid when we were prepared
to go to trial with our lawyers Leland Berger who's here today, thank you Leland, and my
lawyer Justin Rosa, a local attorney in Medford, we took a plea bargain and they, state of
Oregon, dropped 29 class A felonies against me and 28 against my husband in exchange for
one class C felony. The charge, delivery of more than one ounce of cannabis to another
medical marijuana card holder for no consideration. There's not even a charge like that anywhere
heard of but we took it so we didn't have to face trial and possibly going to jail for
the rest of our lives. We got our guns and our ammunition back and our business closed.
Approximately a year after that I was diagnosed with cancer. This is my medicine now. I take
three grams a day. The current rules and regulations would prohibit me from being able to purchase
that in a dispensary. Thank goodness we're good growers and we have great friends that
own extraction companies that can help us out with that. The current rules and regulations
that are being imposed or proposed and I met with Farioli today earlier, they're going
to hurt the program. They're going to damage the program and this program has been the
stepping stone to legalization in this state. I would suggest all of you pick up a news
week that just came out and read the story in it. It will explain to you how people come
into this state and take advantage of our program with illegal ways and means and this
is what happens to our program. We cannot stop fighting. We, the honest people that
have been part of this program and we were card number 436, 436 in this state 17 years
ago. We cannot stop fighting for this program for the protection and preservation of it.
The patients are the building block of foundation for legalization. We deserve better. The children
deserve better. The dying hospice patients deserve to not die before they can access
their medicine and dispensaries with their safety packets. Safety packets. It's crazy.
That's all they get for three months while they're waiting on their actual credentials
to come. Most of them die. A hospice patient has to be deemed three, six months or less
to be hospice. It takes three months to get their actual card from the state. You can
walk into a DMV and get your driver's license a temporary and what two weeks later get it
in the mail. Why is it so cumbersome just to get your OMMP card when we just bought
them that fancy new what million dollar system a couple years ago. The ACMM has been a toothless
committee. We need to be putting pressure on our governor and on our state people in
this building right here to listen to the ACMM. Listen to us. We are 76,000 strong.
We need to keep fighting. Never give up. Never lose hope. And remember where did all of that
marijuana come from that started legalization. It was grown by the farmers under the patient
program. Please talk to your local representatives. Be professional, be precise and always walk
the talk of love. Thank you.
